






















THE GLOBAL REFUGEE CRISIS








A Reference Handbook








Gil Loescher
Ann Dull Loescher








CONTEMPORARY WORLD ISSUES

















Santa Barbara, California 
Denver, Colorado 
Oxford, England






 




  



title
:
The Global Refugee Crisis : A Reference Handbook Contemporary World Issues


author
:
Loescher, Gil.; Loescher, Ann Dull.


publisher
:
ABC-CLIO


isbn10 | asin
:
0874367530


print isbn13
:
9780874367539


ebook isbn13
:
9780585020686


language
:
English


subject
 
Refugees, Refugees--Services for, Disaster relief.


publication date
:
1994


lcc
:
HV640.L625 1994eb


ddc
:
362.87


subject
:
Refugees, Refugees--Services for, Disaster relief.



















Copyright © 1994 Gil Loescher and Ann Dull Loescher








All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, except for the inclusion of brief quotations in a review, without prior permission in writing from the publishers.








Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data








Loescher, Gil.
The global refugee crisis : a reference handbook / Gil Loescher and
Ann Dull Loescher.








p. cm. (Contemporary world issues)
Includes bibliographical references and index.
1. Refugees. 2. Refugees-Services for. 3. Disaster
relief. I. Loescher, Ann Dull. II. Title. III. Series.








HV640.L625 994 362.87dc20
94-25097








ISBN 0-87436-753-0








00 99 98 97 96 
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2








ABC-CLIO, Inc. 
130 Cremona Drive, P.O. Box 1911 
Santa Barbara, California 93116-1911








This book is printed on acid-free paper. 
Manufactured in the United States of America






 

















This book is dedicated to refugees everywhere. 
We must remember they are all individuals like ourselves.






 












Page vii




Contents









Preface








xi








Acknowledgments








xiii








1








Overview








1








Who Is a Refugee?








2








International Organizations








5








Refugees and the UNHCR in a Changing World








6








The Dimensions of the Refugee Problem








7








Refugee Movements in the Post-Cold War Era








8








Challenges Confronting UNHCR and the International Community








10








Complex Emergencies








10








Assisting and Protecting Internally Displaced Persons








10








Repatriation and Reintegration








11








Asylum Crises in the West








12








Migration of People Worldwide








13








Organizational and Other Constraints Facing UNHCR








14








Extended Emergency Relief Care, 








14








Challenges of a Preventive Strategy, 








14








Financial Constraints, 








15








Challenges of Addressing Human Rights Violations








17








A Framework for Future Action








18








Establishing and Utilizing More Effective Early Warning Systems








18








Interagency Cooperation








20








Improving Overall UN Coordination








20






 












Page viii





Coordinating Relief and Development








21








Increasing Human Rights Monitoring and Enforcement








22








Providing Asylum and Stability








24








The Importance of American Leadership








25








A Final Note








26








2








Chronology








27








3








Biographical Sketches








41








Distinguished Refugees








41








Activists for Refugees








50








4








Facts, Statistics, and Legal Documents








61








Refugee Statistics








61








UNHCR Commissioners, Executive Committee Members, and Signatories








88








International Refugee Law








92








Other Significant Universal Refugee Instruments








149








Other Significant Regional Refugee Instruments








150








International Human Rights Instruments and Their Significance








152








Recent Significant Developments








155








Future Directions








157








5








Organizations and Government Agencies








159








International Organizations








159








U.S. Government Organizations








165








U.S. Resettlement Agencies








167








Aid and Information Organizations








170








6








Selected Print Resources








189








Principal Journals








189








Important Document Sources








193








Reference Works








194








Books








200








Reports








216






 












Page ix





7








Selected Nonprint Resources








221








Electronic Databases








221








Videotapes








223








Glossary








237








Acronyms of Organizations and Programs








245








Index








249








About the Authors








263






 












Page xi




Preface








IF ANYONE NEEDS TWO TERRIFYING EXAMPLES to illustrate the nature of today's refugee problem and the inadequacy of the current approach to dealing with this crisis, they can be found in Bosnia and Rwanda. In Bosnia, attempts by the United Nations to protect so-called safe areas call into question the very definition of the word safe. In Rwanda, the numbers alone tell the story: 2 million persons displaced, including over 1 million people who crossed into Zaire in one 48-hour period.








While those two examples happen to be the ones attracting the most headlines today, they are far from the only ones. Indeed, the 1990s represent a decade of displacement in which all regions of the world are experiencing forced population movements. Since the end of the Cold War, local wars and civil unrest in many regions of Africa, the Balkans, Southeast Asia, and the former Soviet Union have uprooted millions of people. International refugee issues are deeply embedded in the social, economic, and political conditions of our times and pose a range of difficult issues for the world community. The international community is ill-prepared to deal with the complexities of post-Cold War humanitarian issues. To be fully effective in managing these problems, the international system for protecting and assisting refugees will have to undertake major changes in its outlook, capabilities, and resource allocations, and the refugee issue will have to be factored into international political, economic, and security policies to a far greater extent than exists today.








As a result of rapid changes in international relationsin particular the end of the Cold War and the rise of internal conflicts, along with the merging of refugee issues with migration issues in the minds of both officials and the publica consensus is emerging, internationally and nationally, on the need for giving






 












Page xii




more attention to forced population movements. Despite the growing recognition that refugee movements are a force for change and conflict in the post-Cold War era, there is little systematic thinking about the refugee issue and about what the implications of the new era are for assistance and protection of refugees both nationally and worldwide.








This book is designed to describe and discuss the current controversy concerning the handling of the global refugee problem by the United States government and the international community. It (1) discusses who refugees are and the transformation in the character and duration of refugee movements worldwide; (2) describes the international system that has developed a number of institutions, a body of international law, and a set of solutions to protect and assist those forced to flee their countries of origin; (3) analyzes the causes and consequences of refugee movements both for refugees and the countries involved; and (4) discusses the future challenges refugee movements pose and the evolving strategies of response to this rapidly growing global problem.








The text provides readers with sufficient background information about the global refugee issue to permit them to contribute to the debate about what needs to be done to respond to this complex problem. The first three chapters provide a historical account of the refugee issue, outlining the global dimensions of the problem and the political and economic strategies needed to deal with the issue in the future, as well as giving some biographical sketches of famous refugees, both past and present, and important activists for refugees' rights. Chapter 4 provides the principal statistics and legal documents regarding refugees. Chapters 5 through 7 offer resources for those who wish to pursue the study of refugees in more detaila list of organizations already working on this issue and print and nonprint references on the topic. The book also includes a glossary of terms commonly used in the study of refugees and a listing of acronyms of the principal organizations and programs in the refugee field.






 












Page xiii




Acknowledgments








NUMEROUS ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDUALS HAVE ASSISTED us and provided us the information necessary in the preparation of this book. We are particularly grateful to the United States Committee for Refugees (USCR) in Washington, D.C., which provided the information for the directory of organizations in chapter 5 and for many of the statistics that appear in chapter 4. Tom Argent and Ginny Hamilton of USCR were especially helpful in this regard. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Geneva provided useful information on the chronology in chapter 2 and on electronic databases and videos in chapter 7. Both the UNHCR and the Secretariat for Inter-Governmental Consultations in Vienna also assisted with our compilation of statistics in chapter 4. We thank Robert DeVecchi of the International Rescue Committee, Philip Rudge of the European Council of Refugees, Arthur Helton of the Open Society Institute of the Soros Foundation, Beth Ferris of Church World Service, and Roger Winter of the USCR for providing biographical information for their entries in chapter 3. We gratefully acknowledge all of these organizations' and individuals' assistance and permission to reprint some of their material.








Finally, Joetta Schlabach of the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies at the University of Notre Dame typed two of these chapters and helped us a great deal with the handling of the statistical material. Linyu Sha of the Department of Government and International Studies at the University of Notre Dame provided some key research assistance.






 












Page 1




1 Overview








ON EVERY CONTINENT PEOPLE ARE BEING FORCED from their homes, their communities, and their countries because of persecution or violence. Almost on a daily basis we see paraded across our television screens women and children forced out of their villages and deported to faraway places, while men are herded into detention centers where they are tortured and starved. Such images graphically illustrate the daily reality of millions of people, caught up in the crosscurrents of war, revolution, and famine, who have been forced into exile.








From the mid-1970s to 1994 there was an alarming increase in refugees. The total rose from 2.8 million in 1976 to 8.2 million in 1980. By August 1994, there were almost 20 million refugees. In addition, there were an estimated 25 million displaced people inside their own countries. Adding their numbers to those of refugees means that, in a world population of 5.5 billion, approximately 1 in every 130 people on earth has been forced into flight.








There are fears that many more people could become displaced, since ethnic and religious tensions previously suppressed by totalitarian regimes or East-West competition have been unleashed, potentially leading to violence.








In the 1990s, refugee emergencies have included the former Yugoslavia, where the number of displaced people rose from half a million in 1991 to more than 4 million in 1994; Somalia, where hundreds of thousands of people became refugees in neighboring Kenya, Ethiopia, and Yemen as a result of vicious interclan






 












Page 2




conflict; Armenia and Azerbaijan, where more than 1 million people have been displaced by the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh; Tajikistan, where 60,000 people fled across borders and half a million have been uprooted by civil war between clans; Burma, where a quarter of a million Muslim refugees fled to poverty-stricken Bangladesh; Burundi and Rwanda, where well over 1 million refugees fled across borders because of intertribal war and mass slaughter; and Bhutan, where nearly 100,000 have fled ethnic strife.








It cannot be denied that a global refugee problem exists. In recent years, the international community has been confronted with one refugee emergency after another in rapid and sometimes overlapping succession. Refugee crises in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, the Balkans, and the former Soviet republics have strained the capacities of the United Nations almost to the breaking point. In particular, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the international community's principal institution for protecting and assisting refugees, has been stretched to the limit of its capacities.








Who Is a Refugee?








At a time when the numbers of refugees and asylum-seekers are growing rapidly, the question of precisely who is and who is not a refugee is one of considerable controversy. Presently, the principal international definition is the United Nations concept that was formulated in the immediate post-World War II period, largely in response to European refugee flows. According to the 1951 UN Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, a refugee is ''any person who, owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable, or owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country." Thus, the term refugee refers to a person who has fled across the physical borders of his homeland to seek refuge in another place and who, upon being granted refugee status, receives certain rights not available to other international migrants, including the right of resettlement and legal protection from deportation or forcible return to his






 












Page 3




country of origin (the so-called nonrefoulement protection). People requesting refugee status and seeking permanent settlement in a country to which they have fled are referred to as asylum-seekers. The UNHCR is mandated to oversee the implementation of the 1951 convention and offer protection to the world's 20 million refugees.








Apart from the narrow internationally agreed-upon definition, the term refugee has been widened in practice to cover a variety of people in diverse situations who need assistance and protection. The most notable of these expansions is found in the Convention on Refugee Problems in Africa, a regional instrument adopted by the Organization of African Unity in 1969. It includes people fleeing "external aggression, internal civil strife, or events seriously disturbing public order" in African countries. The Cartagena Declaration of 1984 covering Central American refugees also goes beyond the 1951 UN convention by including "persons who have fled their country because their lives, safety or freedom have been threatened by generalized violence, foreign aggression, internal conflicts, massive violation of human rights or other circumstances which have seriously disturbed public order."








These regional legal norms are in fact much more inclusive and in keeping with the actual causes of flight throughout the Third World than are the UN norms. Accordingly, over the past several decades UNHCR has interpreted its mandate to extend to people who have been forcibly displaced from their countries because of internal upheavals or armed conflicts. In recent years, however, there has been great resistance in the West to this pragmatic expansion of the refugee definition and of UNHCR's mandate. In most industrialized nations the 1951 definition is used for resettlement and asylum purposes, although groups of people at risk of death or grave harm from violence are often given temporary protection.








Although anyone uprooted because of exposure to violence and the denial of human rights is commonly referred to as a refugee, the definition of the 1951 UN convention is much more precise. By UN standards, the key criterion determining refugee status is persecution, which usually means a deliberate act of government against individuals. This excludes victims of general upheaval, insecurity, and oppression; victims of systemic economic deprivation; or people who have not crossed national






 












Page 4




frontiers to seek refuge. From the perspective of international law, a refugee is outside his home country and does not have the protection of his country of origin.








In addition to the variety of legal definitions for refugees, there are several other categories of uprooted people. For example, 2.4 million Palestinians are registered with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), whose mandate is limited geographically to Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, and the Israeli-occupied territories. There are also large numbers of people who are displaced within their own countries because of armed conflict and ethnic strife or because of forcible relocation by their governments. Many of them are victims of the same civil wars that sent refugees out of Angola, Mozambique, Cambodia, Guatemala, or Afghanistan, or they are victims of ethnic strife in Rwanda, Liberia, Ethiopia, Somalia, or throughout the Balkans or the former Soviet Union. Because internally displaced persons remain within their own country and do not cross international boundaries, they cannot be protected as refugees. In addition, there are those who have been refugees who voluntarily return to their countries of origin. Sometimes returnees go home under the auspices of UNHCR, from whom they receive assistance for a limited time, but more often returnees go back on their own without international sponsorship because they do not want public recognition as former refugees. There are many constraints on providing protection and assistance to returnees, however, especially when the conditions that generated the exodus continue to exist in the countries of origin.








Finally, there are those who leave their countries because of economic factors and who are considered to be economic migrants. These people do not qualify for UNHCR protection or assistance; however, in developing countries that have few resources and weak government structures, economic hardships are generally exacerbated by political violence. Because of the close relationship between political conflict and economic and social problems, it is sometimes difficult to distinguish between refugees and migrants. While refugees flee to save their lives and migrants flee to improve their economic prospects, to distinguish between them becomes extremely difficult when people flee from countries where poverty and violence are direct consequences of the political system. Since the late 1950s, Haitian people have fled a country impoverished






 












Page 5




by the corrupt and violent Duvalier family, and until September 1994 they fled again from the military regime that overthrew Jean Bertrand Aristide, the elected president of Haiti. The influx of Albanians into Italy in 1990-1991 continued even after the election of a democratic government in their homeland, demonstrating anew the complexity of the problem.








While the definition contained in the 1951 UN convention remains important as a statement of legal responsibility and international commitment to protect refugees, increasingly large numbers of politically coerced and displaced people do not fall within its strict definition. As a result, migrants who flee threatening circumstances that do not involve individual persecution have not been widely accepted as refugees. There is a growing perception in the industrialized world that these movements of people can no longer be handled adequately by uncoordinated responses on the part of receiving countries.








The stark fact that must be faced is that the world is witnessing a huge growth in forcibly displaced people. In terms of sheer numbers, nonconvention refugeesthose who flee civil wars, ethnic conflicts, and generalized violence in the Third World and Eastern Europeare a bigger problem for the international community than those who fall within the 1951 UN definition. Nonconvention refugees are not adequately protected by present international normsa situation that brings to question whether or not the current UN definition of refugee should be changed in order to respond to contemporary needs.








International Organizations








A number of international agencies exist to respond to refugee crises. Among these are the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR); the International Committee for the Red Cross, which assists people caught in conflicts; the World Food Program, which coordinates food aid to refugees; and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), which aids women and children. The United Nations Relief and Works Administration for Palestinian Refugees (UNRWA) aids Palestinians in the Middle East, and the International Organization for Migration arranges for the transportation of refugees resettled overseas and for the






 












Page 6




safe and humane return home of refugees and migrants from countries unable or unwilling to absorb them.








The international community also relies on a vast network of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), ranging from large international agencies to small organizations working in a single country, to offer assistance programs. As the implementing partners for the UNHCR, NGOs bear the brunt of delivering food and providing shelter, water, sanitation, and health care to refugees. Where funding is available, they also provide community outreach services and educational and skills programs.








Refugees and the UNHCR in a Changing World








Formally established in 1950 at the height of East-West confrontation, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) was initially charged with protecting and assisting people displaced in the aftermath of World War II and those fleeing communist persecution in Europe. From the 1960s until recently, however, the focus shifted away from Europe to the Third World. During the last 30 years, the majority of UNHCR's budget has been allocated for operations in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. While the assistance contributed by the international community has at times been substantial, the pressures created by the presence of large refugee populations and sudden mass exoduses in recent years have been enormous.








More than two-thirds of all international assistance is channelled through UNHCR. With a staff of about 4,000 people in over 100 countries and annual expenditures of approximately $1.5 billion, the UNHCR protects and assists refugees and works toward one of three durable solutions: (1) voluntary repatriation, (2) local integration, or (3) third-country resettlement.








The growth in numbers and the complexity of refugee flows in recent years have presented enormous challenges to UNHCR to plan, manage, and fund its worldwide network of protection and relief programs. It is increasingly asked to bear more responsibility and leadership, but with diminishing resources. Despite its size and budget, the UNHCR is chronically underfunded and understaffed. It serves twice the number of refugees as it did a decade ago, but the financial support for basic care and maintenance for refugees worldwide has remained virtually the same. Thus, the UNHCR has been in many cases unable to fulfill its mandate in






 












Page 7




recent years because it lacks the necessary financial resources and personnel.








The Dimensions of the Refugee Problem








For many reasonswar, famine, poverty, environmental degradation, and persecutiona large portion of humanity is now on the move. Most of this movement occurs in the developing world, although larger numbers of people are migrating both from the Third World to the developed world and from Eastern Europe to the West. To a large extent, states have had great difficulty coping with these massive flows of migration, which are having disruptive effects within both the sending and the receiving countries.








The magnitude of refugee flows in recent years has generated urgent concern throughout the world. Widely perceived as an unprecedented crisis, these flows have produced a mixture of humanitarian concern for the millions of people forced into exile and fear for the potential threat to the social, economic, and political stability of host states caused by streams of unwanted newcomers. States are struggling to strike a proper balance between the need to maintain control over their borders and the need to protect refugees who seek asylum within their borders.








As alarming as current numbers are, there is nothing new in the phenomenon of forced displacement. Explosions of political and ethnic violence, persecution, and pogroms have produced large-scale movements of refugees throughout history. Some previous global migrations have been comparatively much larger in scope than contemporary population movements. For example, during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries the intercontinental migrations from the Old World to the New World involved some 50 million people, many of whom were fleeing persecution and pogroms in Europe.








The growing recognition in the West of the refugee problem as a factor in international relations is, however, a phenomenon of only the last 70 years. This is because the twentieth century has produced the greatest number of refugees ever in history. Indeed, the twentieth century is, as the German novelist Heinrich Böll once remarked, "the century of refugees and prisoners." Millions of refugees were generated by World War I and the breakup






 












Page 8




of multinational empires in the early part of the century. World War II uprooted approximately 30 million civilians in Europe alone. The Cold War of the 1950s was marked by refugees fleeing the newly established communist regimes in Eastern Europe. The 1960s and 1970s witnessed new Third World refugee movements uprooted in the wake of anticolonial struggles and conflicts within newly independent states and by the economic migration of about 10 million guestworkers to Europe. The late 1970s and 1980s saw more massive refugee exoduses in the Third World with consequent spillover in the form of asylum-seekers in the industrialized world, and the 1990s have brought growing East-West migration and increasing South-North immigration pressures from regions on the southern peripheries of Europe and the United States. The refugee problem receives increasing international prominence due to the fact that policies affecting refugees are linked directly with the political and security interests of states.








Refugee Movements in the Post-Cold War Era








While violence and persecution have produced large-scale movements of refugees throughout history, there are many new and unique features to the contemporary refugee crisis.








Recent advances in communication and transportation have had a dramatic effect on the situation. Communications satellites transmit the reality of more prosperous and safer conditions in the West to the most impoverished and oppressive regions of the world, while making the West far more cognizant of worldwide suffering, the magnitude of the refugee problem, and its responsibility to the rest of humankind. The greater availability of long-range transportation facilitates transcontinental movements and makes it possible for people to reach distant countries where they can seek asylum and try to improve their situation.








The 1990s are years of fundamental political and economic changes in the international system. This fact is reflected by mass movements of people, which in turn affect political, economic, and strategic developments worldwide. Refugee movements played a key role in bringing down the Berlin Wall and in bringing about the unification of the two Germanies, thus generating the most significant transformation in international relations since World






 












Page 9




War II. Early in the post-Cold War era, refugee movements precipitated external intervention in Iraqi affairs on behalf of the Kurds. In the early 1990s, maltreatment of minorities, forced displacement, famine, and environmental damage in the Middle East, the Horn of Africa, Southern Africa, Liberia, Burma, and most recently parts of the former Yugoslavia and the ex-Soviet Union have preoccupied international leaders.








The end of the Cold War has also revealed the scope and intensity of specific local tensions around the world. The most common form of warfare in the developing world and Eastern Europe in the 1990s is internal conflict, fueled by the increasing availability of modern weaponry, sharp socioeconomic inequalities, and human rights abuses. Contemporary refugee movements are likely to be the result of ethnic, communal, and religious conflicts. Ethnic antagonisms between Armenians and Azeris, Hutus and Tutsis, Tamils and Sinhalese, Serbs and Croatians and Muslims, and Palestinians and Israelis illustrate the local roots of many refugee exoduses.








Internal wars have been fought not only by military means but by preventing international aid from reaching people living in conflict areas. In such situations, the international community is frequently unable to assist or intervene, and the ability of governments or international organizations to influence the behavior of warring factions is limited or virtually nil. For example, in the former Yugoslavia, UNHCR staff not only distribute relief but also try to restrain ethnic cleansing and protect human rights. In the face of cynical manipulation by all the protagonists to the conflict, however, these humanitarian efforts have been stopgap measures only. One of the principal lessons of the conflict in Bosnia is that the humanitarian mandate of UNHCR cannot be viewed as a satisfactory substitute for wider-ranging political solutions.








While refugee flows frequently occur as the result of persecution at the hands of brutal rulers or because of indiscriminate violence and the collapse of civil authority, external powers can significantly influence the factors that generate them. By arming past and present dictators like Saddam Hussein of Iraq, Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia, Pol Pot of Cambodia, Mohammed Siad Barre of Somalia, and Mengistu Haile Mariam of Ethiopia, among others, outside powers help prolong instability, exacerbate nationality conflicts, divert scarce resources into militaristic activities, and increase repression, thereby multiplying the numbers of refugees. Only when governments and international organizations address






 












Page 10




the refugee issue in its international political context will the problem be given sufficient priority and resources by policymakers.








Challenges Confronting UNHCR and the International Community








The rapidly changing international context and the highly politicized nature of refugee problems are likely both to determine the humanitarian needs of the 1990s and to define the limitations under which UNHCR will have to operate.








Complex Emergencies








Refugee crises are complex emergencies, combining political instability, ethnic tensions, armed conflict, economic collapse, and the disintegration of civil society. Refugee movements frequently spill over borders and aggravate existing problems, such as environmental damage or severe food shortages. Rather than being confined to single countries, refugee emergencies often affect entire regions, such as the Horn of Africa or the Balkans. In recent years, few refugee crises have been fully resolved. Consequently, resources from one crisis often have not been made available for use in the next.








Assisting and Protecting Internally Displaced Persons








A critical weakness of the international humanitarian system is that at present there is no special international organization to protect and assist the world's 25 million internally displaced persons. While there is a clear mandate for the protection and the provision of humanitarian assistance to refugees, there is a lack of clarity within existing international instruments regarding the allocation of responsibilities and mechanisms for addressing the immediate needs of the internally displaced. There is no adequate body of international law to regulate their treatment by governments. Thus, internally displaced people are unprotected precisely because they do not become refugees, remaining instead within the boundaries of their own countries.








Nevertheless, in the post-Cold War period, the UNHCR is being asked to assume new roles within a de facto expanded man-






 












Page 11




date in an increasing number of internal conflicts. In the former Yugoslavia, it is the leading UN agency for humanitarian assistance both to displaced people and to besieged populations, and it is a partner with UN peacekeeping troops on the ground. In northern Kenya and Tajikistan, it has launched cross-border operations with the intention of stabilizing populations at home so refugee flight is unnecessary. In these cases, and in many others around the world, the responses demanded of UNHCR extend far beyond its traditional humanitarian role of working only with people who have crossed international borders to seek asylum. The challenge of assisting and protecting people within their own countries raises difficult questions concerning UNHCR's mandate and fundamental principles.








Repatriation and Reintegration








The immediate short-term issues of the refugee problem include dealing with the consequences of refugee exoduses and determining when and how repatriation and reintegration are most appropriate. Even as new refugee crises emerge, there remain numerous long-standing refugee populations in the Third Worldsome dating back 10 years, others 20 or more years. Unlike earlier forced migrations that were ultimately resolved by repatriation or overseas resettlement, during the 1980s Third World refugees found only temporary asylum in neighboring states. During most of the 1980s, the majority of Third World refugee populations languished in camps or survived illegally without any hope of a permanent place of settlement or eventual return home.








Although the international community is still dealing with immediate problems of handling sudden mass outflows of refugees and problems of reception in countries of asylum, there is much greater attention today on repatriation and even returns to situations of widespread conflict. About 2.5 million refugees returned home in 1993. If large numbers of refugees continue to repatriate in the coming years, the focus of concern must inevitably shift from repatriation to more long-standing reintegration and development. It is becoming increasingly evident that in countries such as Afghanistan, Cambodia, Ethiopia, and Mozambique one of the preconditions for successful returns is development aid and reintegration assistance aimed at alleviating poverty in countries of origin. Without careful reintegration and reconciliation,






 












Page 12




returning refugees will compete for scarce developmental resources, which, in turn, might result in fierce political and economic competition with local populations that did not flee.








Repatriation and reconstruction raise new, difficult questions for UNHCR. For how long should UNHCR seek to provide protection to returning refugees, particularly in situations of continuing conflict? Does UNHCR have the capacity to engage in human rights monitoring in countries of origin? How much and what kinds of assistance are required for returnees to reestablish themselves successfully? Should international economic development agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) provide refugee-targeted development assistance from the early stages of a repatriation? Should assistance be extended not only to returning refugees but also to needy local populations? Although answers to these questions have yet to be found, they are of critical importance if UNHCR is to respond effectively in the future.








Going beyond traditional refugee emergency assistance to facilitating reintegration of returnees requires the development of new or different competencies on the part of international agencies. A focus on reintegration will involve rethinking the roles and mandates of international organizations and NGOs; the shifting of their operational priorities from receiving countries to countries of return; and closer cooperation between development, human rights, and refugee agencies than has hitherto been the case.








Asylum Crises in the West








While in the Third World the contemporary situation is characterized by refugee-generating ethnic conflicts and repatriations, the numbers of asylum-seekers in the West rose from 90,000 in 1983 to about 825,000 in 1992. The attitudes of receiving countries, many of which have relied on migrants to fill a variety of labor needs in the past, have become increasingly negative and have spawned xenophobia, racism, and a deterioration in community relations. As a result, the advanced industrialized states are increasingly reluctant to let refugees enter their countries to apply for political asylum. To date, the political debate in the North concerning asylum-seekers and migrants has largely been informed by governmental concerns about border controls, not by






 












Page 13




human rights concerns. In Eastern and Central Europe, the collapse of communism has greatly increased the numbers of asylumseekers and migrants and has opened up the possibility of mass migration from the East. Refugees have become an increasingly contentious issue in the post-Cold War era, particularly in Europe.








Confusions abound, both at the institutional level and in the minds of the general public, regarding definitions, standards of treatment of nonnationals, and methods for the management of the movement, reception, resettlement, or return of refugees. In shaping policy responses to the asylum crisis, many Western leaders have been prone to being influenced by extremists who seek to exploit anti-immigrant feelings and tensions. As a result, the refugee problem has reached such a critical point in some Western countries that the very institution of asylum is being threatened. What is required in today's situation is for political leaders to articulate and guide public opinion regarding the complex facets of the refugee problem and the shortand long-range measures that might help address its various aspects.








Migration of People Worldwide








It is important to recognize that the nature of migratory movements is changing worldwide. The refugee problem is a part of the emerging global crisis of mass migration, which is generated by economic, political, and social changes. The growing interdependence of the economies of nation statesincluding the creation of regional free-trade zones, the transnational impact of the world's communication, media, and transport systems, and the ever-increasing gap between poor and rich countrieshas caused millions of people from less developed countries to seek opportunities in other parts of the world. The numbers of sending and receiving countries throughout the world continue to expand, and social networks, or bridgeheads, support migration flows once they have begun. The number of people seeking entry has increased not only in the advanced industrialized states of North America and Europe but also in the newly industrialized states of Asia and the oil-producing states of the Middle East. The contemporary global migration situation is considered by the United Nations to be one of the top five issues of the 1990s.






 












Page 14




Organizational and Other Constraints Facing UNHCR








Extended Emergency Relief Care








Today, UNHCR is concerned primarily with meeting the immediate needs of refugees and internally displaced people who live under conditions that are precarious, difficult, and frequently dangerous. For example, UNHCR has committed approximately one-quarter of its staff and one-third of its total funds worldwide to providing assistance and protection to over 4 million people in the former Yugoslavia. UNHCR is increasingly concerned that it will be swamped by its involvement in chronic internal conflicts, such as in Bosnia, and that the political interest of donor governments to continue funding such protracted operations will eventually wane, leaving UNHCR with limited resources to assist dependent civilian populations.








The priority given to extended emergency relief aid in prolonged refugee situations has swallowed up most of UNHCR's resources, and it has also made it more difficult to achieve traditional solutions. Voluntary repatriation is not a realistic solution until political circumstances in the country of origin have changed. Local integration is virtually impossible in situations of mass influx where land and other resources are scarce and where ethnic or religious tensions exist. Resettlement in third countries is likewise a solution for only a very small percentage of the world's refugeesless than 1 percent of the world's refugees were resettled during 1993. Faced with economic difficulties and growing popular xenophobia, Western nations are much more reluctant to admit large numbers of people who are not easily assimilable. There is a need to go further than traditional solutions to improve conditions in countries of origin so the majority of refugees can either remain at home or repatriate in safety while at the same time preserving the most fundamental principle of refugee protectionthe right of refugees to flee their countries, to seek asylum from persecution in other countries, and not to be returned into the hands of their persecutors.








Challenges of a Preventive Strategy








In the 1990s, the international community must place a greater emphasis on addressing the underlying causes of the refugee






 












Page 15




problem through a preventive policy that includes early warning, preventive diplomacy and on ensuring respect for human rights. Recently, UNHCR has adopted a comprehensive protection strategy designed both to address the root causes of refugee flows, with the aim of preventing the underlying conditions that force people to flee, and to reduce or contain refugee flows that have already begun, with the aim of providing immediate protection and assistance and obviating the need for further displacement.








This shift to a preventive strategy, however, cannot be accomplished easily or in a short time. Involvement in internal conflicts requires skills and competencies that many UNHCR staff do not now possess. In situations such as in Bosnia or Somalia, UNHCR is using techniques closely akin to the work of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), but without the special training, skills, and experience of ICRC staff. While in countries of asylum the UNHCR has a well-established history of providing protection and assistance to refugees, in countries undergoing civil war the internally displaced are often viewed as the enemy, and UNHCR staff are seen as sympathizers. The UNHCR finds itself working with opposition groups and guerrilla forces as well as with recognized governments. Under extremely stressful and dangerous conditions, UNHCR staff now engage in activities that include protecting civilians against reprisals and forced displacement, relocating and evacuating civilians from conflict areas, and assisting besieged populations who choose not to move from their homes. This is done without any firm institutional and legal basis. For many UNHCR officials and staff these are entirely new activities. If UNHCR is to respond effectively to these new situations of internal displacement, there is an urgent need both to reorganize its staffing, training, and operations to reflect the new roles and to give it the necessary resources and mandate to do the job.








Financial Constraints








One of the most significant weaknesses of UNHCR is its dependence on voluntary contributions to carry out new programs. Apart from a modest annual contribution from the UN Regular Budget toward administrative expenses, all of UNHCR's resources depend on voluntary contributions. Its assistance activities are divided broadly into General and Special Programs. Each year, UNHCR's Executive Committee approves a General Program budget, which comprises activities financed through the






 












Page 16




annual program as well as the Emergency Fund, and appeals to all UN members to provide the resources needed to cover the program year. The primary allocation of these resources goes to the traditional areas of the high commissioner's competence: emergency relief, voluntary repatriation, integration into host societies, and resettlement.








In addition to its General Program budget, UNHCR, at the request of the secretary-general or the United Nations General Assembly, undertakes Special Programs that include major new and unforeseen emergency operations (such as in Bosnia or Rwanda) and transportation and rehabilitation assistance to refugees and displaced people who have returned to their homes (such as in Mozambique). Special Programs are the subject of specific fund-raising appeals to interested governments and are financed from trust funds constructed with particular purposes and conditions. Thus, UNHCR must raise funds for each new refugee problem.








The 1990s have presented UNHCR with several new refugee emergencies, and its overall expenditures have therefore grown significantly. In 1991, as a result of emergency relief operations in northern Iraq and the Horn of Africa, total voluntary funds expenditure amounted to $862.5 million, an increase of almost 60 percent over 1990. In 1992 and 1993, new refugee and humanitarian crises in Bangladesh, Central Africa, the Horn of Africa, Southern Africa, and the former Yugoslavia, as well as continued responsibilities in northern Iraq and new repatriation programs in Cambodia, Ethiopia, and Mozambique, pushed UNHCR expenditures to about $1.5 billion annually. The sum for 1994 will be at least that high.








While the amounts for Special Programs have increased substantially, in recent years, contributions by donor countries to UNHCR's core activities (General Programs) have not kept pace with the ever-growing numbers of refugees. Indeed, the financial support levels for General Programs have remained virtually unchanged during the past decade. The lack of General Program funds has threatened to reduce or postpone repatriation programs, cancel needed improvements in refugee facilities, and force UNHCR to make cuts in certain nutrition and education programs.








The flow of assistance from donor governments is neither reliable nor always in the most appropriate form. Funding is often earmarked for particular uses; it is frequently provided late and






 












Page 17




does not allow sufficiently for operational flexibility. In addition, the funding of humanitarian operations has often been infused with a strong political element. During the Cold War, for example, Western donor governments often funded refugee programs to express condemnation of communist governments whose repressive policies forced their citizens to flee their countries. Today, however, refugee situations increasingly are seen as local or regional problems of little, if any, foreign policy or security concern to major donor governments. Without compelling strategic and ideological motivations, funding for refugee operations is in danger of being cut back in favor of the domestic priorities of industrialized states.








Challenges of Addressing Human Rights Violations








A final organizational constraint that makes preventive action difficult for UNHCR is that the root causes of contemporary refugee situations require political intervention against governments that violate human rights, preferably before people need to flee. For the most part, UN institutions have been unable or unwilling either to prevent human rights violations or to punish those responsible. In some measure, this is because prevention of human rights abuses depends on overcoming the barrier of national sovereignty, something no international organization has yet managed to accomplish consistently. As it is presently structured, UNHCR does not have the capability to politically intervene against governments that violate human rights. The UNHCR was designed to appear nonpolitical and strictly humanitarian in order to gain permission to work in host countries and secure funding from donor governments. UNHCR officials thus avoid raising political questions for fear of overstepping their mandate or damaging relations with sensitive governments, many of whom would consider such intervention as an interference in their internal affairs.








Hindered both by its dependence on voluntary contributions to carry out its programs and its need to obtain the acquiescence of host governments, UNHCR alone cannot resolve the global refugee problem. A comprehensive solution requires efforts going well beyond the scope of humanitarian organizations. International and regional peace, security, human rights, and economic structures must be strengthened with broader mandates and financial support to become more constructive interlocutors.






 












Page 18




A Framework for Future Action








Refugee emergencies of the post-Cold War era have highlighted the fact that combating the causes of forced migration cannot proceed solely within the confines of international humanitarian organizations. There is a need for a better interface between relief agencies and political and security operations, on the one hand, and between emergency relief, development, and human rights mechanisms on the other. A multidimensional strategy to refugee crises must involve practically the entire UN system, as well as regional organizations and NGOs, and it requires enhancing these organizations' capacities to defuse, deter, and mediate incipient crises before they may need more serious and costly trans-sovereign intervention. The United Nations must be able to respond more quickly and effectively in order to address humanitarian needs in a growing number of emergency situations. Prevention is itself a form of intervention to stop a major crisis from expanding.








The end of the Cold War gives the international community a unique opportunity to lay the foundations of an action program that includes the elements outlined below.








Establishing and Utilizing More Effective Early Warning Systems








Early information on impending crises is critical not only for possible preventive action but also for effective and timely humanitarian responses and adequate preparedness. Establishing an effective monitoring body within the United Nations that would alert the secretary-general, the emergency relief coordinator, and the Security Council to potential conflicts and refugee emergencies could provide an early warning mechanism. The UN system should be broadly mobilized to provide timely warnings. Members of the monitoring body would include UN officials, NGO representatives, and governments.








For example, the capability and mandate of the United Nations Centre for Human Rights needs to be strengthened to enable it to monitor and collect accurate and up-to-date human rights information, identify situations that have the potential to produce mass refugee flows, and bring these to the attention of the international community. Furthermore, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights could assign its Sub-Commission






 












Page 19




on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities to monitor the treatment of ethnic and religious minorities and to alert the secretary-general when action is needed. Similarly, the early warning capabilities of UNHCR and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) should be bolstered, and full support should be extended to initiatives aimed toward sharing such information at interagency levels.








Potentially among the most important new instruments added to the capacities of the United Nations is its ability to send fact-finding missions to defuse disputes and prevent major crises from expanding. Fact-finding missions are likely to play important roles at the early stages of conflict development and may prevent the misunderstandings that escalate conflict and result in more rigid positions. Observers in the field can also serve as a deterrent for those considering actions that cause forcible displacement. Nongovernmental organizations, such as Amnesty International or Helsinki Watch, may in some instances be more successful than UN monitors in collecting information and bringing human and minority rights abuses to the attention of the international community. It is not enough, however, for monitors to be in place and for information about potential refugee movements to be widely availablepolitical obstacles frequently must be overcome to enable the relevant international and regional organizations to react in time to minimize suffering and problems of insecurity.








Early warning programs must be connected to decision-making and response strategies both in governments and in relief, development, and human rights organizations. Moreover, in many recent refugee crises, information about impending conflicts and mass migrations was available and well known in advance, but there was no willingness to act upon it. In exYugoslavia and in Somalia, for instance, international agencies and analysts had accurately predicted what would happen well before the disasters unfolded, but there existed no mechanisms or institutions for averting conflicts or for dealing effectively and rapidly with these crises at a time when they were still manageable. Unless trigger mechanisms for prompt action regarding conflicts and refugee problems are established, and unless existing tools of diplomacy, human rights, and conflict resolution are reinforced, any measures that might be taken to prepare for future refugee flows are likely to be of limited use. The value of such measures depends largely on the willingness of states and






 












Page 20




international organizations to take the necessary concerted preventive action.








Interagency Cooperation








Interagency cooperation is the key to a more effective response to the problems of displacement. If UNHCR hopes to ensure cooperation in achieving a solution to displacement and phasing out the political source of such operations in the future, it must continue to work at improving coordination with other international, regional, and nongovernmental agencies, particularly in strategic planning and in making legal and institutional arrangements with other agencies charged with responding to refugees.








Improving Overall UN Coordination








Making the system work better requires a more effective division of labor among those responding to the humanitarian, political, and security dimensions of internal conflicts. The UN General Assembly took an important first step in December 1991 by creating the Office of Emergency Relief Coordinator, charged with providing a focal pointin government, intergovernmental, and nongovernmental organization communicationduring UN emergency relief operations. In early 1992, Jan Eliasson, the emergency relief coordinator, became the first under secretary-general in the newly formed UN Department of Humanitarian Affairs (DHA). The creation of the DHA was an essential step in clarifying and assigning responsibilities to UN agencies in complex emergencies. This is particularly apparent in situations where mandates overlap or where no entity has a clear mandate to act; in making quick decisions on the best coordinating mechanisms to respond to humanitarian emergencies at the field level; and in negotiating access for these agencies without waiting for a formal government request. Donor states influential in creating the DHA envision it gathering data and managing information, mobilizing resources and orchestrating field activities, negotiating a framework of action with political authorities, and providing overall leadership to humanitarian aid efforts.








Unfortunately, in the past two years the vision has not been realized. Lack of adequate staff in the field, a rapid succession of humanitarian crises in the post-Cold War period, and incompletely established and largely untested mechanisms for interagency coordination have been problematic for DHA, leaving it






 












Page 21




wholly unprepared to assume its intended leadership role in most of the recent emergencies. Perhaps the greatest difficulty confronting DHA is that specialized agencies such as UNHCR possess a high degree of constitutional autonomy and consistently resist any attempt by DHA to impose strong authority over their actions in humanitarian emergencies. If DHA's presence is to lead to improvements in the response capacity of the United Nations, the significance of its coordinating role must be recognized by UN HCR and other agencies. DHA must also be equipped both politically and financially to undertake its assigned tasks effectively.








Coordinating Relief and Development








Closer coordination between UNDP and UNHCR represents a key solution to situations involving refugees, returnees, and the internally displaced. Cooperation between these agencies already takes place in joint projects aimed at assisting a variety of displaced groups in Central America, Mozambique, and Cambodia. In the early 1990s, UNHCR and UNDP also established joint management structures to create preventive zones and cross-mandate programs to prevent displacement and to stabilize border areas in the Horn of Africa.








Although there have been greater efforts at UNDP-UNHCR coordination in field operations, far more effective interagency planning, consultation, and implementation are required. Institutional constraints inhibit closer cooperation between the two agencies. The UNHCR is not a development agency, and although it can be a catalyst in initiating development-oriented assistance, the UNDP is more suited to the task. Unfortunately, in most countries humanitarian or emergency relief aid is administratively and programmatically divorced from developmental concerns. Thus a ''development gap" exists between short-term humanitarian relief assistance and long-term development. UNHCR-UNDP joint projects have attempted to fill this gap in Central America, the Horn of Africa, and Indochina, where there are large returnee and displaced populations, but because these projects have been small in size and of a limited nature they have only partially filled the gap between immediate assistance and longer-term development. The task of the overall rehabilitation of these communities must be carried out by UNDP or other UN agencies that can more appropriately deal with reconstruction and development. This requires a full transfer of responsibility from UNHCR to UNDP






 












Page 22




after the immediate emergency relief phase is overagain, an idea that UNDP consistently resists because it views itself as having a development purpose without even a partial focus on emergency situations.








Increasing Human Rights Monitoring and Enforcement








Greater development assistance alone is not enough to create safe conditions for refugees; international cooperation must also ensure democratization and respect for human rights. Neither the enforcement of good governance or respect for human rights, however, fall within UNHCR's domain. The existing UN human rights machinery needs to be strengthened and applied more effectively to deal with refugees, returnees, and the internally displaced, because it is integral to the success of UN peacemaking.








In recent years, the UN human rights system has demonstrated its potential capabilities to respond quickly to a select number of human rights emergencies involving the internally displaced. In 1992, it called an unprecedented meeting of the UN Commission on Human Rights and appointed a special rapporteur to investigate human rights abuses of minority populations in Bosnia and to make recommendations to the Security Council. Similarly, an incriminating UN report on human rights violations in Iraq, including the alleged forced deportation and murder of the Shi'ite population by the Iraqi army, provided humanitarian justification for the establishment of an air exclusion zone over southern Iraq.








At the same time, the United Nations Centre for Human Rights, through its Advisory Services, has worked on a number of UN peacekeeping or peace-enforcement missions, providing significant technical assistance and cooperation to the UN human rights presence in the field in areas such as El Salvador, Somalia, and Cambodia. These actions underscore the potentially key role of the UN human rights machinery, the growing involvement of the Security Council in humanitarian matters, and the recognition that the promotion and protection of the human rights of refugees, returnees, and the internally displaced are an integral part of UN peacemaking.








At present the UN human rights program is grossly understaffed and underfunded. The Advisory Services section of the Centre for Human Rights, for example, has an annual budget of approximately $700,000. This is a minuscule sum in view of both






 












Page 23




the massive amounts being spent on relief and peacekeeping operations and the potential of the Advisory Services section to strengthen civil society, to promote democratic and pluralistic institutions and procedures, and thereby to prevent human rights abuses and mass displacements.








If the United Nations hopes to respond more effectively to the refugee crisis, it must strengthen its capacity to monitor developments in human rights issues. The creation of the post of UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in late 1993 was a step in this direction; however, a greater protection role in the field should be granted to UN human rights personnel. In the short term, the Centre for Human Rights can strengthen its coverage in the field by the continued expansion of its advisory services and technical cooperation. In addition, by offering services such as training judges, strengthening electoral commissions, establishing ombudsmen, training prison staff, and advising governments on constitutions and legislation regarding national minorities and human rights, the Centre for Human Rights is likely to be more successful in its activities and less threatening to governments than in more straightforward, fieldwork-oriented human rights monitoring.








In recent years, there has been much discussion about the creation of special human rights machinery for the internally displaced. At its 1993 session, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights reappointed the special representative on the internally displaced to monitor mass displacements of people, to collect information on violations of their human rights, and to help to sustain a positive dialogue toward achieving solutions with governments of the country of origin. The special representative must be given proper political support and funding, however, to carry out his tasks effectively. A General Assembly resolution confirming the role and mandate of the special representative is now required to institutionalize this office further. A significant first step toward trying to deal with the problem would be to designate a permanent representative for the internally displaced. This representative could undertake fact-finding missions, intercede with governments, embark on activities that strengthen institutions for sustaining democracy and civil society, publish reports, and bring violations to the attention of human rights bodies and the Security Council.








Recently, there have been attempts to create closer links between UNHCR and the human rights organs and activities of the UN system. In 1992, for example, the Centre for Human Rights






 












Page 24




and UNHCR drafted a memorandum of understanding so human rights information collected by UNHCR could be forwarded to the Centre for Human Rights. At the end of 1992, the two agencies established a joint working group to study mechanisms and approaches for enhanced and continuous collaboration. Such consultation should be strengthened to ensure that displacements emanating from human rights violations are brought to the attention of the Commission on Human Rights and that the work of the centre's Advisory Services section adequately addresses human rights issues associated with refugee movements and internal displacements.








Providing Asylum and Stability








The refugee crises in ex-Yugoslavia, Somalia, Haiti, and numerous other places and the reluctance of states to open their borders to people who are forcibly driven from their homes and subjected to murder, physical abuse, and starvation illustrate the vital importance of maintaining the principle of asylum. The major lesson we can learn from past efforts to deal with refugee problems is that building walls is no answer to those who feel compelled to move. The need to assure asylum to refugees is critical to maintaining human rights protection worldwide. The capacity of Western countries to improve prospects for granting asylum in the Third World depends on the fairness and generosity of their own policies in the heart of Europe and in the Caribbean and on the assistance they provide to others.








A generous commitment to asylum is not simply a matter of charity or burden-sharing; it is also a matter of regularizing and controlling large numbers of people whose irregular situation creates interstate tensions and regional instability. The success of economic liberalism and political pluralism in the new democracies of Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, and the former Soviet Union is of decisive importance, not only in averting future refugee and migrant flows but also in the political realm. Unduly restrictionist Western policies would lead to more isolation and deprivation in those countries forced to play host to rejected refugees and migrants.








Liberalizing domestic regimes and economic systems is scarcely possible without free movement of people, goods, and ideas. No single international development is likely to be more successful in improving economic growth in developing countries






 












Page 25




and Eastern Europe (thereby reducing economic incentives for emigration) than trade liberalization aimed at reducing economic disparities between countries in the South and North and the East and West. An angry, excluded world outside the West would inevitably give rise to conditions in which extremist and aggressive groups and governments can emerge and pose new political and security threats. Dealing effectively with refugee movements both at home and abroad through a combination of generous asylum policies and preventive programs in aid, trade, and human rights diplomacy is, therefore, in the interest of the industrialized states and coincides with their search for long-term global stability.








The Importance of American Leadership








Never before has it been so appropriate to launch a series of bold initiatives to deal with national and international policies and practices toward refugees. Although the leadership of the UNHCR is crucial, it is not enough. The president of the United States and other political leaders also hold key assets in any serious effort to strengthen the UN refugee system, and UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali must be prepared to proceed with imagination and political courage to invigorate multilateral mechanisms. These initiatives would draw attention to the serious deterioration in norms and proper conduct that has occurred in some states with respect to the treatment of citizens and refugees. They would attempt to deal with the causes of refugee flows rather than with the consequences.








The United Nations is still the only body capable of managing many of the complex global problems of the post-Cold War era. The international community needs to take advantage of both the structural and technical reforms that have occurred within the UN system and the higher expectations for the United Nations that now exist. Events in Iraq, in ex-Yugoslavia, and in Somalia, however, have demonstrated that the United Nations is not a separate entity capable of imposing order by itself, nor is it capable of achieving success in every endeavor. The United Nations is the sum of its member states, and U.S. and Western leadership in invigorating multilateral programs is a key factor if the United Nations is to achieve optimum results. The United States is still the only nation whose leadership most other nations are willing to follow, and it is the country most capable of setting up all sorts of measures to direct international efforts toward a constructive






 












Page 26




goal. Therefore, American leadership is vital in galvanizing collective efforts to resolve many of the complex humanitarian problems of the post-Cold War era. Without active U.S. involvement, the international community would be limited to reactive damagecontrol measures in the event of humanitarian crises. A failure by the United States and its allies to increase the capacities of the United Nations at this time would almost inevitably lead to a breakdown in international security, to costly military interventions to restore order, and to further needless drains on aid programs to deal with war-caused famines or refugee movements in the future. Not since 1945 has the United States and the international community been presented with such an opportunity to make substantial progress on many political and humanitarian issues. That opportunity should now be seized.








A Final Note








The time has come to broaden the scope of approach to the refugee problem to the larger agenda for peace and security in the post-Cold War world. Generosity and humanitarian action are still essential, but they alone are insufficient to deal with today's global refugee crisis. The time cannot be too distant when governments and people in the West will become profoundly tired of refugee emergencies, and the consequences of our compassion fatigue will be dehumanizing to us all. What is required is not only rededication to some fundamental values regarding asylum and human rights protection but also a reorientation of policy that more effectively addresses the abuses, violence, and social inequities that cause forced migration.






 












Page 27




2 Chronology








REFUGEES HAVE EXISTED FOR AS LONG as humankind has lived in organized groups where intolerance and persecution have been prominent; however, refugees have only become an issue of international concern during the twentieth century. Organized international efforts to assist and protect refugees began in 1921 when the League of Nations appointed the first high commissioner for refugees. The following chronology provides a listing of the major events in the development of the global refugee problem and in the international community's response to the issue during the past 70 years.









1914-
1919



Millions of people are displaced and made stateless in Europe and the Middle East as a result of World War I and the breakup of the Hapsburg, Romanov, Ottoman, and Hohenzollern empires.1921The League of Nations appoints Fridtjof Nansen, a Norwegian, as the first high commissioner for refugees. 




Over 1 million Russians become refugees as a result of the collapse of czarist Russia, the Russian Civil War, the RussoPolish War, and the Soviet famine.



1922The Graeco-Turkish War of 1922 displaces more than 1 million people. Following the war, Nansen negotiates the exchange of populations between Greece and Turkey, and, later, between Greece and Bulgaria.


 












Page 28





1931



After the death of Nansen, the International Nansen Office for Refugees is created.1933The Nazis come to power in Germany. 




The office of the High Commissioner for Refugees Coming from Germany is established outside of the League of Nations framework. After Germany leaves, the High Commissioner for Refugees comes under the auspices of the League of Nations and remains so until 1938. 








The Convention Relating to the International Status of Refugees (covering Russian, Armenian, Turkish, Assyrian, and Assyro-Chaldean refugees) is signed and ratified.



1935The Nuremberg Laws, which discriminate against Jews, are passed in Germany.1936Conflict breaks out in Spain between Republicans and Fascists. During the next several years, over 400,000 Spanish Republicans take refuge in France.1938In a night of violence, Kristallnacht, Jews are attacked and murdered in Germany. 




President Franklin D. Roosevelt calls together an international refugee conference at Evian-les-Bains concerning European Jews. 








As a result of the conference at Evian-les-Bains, the Intergovernmental Committee on Refugees (IGCR) is established to discuss the fate of Jews with the German government. 








The Convention Concerning the Status of Refugees Coming from Germany is signed and ratified.



1939The High Commissioner for Refugees under the Protection of the League of Nations is created, merging the International Nansen Office with the High Commissioner for Refugees Coming from Germany. 




World War II begins in Europe. Twenty to 30 million people will be displaced as a consequence of the war.






 












Page 29





1940



Nazis begin deporting German Jews to Poland.1941Nazis adopt the "Final Solution" (extermination of the Jewish population) as state policy. As a result, approximately 6 million Jews are murdered as well as huge numbers of Gypsies, other minorities, and political dissidents.1943The United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA) is created to provide postwar reconstruction, but it becomes involved with relief for displaced persons and war victims and their repatriation. UNRRA repatriates millions of East Europeans and Soviet citizens, many of them forcibly.




The American Council for Voluntary Agencies in Foreign Service (ACVA) is established as the main umbrella organization for refugee voluntary agencies in the United States (now called InterAction).



1946The International Refugee Organization (IRO) is established. IRO resettles well over 1 million displaced persons overseas Between 1946 and 1952.1947The partition of India unleashes the outflow of 14 million Hindus and Muslims from India and Pakistan.1948Conflict in Palestine and the creation of the state of Israel result in the expulsion and flight of some 700,000 Palestinians from their homelands. 




The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) is created to provide Assistance to displaced Palestinians. 








The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is approved by the United Nations.



1950Conflict breaks out in Korea, where millions of people are Displaced. The United Nations Korean Reconstruction Agency (UNKRA) is established to assist Korean refugees. 




On 14 December, Resolution 428 (V) of the United Nations General Assembly provides for the creation of the United






 












Page 30





1950 cont.



Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Resolution 429 (V) calls for a conference of plenipotentiaries to draw up a convention on refugees.1951On 1 January, UNHCR starts operations. At the time there are roughly 1.5 million refugees in the worldmainly in Europe, but also in Asia (Hong Kong and Macau) and in Latin America. 




On 28 July, the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees is adopted in Geneva. 








The Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration is established (now called International Organization for Migration).



1954UNHCR is awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.1956Due to crisis in Hungary, 200,000 refugees flee to Austria and Yugoslavia. 




An independence war in Algeria triggers an outward flow into Tunisia and Morocco.



1957UNHCR intervenes to assist Algerian refugees in Morocco and Tunisia.1958Additional refugee flows take place in Africa, with Uganda receiving people from Sudan and Rwanda.1959World Refugee Year is celebrated throughout the world.1960The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany institutes an indemnification fund for victims of Nazism and entrusts its administration to UNHCR.1962Burundi witnesses a mass influx of ethnic Tutsi from Rwanda. 




The International Council of Voluntary Agencies (ICVA) is created as the umbrella organization for many international and regional voluntary agencies working for refugees. 








UNHCR helps to repatriate 260,000 Algerians from Morocco and Tunisia.






 












Page 31





1965



Ethnic Hutu of Burundi migrate to Rwanda. This will occur again twice before 1994.1966Refugees from Mozambique, fighting for independence, migrate to neighboring countries. Many will repatriate in 1975, when Mozambique becomes independent.1967On 31 January, the Protocol to the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees is adopted in New York. 




The United Nations makes its Declaration on Territorial Asylum.



1968After repression of the Prague Spring, 42,000 Czechs abroad do not return to their country.1969On 10 September, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Convention governing the specific aspects of refugee problems in Africa is adopted in Addis Ababa.1971Nearly 10 million Bengalis from Eastern Pakistan take refuge in India.1972UNHCR launches special operations to repatriate and reintegrate over 200,000 refugees in southern Sudan as well as to assist hundreds of thousands of displaced persons. 




The Bengalis taking refuge in India return home to the newly created state of Bangladesh.








Thousands of Asians expelled from Uganda are resettled abroad within a very short time. 








Ethnic Hutu of Burundi migrate to Rwanda.



1973Following political repression after the military coup that overthrew Salvadore Allende in Chile, a refugee movement begins, resulting in some 200,000 Chileans taking flight abroad. 




A military take-over in Uruguay generates the flight of about 200,000 Uruguayan refugees.






 












Page 32





1973 cont.



Approximately 160,000 Biharis are transferred from Bangladesh to Pakistan. (Between 1977 and 1982 another 37,000 are moved.)1974-
1976Independence in Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, and Angola allows repatriation of hundreds of thousands of refugees from neighboring countries.1974In Cyprus, UNHCR launches a humanitarian program in Favor of those who have sought refuge on the other side of the demarcation line. This includes 164,000 Greek Cypriots from the North and 34,000 Turkish Cypriots from the South.1975-
1980About 350,000 Cambodians seek asylum in Thailand, of which 310,000 are resettled in third countries. (In 1993, as designated lead agency, UNHCR repatriates approximately 370,000 border Khmers and Cambodian refugees from Thailand, in the context of an overall political settlement in their country.)1975Tens of thousands of Saharawi move from Western Sahara into Algeria. 




In Argentina a military dictatorship emerges, which drives 600,000 Argentine citizens into flight abroad. 








The fall of Vietnam and Laos provokes the flight of 1.5 million Indochinese refugees into other countries in Southeast Asia. More than 1.3 million of these people are eventually resettled in North America, Europe, and Oceania.



1977Approximately 90,000 Muslim Filipinos seek refuge in Malaysia. 




Angola receives 200,000 Zairians from the province of Katanga (now Shaba). 








An outward flow of refugees from Equatorial Guinea move to Cameroon and Gabon. They will repatriate after a change of regime in their country. 








About 200,000 Burmese of Bengali origin take refuge in Bangladesh.






 












Page 33





1977 cont.



The Conference to Review Draft Convention on Territorial Asylum fails.1978-
1979Movement from Laos to Thailand becomes a mass exodus. A number of Laotians also seek refuge in Vietnam. 




The exodus of the so-called boat people, who have been leaving Vietnam by sea since 1975, assumes dramatic dimensions. Many drown or become victims of piracy.



1978The 200,000 Bengali Burmese displaced the previous year repatriate to Burma. 




Afghan refugees begin to arrive in Pakistan and Iran. By 1990, 5 million Afghans leave their home country. 








Approximately 130,000 Vietnamese of Chinese origin take refuge in China. In 1990 they will total 286,000. 








Zairians, who in previous years sought refuge in neighboring countries, start returning to their home country. 








Emigres from all over the world rejected at European borders begin to ask for asylum, in addition to those arriving in Europe because of the political crises prevailing in Africa, in the Middle East, and in Latin America. 








Central America begins to register outflows of population from Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Guatemala, and there are also many displaced persons within the countries themselves. In the Caribbean area, many Haitians have already sought asylum in Santo Domingo, Venezuela, nearby islands, and the United States. 








UNHCR launches an assistance program in the Horn of Africa for hundreds of thousands of Ethiopian refugees in the Sudan, Somalia, and Djibouti, as well as 500,000 internally displaced people in Ogaden.



1979A change of regime in Nicaragua brings about the repatriation of 100,000 Nicaraguans. 




Thousands of Chadians flee to the Sudan, Cameroon, and other neighboring countries.






 












Page 34





1979 cont.



An exodus of Ugandans moves into the Sudan. 




Following the Iranian Islamic Revolution, large numbers of Iranian asylum-seekers cross into neighboring countries. About 25,000 approach UNHCR in Pakistan and Turkey, requesting asylum, and the majority of those accepted are eventually resettled in Western countries. 








The Conference on Indochinese Refugees meets in Geneva, and countries make pledges to resettle Vietnamese boat people. 








The Pan-African Refugee Conference meets in Arusha, Tanzania, to determine ways to better assist and protect refugees.



1980In repatriation efforts in Africa, 200,000 refugees return to Zimbabwe following independence, 190,000 to Zaire, and 50,000 to Angola. 




Civil war in Chad again forces hundreds of thousands of people to take refuge in neighboring countries. They will repatriate in 1981-1982. 








In March, the U.S. Congress passes the 1980 Refugee Act, the first comprehensive American legislation on refugee admission. 








From April to September, 130,000 Cuban boat people arrive in Florida, causing a refugee emergency.



1981UNHCR is awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for the second time.




The International Conference on Assistance to Refugees in Africa (ICARA I) is held in Geneva to encourage donor states to increase their assistance to African host countries.



1982The number of refugees in Central America, Mexico, and Panama increases considerably.




The United Nations Border Relief Operation (UNBRO) is established to assist refugees on the Thai-Cambodian border until 1991.






 












Page 35





1983



Civil war in Sri Lanka causes an exodus of Tamils. By 1992, the numbers of Tamil refugees worldwide rises to half a million200,000 asylum-seekers in Europe and 230,000 in the Tamilpopulated regions of southern India. 




A mass influx from southern Sudan into Ethiopia begins; by 1990, this movement will have involved 400,000 Sudanese refugees. 








A limited repatriation operation starts from Somalia to Ethiopia, and about 12,000 refugees return by 1990. A 1990 crisis in Somalia will, however, force many more Ethiopian refugees to repatriate or to take refuge into Kenya.



1984Papua-New Guinea begins receiving refugees from the Indonesian province of Irian Jaya. 




Salvadoran refugeesin limited numbersbegin to return home, mainly from Honduras. In 1990, almost all of them will have repatriated under the auspices of UNHCR. 








On 22 November the Cartagena Declaration on International Protection of Refugees in Central America, Mexico, and Panama is adopted. 








The second International Conference on Assistance to Refugees in Africa (ICARA II) meets in Geneva.



1985The Sudan is in crisis as it receives an influx of tens of thousands of Ethiopians whose lives are menaced by war and famine.1986-
1989Approximately 320,000 Ugandans repatriate from the Sudan and Zaire.1986Europe registers a considerable increase in asylum-seekers, with a growing percentage being non-European. 




A mass exodus from Mozambique into neighboring countries begins. More than 900,000 of the 1 million refugees seek asylum in Malawi, an amount equaling 10 percent of its population.






 












Page 36





1987



Tens of thousands of Poles arrive in various countries of Western Europe. 




A Peace Plan for Central America (Esquipulas II) offers new opportunities for repatriation.



1988About 60,000 Burundese take refuge in Rwanda. They will be able to repatriate a few months later. 




Ethiopia receives a mass influx of Somali refugees following armed conflict in Northwestern Somalia. 








The International Conference on the Plight of Refugees, Returnees and Displaced Persons in Southern Africa (SARRED) meets in Oslo to effect a plan of action for the region.



1989Masses of East Germans flee to neighboring countries, particularly West Germany. In November, when it is clear that refugee flows cannot be contained, the Berlin Wall collapses and the post-Cold War era begins. 




Hungary, which has received refugees from Romania, signs the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. Other East-European countries, such as Poland, begin to receive asylum-seekers and to consider adhesion to the convention. 








Following incidents in border areas, 75,000 refugees and displaced persons arrive in Senegal and Mauritania from Liberia. 








In Geneva, the Conference on Southeast Asia adopts a Comprehensive Plan of Action to provide solutionsincluding refugee status determination and voluntary repatriationfor Vietnamese and Laotian refugees. 








In Guatemala, the International Conference on Central American Refugees (CIREFCA) adopts a Plan of Action for Central American refugees, returnees, and displaced persons. 








After many years in exile, 43,000 Namibians return to their home country from Angola and other countries.



1990-
1994Some 300,000 Colombians are forcibly displaced within their country during the early 1990s as a result of guerrilla war, counterinsurgency, and violence related to drug trafficking.


 












Page 37





1990-
1994cont.



At least 500,000 Peruvians are displaced in the early 1990s as a result of continuing political violence between the military and the Shining Path guerrillas.1990As a consequence of civil war in Somalia the number of Somali refugees in Ethiopia reaches 375,000. 




Due to civil war, 750,000 Liberians (32 percent of the entire population) take refuge in Guinea, the Ivory Coast, and Sierra Leone. 








Approximately 30,000 Salvadorans from Honduras and 50,000 Nicaraguans from Honduras and Costa Rica return to their countries under UNHCR auspices. 








Approximately 4 million people are displaced in the 12 months following Iraq's August invasion of Kuwait. Between August and September, more than 1 million migrant workers and other foreign nationals flee from Iraq and Kuwait into Jordan and other neighboring countries, while 850,000 Yemenis living in Saudi Arabia return home.



1991President Siad Barre of Somalia is ousted, and fighting breaks out between rival clans. Increasing numbers of Somalis flee into Kenya, Ethiopia, or the interior of Somalia. 




Shortly after the Gulf War, armed conflict between the Iraqi government and Iraqi Kurds and Shi'ites provokes one of the largest and fastest refugee movements in recent history. About 1.4 million people take refuge either in Iran or along the eastern border of Iraq. A huge international relief effort, Operation Provide Comfort, is mounted to aid the Kurds. 








As fighting breaks out in Croatia, UNHCR begins to aid people displaced by war. 








A military coup overthrows the first democratically elected president of Haiti, Jean-Bertrand Aristide. As repression spreads throughout the country over the next few months, more than 38,000 Haitians risk their lives at sea in an attempt to reach the United States.






 












Page 38





1991 cont.



The United Nations General Assembly creates the post of emergency relief coordinator to ensure more rapid and effective international responses to humanitarian emergencies.1992As conflict spreads to Bosnia-Herzegovina, UNHCR begins to distribute food aid to war victims. During the war, UNHCR assumes the lead role in organizing the UN relief effort in the former Yugoslavia. 




The secretary-general creates the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, to be led by a new under secretary-general for humanitarian affairs. 








Kenya is struck by one of the world's fastest-growing refugee emergencies, with an average of 900 refugees, mostly from Somalia, entering the country each day. By the end of the year, more than 400,000 refugees are in Kenya. In September, UNHCR launches a cross-border operation with the aim of stabilizing population movements inside Somalia. 








During the first half of the year, nearly 100,000 Nepalese from Bhutan flee ethnic persecution and enter Nepal. 








In a war between the government and opposition forces, up to half a million Tajiks are driven from their homes. About 356,000 of these remain in the southern part of the country of Tajikistan, while 60,000 refugees enter Afghanistan. 








At the end of the year, the first of 28,000 U.S. troops arrive in Somalia in Operation Restore Hope to establish a more secure environment for humanitarian relief operations.



1993In Togo, political unrest and government repression force more than 200,000 Togolese into Ghana and Benin. 




In Rwanda, peace negotiations between rebels and the government fail, leading to renewed fighting that displaces about 600,000 persons. 








In Zaire, an outbreak of politically instigated ethnic violence forces an estimated 300,000 people from their homes by mid-year.






 












Page 39





1993 cont.



In Mozambique, UNHCR begins a three-year repatriation program for about 1.5 million Mozambican refugees. The repatriation is the largest in the history of Africa. 




In Germany, the parliament passes a comprehensive asylum law that significantly restricts the previous unqualified right to apply for asylum in Germany. 








In the United States, the Supreme Court rules that international law prohibiting the forced return of refugees does not apply to a country that goes outside its borders to apprehend and return refugees, upholding the U.S. policy of summarily returning all Haitian asylum-seekers seized by the U.S. Coast Guard on the high seas. 








The conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh, a region inside Azerbaijan populated mainly by Armenians, causes the largest refugee movement in the former Soviet Union. By June, almost 200,000 Azeris have fled from Armenia to Azerbaijan, while some 300,000 Armenians have escaped in the opposite direction. Within Azerbaijan, an additional 300,000 people have been uprooted. 








In Georgia, secessionist struggles in Abkhazia and Ossetia cause large-scale population displacement. 








In Burundi, 800,000 people are displaced as a result of an attempted coup d'etat in October.



1994UNHCR assists 4 million people displaced by the conflict in the former Yugoslavia. 




Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) sign a Declaration of Principles, establishing the basis for a peace accord, which includes a provision for the return of the Palestinian refugees who fled from Gaza and the West Bank in 1967. The accord delays discussion of the return of Palestinian refugees who fled in 1948. 








In Burma, the military government and UNHCR sign an agreement on repatriation of Burmese Rohingya refugees from Bangladesh. 








After massive bloodletting in Rwanda, over 250,000 Rwandese, mostly Tutsis, flee to Tanzania in a 24-hour period in April.






 












Page 40





1994cont.



As the Tutsi-led Rwanda Patriotic Front sweeps to victory in Rwanda, over 1 million Rwandese, mostly Hutus, take refuge in neighboring Zaire over a 48-hour period in July, causing a huge humanitarian crisis. 




The United States rescinds its program of automatically returning all Haitian boat people to Haiti without an asylum hearing. Instead, the U.S. Coast Guard ships all Haitian asylum applicants it picks up at sea to the U.S. base at Guantanamo on Cuba for asylum processing. 








Alarmed by a sudden surge in the number of Cubans reaching Florida in August, the Clinton Administration dramatically changes its policy of open entry for all Cubans arriving in the United States. About 30,000 Cubans are picked up at sea and are taken to Guantanamo for processing. The Clinton Administration agrees to admit more than 20,000 Cubans a year as part of a deal in which it won Fidel Castro's promise to stop the huge exodus of Cuban boat people.






 












Page 41




3 Biographical Sketches








THIS BIOGRAPHICAL SELECTION IS ONLY A PARTIAL LIST of men and women who are important in the area of refugees, either because they were refugees themselves or because they actively sought to find solutions to the refugee problem. The chapter is divided into two sections: distinguished refugees and activists for refugees.








Distinguished Refugees








Many more people should be included in a list of famous refugees, but space does not permit it. Every year there will be more people who earn recognition. Each influx of refugees brings with it people who will go on to distinguish themselves in their new homelands. They will become some of the poets and writers, scientists and doctors, politicians, educators, and philosophers of future generations. The schools and universities of receiving countries are now graduating refugee children, many of whom have distinguished themselves in their studies. Since refugees often need a great deal of help, it is easy for receiving countries sometimes to forget that refugees themselves have a great deal to give. In the future, lists like this one will also include people with Chinese, Cambodian, Ethiopian, Sudanese, Spanish, Croat, Serb, and Bosnian names.






 












Page 42




Yasir Arafat (1929- 








Yasir Arafat was born in Jerusalem in 1929, before the establishment of the state of Israel left the Palestinians without a country. Both his father and his older brother were committed antiZionists. It was in the local secondary school that Arafat first began to develop an interest in politics. Arafat went to Cairo to study engineering and continued his political activities there. He was elected president of the League of Palestinian Students in 1952 and served in the Egyptian army during the Suez Crisis in 1956. He then worked as an engineer in Kuwait from 1957 to 1965. In 1956, he helped establish the Arab guerrilla movement called Al Fatah. This organization developed into the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO), and Arafat became leader of the PLO in 1968. The PLO was, at that time, the government of the stateless, displaced Palestinian people who were living in refugee camps in what had been Palestine. As leader of the PLO, Arafat finally recognized Israel and denounced terrorist methods in 1989, and in 1990 he announced the existence of the Palestinian state. His reputation with the West was damaged when he supported Saddam Hussein's regime during the Gulf War. Palestine is still not recognized by all countries, and the struggle of Palestinians to establish their own state continues with Arafat at the forefront of the effort. In 1993, Arafat signed an agreement with Israel regarding the future autonomy of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 








Dietrich Bonhoeffer (1906-1943)








Dietrich Bonhoeffer was born in 1906 in Breslau. He was the son of a professor at Berlin University, and he and his twin sister enjoyed a happy childhood in pre-Second World War Germany. Bonhoeffer studied theology at Berlin and Thubingin universities and Union Theological Seminary in New York. He became a Lutheran minister and took up a professorship at Berlin University in 1931. From the outset of Hitler's rise to power, Bonhoeffer was an outspoken adversary of Nazism and was a central figure in the church's opposition to Hitler. Bonhoeffer became a refugee when his position put him in danger. He went to New York in 1939, but remained a refugee for only two weeks. He realized he had to ''share the trials of this time" with the German people. It was after considerable soul searching that Bonhoeffer concluded it was right to kill someone as evil as Hitler. Bonhoeffer took part






 












Page 43




in a plot to plant a bomb in an aircraft that was to carry the fuhrer. The bomb failed to detonate, the plotters were arrested, and Bonhoeffer was tortured and imprisoned. He was hanged in prison at Flossenberg in 1943 at age 39. Since then his writings, published postmortem, have made him a renowned and respected contemporary theologian.








Willy Brandt (1913-1993)








Willy Brandt was born Herbert Ernst Karl Frahm in 1913 in Lubeck, Germany. He left school in 1932 to become an apprentice shipbuilder. An outspoken anti-Nazi and a socialist worker, he held dangerous opinions in the changing political climate of Germany in the 1930s. He emigrated from Germany to Norway, became a Norwegian citizen, and changed his name to Willy Brandt. He then attended the University of Oslo and became a journalist. During World War II Brandt was active in the Norwegian and German resistance movements. He was able to return to Germany in 1945 and regained his German citizenship in 1947. Brandt was elected to the German parliament in 1949 as the member for Berlin. In 1957, he was elected mayor of Berlin and served in that capacity until 1966. In 1964, he became chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SPD). He was minister of foreign affairs and vice chancellor, and then, in 1969, he became chancellor of West Germany. Brandt resigned after a 1974 scandal named his personal aide as an East German spy. He continued to work in international politics, however, including four years as a member of the European parliament. Willy Brandt worked tirelessly for reconciliation between East and West Germany during the Cold War. This policy was known as Ostpolitik. For his efforts he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1971. He received numerous other awards, including the Reinhold Neibuhr Award in 1972 and the B'nai B'rith Gold Medal in 1981.








Bertolt Brecht (1898-1956)








Bertolt Brecht was first a refugee from Nazism in Germany and then from McCarthyism in the United States. Born in Germany in 1898, he would become one of the most influential dramatists of the twentieth century. His work in Germany before World War II included the wildly successful Three Penny Opera, which he wrote with Kurt Weill in 1928. Brecht's work was despised by Hitler, and he found it necessary to leave Germany in 1933. Joined by his wife






 












Page 44




and son, he went first to Denmark and then to Sweden. As the Nazis closed in, the family decided to go to the United States, hoping to get aboard a boat in Finland to make the crossing. Their visas were delayed, however, and by the time they could leave there was no escape by sea. They went instead via the transSiberian railway and crossed the Pacific from Vladivostok. Once settled in the United States, Brecht continued to write plays, producing such theatrical classics as Mother Courage (1939), The Good Woman of Szechuan (1941), and The Caucasian Chalk Circle (1945). With the rise of McCarthyism in the United States, however, a number of creative minds were being censured. Brecht was among those suspected of communist leanings, and he was investigated by the House Committee on UnAmerican Activities. He came away vindicated but decided to leave the United States. In the meantime, the East German government had invited him to create a state theater there, and he and his family went to Berlin. He remained in Germany, working with his new company, producing imaginative versions of classics, and staging his own works.








Marc Chagall (1887-1985)








Marc Chagall was born in Vitebsk, Russia, in 1887 of a poor Jewish family. From an early age, he was determined to be famous and finally decided to become a painter. His mother believed in his remarkable abilities, and he was fortunate to be taken on as a student with a well-known local artist. As a Jew, there were restrictions on his movement, but in spite of this, Chagall managed to go to Petersburg, the capital of imperial Russia. There he further developed his style of painting, combining realism and fantasy. He received a stipend to go to Paris, which was then the hub of artistic creativity in Europe. He was invited to show some of his work in Berlin in 1914. He went, and intending to return to Paris after a short absence, left a number of canvases behind. The war and the Russian Revolution kept Chagall from returning for nine years, by which time his friends had sold his canvases. After the revolution, he returned to his homeland and enjoyed a short period as an art teacher. When famine gripped Russia, however, artists became viewed first as unnecessary and then as reactionary. Chagall was forced to flee back to Paris in 1919. His reputation grew, and he enjoyed several years of familial happiness. As a Jew living in France, he was forced once again into exile by the Nazi invasion.






 












Page 45




He went to the United States, where he lived and worked, returning to Europe after the war. He died in France.








Albert Einstein (1879-1955)








A slightly wistful-looking, white-haired man looks out of a UNHCR poster under the words, "A bundle of belongings isn't the only thing a refugee brings to his new country." The face is unmistakably that of Albert Einstein, probably the most famous of all refugees. His valuable mathematical and scientific works guaranteed him a welcome in his new home, the United States. Born in Germany of Jewish parents in 1879, Einstein was destined to become a refugee. He showed little promise during his formal education, but in 1905, left to his own insightful thinking, he came up with theories that would revolutionize twentieth-century physics. Because he was Jewish and a pacifist, the Nazis denounced his work as worthless, and Einstein left Germany when Hitler came to power. He went first to Belgium, where he stayed until fear of the Nazi invasion drove him to seek refuge in Britain and finally in the United States. Knowing he was fortunate to have escaped Nazism, Einstein worked to help others like himself leave Germany and settle in the United States. He was attached to Princeton University, where he lived quietly and worked on the theoretical aspects of nuclear physics, his knowledge adding greatly to the collective genius that led to the development of the atom bomb. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics. After seeing what the atom bomb could do, he campaigned for peace until his death in 1955.








Enrico Fermi (1901-1954)








Born in Italy in 1901, Enrico Fermi earned his Ph.D. from the University of Pisa in physics in 1924. He then worked at the University of Florence, where he made his first important contribution to physicsworking out the statistics of particles (fermions) that would later be named after him. In 1927, he was appointed professor of physics at the University of Rome. After the discovery of the neutron in 1932, Fermi focused his genius on investigating the structure of nuclei. He was to discover over 40 isotopes. Because he was an outspoken anti-Fascist with a Jewish wife, he began to fear the rising Fascist movement in Italy. When he was invited to Stockholm in 1938 to receive the Nobel Prize for Physics, he saw it as an opportunity to escape to safety. He and his






 












Page 46




wife sailed to Sweden, and, after the prize-giving, they continued on to New York, where Fermi worked first at Columbia University. During World War II, when the drive was on to create nuclear weapons, he worked at the University of Chicago and helped build the first atomic reactor, or pile, in a unused squash court. He was present at Los Alamos when the first nuclear bomb was detonated. After the war he continued to serve the United States as an advisor to the government and to the Atomic Energy Commission. Fermi defended the reputation of his fellow scientist, Robert Oppenheimer, when he was accused of being a communist sympathizer during the McCarthy era. Enrico Fermi died of cancer in 1954.








Sigmund Freud (1856-1939)








Sigmund Freud was born in Austria in 1856. By the 1920s, his theories and work in the field of psychoanalysis were world famous. He excited controversy as his ideas spread. When Austria was absorbed into the Third Reich in the Anschluss, Freud, aged 80, was still working in Vienna. Hitler despised Freud and very possibly feared the man who could shed light on his deeply disturbed and vindictive personality. When Freud's books were burned in Vienna, he is reported to have commented that mankind had progressed from burning people only to burning their books. Freud's children, Anna and Martin, were arrested but released. This experience, coupled with the insistence of his friends, convinced Freud that he should leave Austria and seek refuge outside Nazi-occupied areas. Until then he had steadfastly refused to leave Vienna. Due to his reputation, he had no difficulty getting a visa to enter Britain, but exit visas from Austria for himself and his family had to be bought with bribes and diplomatic pressure. Freud and his immediate family members relocated in London, where he was able to continue his valuable work until his death in 1939.








Lenin (1870-1924)








Born Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov in 1870, Lenin became known to the world by his pen name. The name excited and enraged people, depending upon their reception of his views on Marxist socialism. Young Ulyanov was a lawyer in Russia at the turn of the century, when political activity against the czar was growing. His brother was hanged for attempting to assassinate the czar, another






 












Page 47




brother and a sister were imprisoned for circulating revolutionary propaganda, and Ulyanov and his wife spent time in exile in Siberia. In 1900, Ulyanov found himself under observation by the political police, and leaving Russia seemed a good idea. He went first to Geneva, where he attempted to publish a propagandist newspaper called The Spark. Quarrels with fellow revolutionaries forced him to move to Munich, where he took the pen name that was to be his label for the rest of his life. Lenin wrote, spoke, and raged against a political system he saw as profoundly unfair. He gathered around him other Russian refugees who agreed with his views, and they spent long hours debating how to change the world. During this time Lenin developed the qualities of certainty and leadership that would put him in good stead when the revolution finally took place. Lenin left Munich and made his way to Londonthe beginning of the somewhat frantic wanderings back and forth across Europe that characterized Lenin's life until he could finally return to Russia to lead the Revolution of 1917.








Golda Meir (1898-1978)








Golda Meir was born in Kiev, Russia, in 1898. Anti-Semitism was rife there, and although her family was very poor, they managed to leave Russia illegally and flee to Canada. They eventually settled in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where Golda grew up. By the age of 18, she had become a committed Zionist and was travelling around the United States to gather support for the establishment of a Jewish homeland in Palestine. In 1917, she married Morris Myerson. They moved to Palestine after the World War I and eventually hebraicized Myerson to Meir in response to an appeal from BenGurion that all Jews have Hebrew names. In Israel, Meir continued her work toward a Jewish homeland and held various positions of leadership. She was a member of the Histradut party, and when the party leader was arrested in 1946, Golda took his place in negotiations with the British. In 1947, when war with the surrounding Arab states looked inevitable, Golda went to the United States to raise $50 million for arms for the Jews. In 1956, she became an Israeli foreign minister. When she was 67 years old, she was asked to form a coalition government, and at age 70 she became the prime minister of Israel. She resigned in 1974, four years before her death.






 












Page 48




Rudolf Nureyev (1938-1993)








Most refugees are driven from their home countries by war, oppression, or natural disaster. Some, however, such as Rudolf Nureyev, leave home to find a country where they are free to express themselves. Born in Ufa in the USSR's Bashkir province, Nureyev was a ballet dancer of some renown in his country. His artistic expression, however, was proscribed by government preferences on the nature of ballet. For that reason, he defected to the West in 1961, when the Kirov ballet company with which he was travelling was about to leave Paris and return to Moscow. He lived and worked in Paris, gaining a reputation as both dancer and choreographer. He later worked with a number of major dance companies in the West. His dynamism brought the male dancer to the center of the ballet stage and drew wider audiences to ballet than the discipline had previously enjoyed. He worked until his death in 1993. Nureyev will remain an important influence in the field of dance for years to come.








Alexander Solzhenitsyn (1918- )








Alexander Solzhenitsyn was born in 1918 in Rostov, Russia. He studied physics and mathematics at the university level and served in the Soviet army during World War II as an artillery commander. In 1945, he was arrested, charged with anti-Soviet behavior, and imprisoned for eight years. He spent an additional three years in internal exile in Siberia. Solzhenitsyn was rehabilitated in 1956, and he took up a teaching post. In 1962, he published One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich, a novel about life in Stalin's prison camps. This caused him further trouble with the authorities, and in 1969 he was forbidden to publish both inside and outside the Soviet Union. He ignored the order, publishing The First Circle (1968) and Cancer Ward (1969). Solzhenitsyn was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1970, but he could not travel to Sweden to receive it, nor would his government allow a member of the Swedish Academy to present it to him in the Soviet Union. Following the publication of The Gulag Archipelago in 1973, Solzhenitsyn was expelled from the Soviet Union and went to live in Switzerland. He moved from there to the United States, where he continued to write and speak out about Soviet denial of human rights. He also spoke out against the decadence and materialism of the West. With the end of the Cold War and the dissolution of the






 












Page 49




USSR, Solzhenitsyn's Russian citizenship was restored, and he returned home to Russia in mid-1994.








Sun Yat-sen (1866-1925)








Sun Yat-sen was born in Kwantung, China, to a peasant family in 1866. He lived most of his young life in Hawaii, where he went to school and was brought up in the Christian tradition. He returned to China to study medicine in Canton and Hong Kong, graduating in 1895. In 1894, he founded the Revive China Society. As a result of his participation in an unsuccessful uprising in Canton in 1895, he was forced into exile. He went first to the United States and then to Britain, where he achieved some notoriety by being briefly imprisoned at the Chinese Legation in London in 1896. In 1905, Sun Yat-sen founded the Alliance Society and began to develop his notion of the three principles to which everyone is entitlednationalism, democracy, and livelihood. After an absence of 16 years, Sun returned to China when the 1911 revolution overthrew the Manchu dynasty. He was elected president of the provisional government, but resigned in 1912 in the face of conservative opposition. He then led an unsuccessful revolt in 1913 and was once again forced to leave his country. The Soviet Union helped him regain power in 1923, and he was again elected president, this time of the republican government in Canton. Using what he had learned in the Soviet Union, he founded the Chinese nationalist party called the Kuomintang and formed an early alliance with the Chinese Communist party. When he died in 1925, he was respected by both the Kuomintang and the communists. The reconciliation of the two parties, however, was to be short-lived.








Tenzin Gyatso (1935- )








Tenzin Gyatso was born Lhamo Dhondrub in Tibet in 1935. An expedition of Tibetan Buddhist lamas searching for the child who was the reincarnation of the late Dalai Lama decided two-year-old Lhamo Dhondrub was that child. His name was changed to Tenzin Gyatso, and he began the long period of training needed to become the spiritual leader of the Tibetan people. He was enthroned as the fourteenth Dalai Lamathe Tibetan God Kingin Lhasa in 1940. After Tibet was invaded by the Chinese in 1950, the Chinese allowed the Tibetans to continue their traditional way of life for a short time, but more and more pressure was put on them






 












Page 50




to become more like the Chinese. The Dalai Lama tried to negotiate with the Chinese to reach compromises that would allow the continuation of Tibetan cultural and religious traditions. The Chinese would not compromise, however, and they seriously mistreated the Tibetans in their own land. The Tibetans began to stage revolts that were cruelly put down. After an uprising in Lhasa in 1959, many Tibetans fled across the Himalayas to safety in India. The Dalai Lama was among them. He has been forced to remain in exile since then, but he has worked tirelessly for a solution to his country's difficulty. He has travelled extensively and made many overtures for peace with the Chinese. He continues to lead and inspire the Tibetan peoplethose in exile and those still in Tibet. He was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 in recognition for his continued efforts to preserve his people's cultural heritage through nonviolent struggle.








Activists for Refugees








The people whose names appear on this list are those for whom biographical information was readily available. There are many activists in the refugee field, both in the United States and abroad, whose names do not appear in this section. Lack of time and space prohibits mentioning them all. In the United states, for instance, Charles Sternberg and Leo Cherne of the International Rescue Committee, the late Charles McCarthy of the U.S. Catholic Conference/Migration Service, Julia Taft of InterAction, Wells Klein of the American Council for Nationalities Service, and many others have worked tirelessly and against great odds to succeed at what appears to be an almost hopeless task.








Robert P. DeVecchi (1930- )








Robert DeVecchi was born in New York City in 1930 into a family with a tradition of public and social service. His parents devoted much time to volunteer work, and his paternal grandfather, Paolo DeVecchi, was on the first International Red Cross field surgical team in the Franco-Prussian War in 1870. Robert DeVecchi was educated at Yale and Harvard. He became a foreign service officer for the U.S. Department of State, serving from 1956 to 1966 in Washington, D.C., Warsaw, Rome, and in Paris with NATO. From






 












Page 51




1972 to 1975 he was the New York director for Save the Children Federation. In 1975, DeVecchi decided to make a change. He volunteered to work with the International Rescue Committee (IRC) in Fort Chaffee, Arkansas, helping to resettle Vietnamese refugees who had been evacuated from Saigon and brought to the United States. He subsequently became IRC Indochina program director, then IRC program director, and executive director. During those years he visited many areas where refugees needed the help of the International Rescue Committee, including Malaysia, Thailand, Kurdistan, Mogadishu (Somalia), and Sarajevo (exYugoslavia). DeVecchi is currently president of the International Rescue Committee. During the years he has been with the organization, its role has shifted from being mainly concerned with resettlement to devoting much of its effort and budget to relief and assistance to refugees and internally displaced peoples. Of his involvement with the IRC, DeVecchi says: "The work has called upon every possible talent or energy I may have, and represents the coming together in a single focus, of every interest and passion of my life. I feel truly blessed."








Elizabeth G. Ferris (1950- )








Elizabeth (Beth) Ferris's interest in the world beyond U.S. borders began when she was a high school exchange student to Manaus, Brazil. She continued to travel during her university years, including a year in the Andean countries researching her dissertation. Ferris received her B.A. in history from Duke University and an M.A. in Latin American studies and Ph.D. in political science from the University of Florida. After finishing her degrees in 1975, she taught at Miami University of Ohio and Lafayette College, among others. During 1981-1982, she was a Fulbright Professor at Universidad Autonoma de Mexico. She was then based in Geneva with the Refugee Service of the World Council of Churches from 1985 to 1991. From 1991 to 1993, she was research director for the Life and Peace Institute in Uppsala, Sweden, where she coordinated the work of researchers around the world working on peace issues and the nonviolent resolution of conflict. Beth Ferris is a Quaker, and this has been central to shaping her commitment to justice issues and refugees. She is currently director of the Immigration and Refugee Program of Church World Service in New York City, where she is involved not only with refugee resettlement and asylum work in the United






 












Page 52




States but also with mobilizing U.S. church support for international refugee work. Ferris says that work in the field of refugees is ''special because individual human beings are at the center of concern. [It is] about relieving suffering, offering hope for lasting solutions, and working to make it possible for people to return [home]."








Arthur Cleveland Helton (1949- )








Arthur Helton was born in 1949 in St. Louis, Missouri, where he attended local schools. In 1971 he graduated from Columbia College in New York City, and in 1976 he graduated from New York University School of Law, where he currently teaches immigration and refugee law. After becoming a lawyer, Helton worked in private practice, providing legal assistance to the underprivileged. His first work in the field of refugees was in 1981, when he represented Haitian boat people who were transferred to New York from detention in Florida. In 1982, he joined the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and directed its Refugee Project for 12 years. During Helton's time with the Lawyers Committee, it was one of the leading voices on asylum and refugee protection. He trained over 1,000 lawyers around the country in techniques of representing Haitians and established the country's largest volunteer lawyer program assisting refugees. He worked on the creation of a corps of government asylum adjudicators, a program to release detainees who would not abscond, and the granting of temporary permission to remain in the United States to Bosnians, Liberians, and Somalis until it was safe for them to return home. Helton's work has been recognized worldwide, and he has investigated the plights of refugees and displaced persons wherever emergencies have arisen. In 1991, he received the Ninoy Aquino Refugee Recognition Award from the president of the Republic of the Philippines. In 1994, Helton was appointed director of migration programs at the Open Society Institute in New York, where his first task was to establish an organization to ameliorate forced population movements in the countries of the former Soviet Union. When asked why he became involved with refugees, Helton explained: "I have great sympathy for innocent victims."








Gaynor Jacobson (1912- )








Gaynor Jacobson's father, Morris, was a member of a Jewish socialist organization in Latvia and had been arrested and sen-






 












Page 53




tenced to life in a Siberian labor camp. After serving five years, he was able to bribe his way to freedom, and he and his wife Rose emigrated to the United States in 1907. Gaynor Jacobson was born Israel Gaynor Jacobson in Buffalo, New York, in 1912. When he was about three years old, he experienced his first taste of racism. His was the only Jewish family in the small New York town of Angola, and other young children taunted him about being Jewish. He graduated from high school with very good grades and went on to attend Columbia University in New York City. Unfortunately, family funds ran out during the Depression, and Gaynor was forced to leave before he finished. Eventually he was able to complete his degree in social work at the University of Buffalo. He went to work for the Jewish Welfare Society of Buffalo in 1937 and for the Jewish Family Agency in Rochester, New York, in 1938. While in Rochester he became executive secretary of the Jewish Community Council and executive director of the Jewish Family and Children's Agency. He also became the first vice president of the local branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). He was very much involved in social and political activities, doing weekly radio talks to counteract proNazi, racist broadcasts. Jacobson's refugee work began with the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee in 1944. He was given the job of helping Jews who were coming out of concentration camps at the end of World War II. He was determined that the only solution to problems facing Jews in Europe was the establishment of the state of Israel. For many years up to the present, Jacobson has been involved in helping refugees and immigrants through the Hebrew Sheltering and Immigrant Aid Society. He divides his time between his homes in New York and Arizona.








James G. McDonald (1886-1955)








James McDonald was born in Ohio in 1886. He did his graduate work at Harvard University, began his career as a professor of politics and history, and went on to become a journalist. From 1919 to 1933, he was chairman of the Foreign Policy Association and was keenly interested and well informed about all international issues. In 1933, the flood of refugees from Germany required the international community to urgently address the problem, and McDonald was appointed the high commissioner for refugees coming from Germany. He felt the rise of Hitler was a tragedy for Germany as well as for Jews, and he tried to






 












Page 54




counteract prejudice against all things German. He was a devout Christian and believed Christians had a special responsibility to fight Nazism. During his short tenure of office, many countries were becoming less disposed to receive Jewish refugees, and McDonald took a great interest in Palestine as a place of refuge for them. In 1935, as it became apparent that more and more refugees would be forced to flee Germany, McDonald decided to resign his post in a manner that would bring the impending horrors of Nazism to world attention. He wrote a letter of resignation, which was widely published, denouncing Hitler and the Third Reich. It was an outspoken condemnation of Nazi policies that endangered the Jews of Europe. McDonald continued to work in the field of refugees, becoming chairman of the President's Advisory Committee on Political Refugees. He later became the first U.S. ambassador to Israel.








Rigoberta Menchu (1959- )








Rigoberta Menchu is a Guatemalan human rights activist. A Mayan Indian, she was born in 1959 to Vincente and Juana Menchu. As a teenager, she became concerned about the plight of indigenous peoples and began to campaign for their rights. (Guatemala has a particularly bad record of repression and violence against its indigenous peoples.) Because of Rigoberta's political involvement, her mother, father, and brother were murdered by Guatemalan security forces in 1980. She continued to oppose her government's repressive policies toward the indigenous and, fearing for her own life, was forced to flee Guatemala and seek refuge in Mexico. Since then she has continued to fight for social justice and the rights of indigenous peoples. In 1992, in San Marcos, Guatemala, she coordinated protests against the celebrations of the 500th anniversary of the landing of Columbus in the New World. She became internationally well known when she was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1992 for her work on behalf of the indigenous peoples of Central America.








Fridtjof Nansen (1861-1930)








Fridtjof Nansen, a Norwegian born in 1861, first achieved notoriety as an arctic explorer. He was a member of the first expedition to cross Greenland in 1888 and was part of a team that tried to






 












Page 55




reach the North Pole between 1893 and 1895. Being in the public eye, he later went on to become the Norwegian minister in London. Nansen was very enthusiastic about the idea of a League of Nations, and he worked hard toward its inception. He became leader of the Norwegian delegation to the League and argued that it had a humanitarian role to play in the world. He worked against difficult odds to convince other member countries to give humanitarian aid where it was needed. Europe was in chaos after World War I, and hundreds of thousands of people were displaced and starving. After the war, Nansen was put in charge of the repatriation of 500,000 prisoners of war, becoming in 1921 the first high commissioner for refugees for the League of Nations. That same year he headed the Red Cross mission to relieve famine in Russia. In 1922, Nansen instituted the Nansen Passport, an identification document for stateless persons without which they were unable to move around or find employment. Nansen was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1922 for his humanitarian work on behalf of casualties of World War I. His efforts to help the impoverished and displaced peoples of Europe did not confine themselves to politics. He used imagination and understanding to develop meaningful aid programs. At his urging, the League of Nations loaned £10 million to exiles living in Greece so they could develop fallow farmland. This was the first economic development project funded by an international organization. Nansen's work to establish a homeland for displaced Armenian people displaced by Turkey was never realized.








Sadako Ogata (1927- )








Sadako Ogata became the United Nations high commissioner for refugees in 1991. She was born Sadako Nakamura in Tokyo, Japan, in 1927 and was the daughter and granddaughter of diplomats. She was educated at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., and at the University of California at Berkeley. She is married to Shijiro Ogata, a Tokyo banker. She was a professor and director and dean of the Institute of International Relations at Sophia University in Tokyo, where she worked until 1990. She was a senior member of the Japanese delegation to the United Nations from 1976 to 1979 and a minister of the Japanese mission to the United Nations from 1978 to 1979. From 1982 to 1985, Ogata was the Japanese representative to the United Nations Commission






 












Page 56




on Human Rights in Geneva. She has served as chairperson to the Executive Board of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). She led the Human Rights Mission in Myanmar (formerly Burma) in 1990 and was a member of the Trilateral Commission in 1984. Ogata was the UN special emissary investigating problems of Cambodian refugees on the Thai-Cambodian border and has, since becoming high commissioner, shown particular interest in instituting programs of repatriation for refugees and developing preventive strategies for dealing with refugee movements. Ogata is the first female high commissioner and one of the few women in the senior leadership of the United Nations, where she has earned a reputation as an energetic and determined advocate for the human rights of refugees, asylum-seekers, and the internally displaced. In 1994, she was the recipient of the International Human Rights Law Group's annual award.








Joyce Pearce (1915-1985)








Born in 1915, Joyce Pearce took a degree in modern history at Oxford University and taught secondary school for a short time. She was one of those rare individuals who believed that one person could make a difference, and she worked to do just that. In 1951, Pearce started the Ockenden Venture when five displaced teenage girls from Eastern Europe were invited to her home in Surrey, England, for "health, home and education." Even Pearce did not realize that from this small beginning the Ockenden Venture would go on to help thousands of refugees. In the beginning, it concentrated its efforts on helping refugee children, but it has branched out to help refugees of all ages as well as disabled and disadvantaged people all over the world. Wherever there was a need, the Ockenden Venture was ready to help. In 1956, it went to the aid of Hungarian refugees. In 1963, Pearce's attention was turned to Tibetan refugees, and she became a close friend of the Dalai Lama. In 1971, Pearce went to Vietnam, set up an orphanage in Saigon, and arranged for seriously ill children to be treated in Britain. She helped refugees from places as far apart as Chile, Ethiopia, and Southeast Asia. The Ockenden Venture encourages refugees to take an active part in the projects it establishes to help them. It now has a number of centers around the world, all funded by charitable donations. Although Pearce died in 1985, the work of the Ockenden Venture continues.






 












Page 57




Philip Rudge (1945- )








Philip Rudge was born in Cheltenham, England, in 1945. He attended London University from 1963 to 1971, earning degrees in English Language and Literature, Philosophy, Economics, Sociology, and Comparative Education in Developing Countries. He was a lecturer at the University of Tuebingen, Germany, from 1969 to 1970. Rudge's life changed direction and his interest in refugee issues grew as a result of his experiences in Laos in the mid-1970s, a time of great upheaval in Southeast Asia. Rudge was then working in Laos as a development aid officer under the Colombo Plan, a project sponsored jointly by the British Council/ Ministry of Overseas Development and the government of Laos. He stayed on in Laos to help with postwar reconstruction. In 1983, Rudge became Reorientation Adviser with World University Service. He was responsible for coordinating programs for Latin American refugees at British universities. Since 1983, Rudge has been general secretary of the London-based European Council on Refugees and Exiles (ECRE), a pan-European network concerned with the treatment of refugees and asylum-seekers in Europe and the development of European governmental refugee policies. During the past decade, Rudge has been a key contributor to the development of this organization. He views work in the refugee field as challenging to head and heart, and says that anyone pursuing refugee work will "need to think about internationalism and solidarity; they will be able to see how the way we live (in the West) all too often depends on the economic and political suppression of others. They will also have the chance to meet some of the most extraordinary human beings."








Raoul Wallenberg (1912-?)








Raoul Wallenberg was born in Sweden in 1912. His mother had been widowed before his birth, and she and his grandparents brought him up. His grandfather was a banker, and the family was one of the most privileged in Sweden. Wallenberg's education took him to Europe to learn languages and to the United States to study architecture. His early career in banking led him to South Africa and Haifa. When President Franklin Roosevelt set up the War Refugee Board and a person from a neutral country was needed to negotiate in Hungary on behalf of the Hungarian Jews,






 












Page 58




Raoul Wallenberg was asked to go. He was given diplomatic status, but the tactics he employed to save Hungarian Jews from the gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau were not all diplomacy. He resorted to bribery and extortion and many times risked his own life to save others. He had thousands of false documents made that declared the holders to be Swedish citizens. He distributed the documents in the ghettoes and even at stations where trains were being loaded for the death camps. He set up safe houses that flew the flag of neutral Sweden, and thousands of Jews sheltered in them. When the Russians liberated Budapest, Wallenberg apparently made the mistake of trusting them. He went off to negotiate with General Malinovsky in 1945 and was never seen again. No one is certain what happened to Raoul Wallenberg.








Elie Wiesel (1928- )








Elie Wiesel was born in 1928 in Sighet, Romania, to Shlomo and Sarah Wiesel. In 1944, when Elie was still a teenager, he and the rest of his family were sent to Auschwitz concentration camp. Wiesel went from Auschwitz to Buchenwald and became the only member of his family to survive the camps. Like so many others after the war, Wiesel was a refugee and went to the United States. Since then, he has taught, written, and lectured about the Holocaust. His unforgettable message is that such horror must never happen again. Wiesel has received numerous awards for his important work. Among them are the Jewish Heritage Award (1965), the Ellis Island Medal of Honor (1992), and the President's Medal of Freedom (1993). In 1986, Wiesel was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his tireless work in the area of human rights. Upon receiving the prize he said, "Sometimes we must interfere. When human lives are endangered, when human dignity is in jeopardy, international borders and sensitivities become irrelevant. Wherever men and women are persecuted because of their race, religion or political views, that place must, for the moment, become the center of the universe. This is awareness in action." Wiesel continues to be a prolific writer and vociferous lecturer against violence, repression, and racism.








Roger Paul Winter (1942- )








Roger Winter was born in Hartford, Connecticut, in 1942. He did his undergraduate work in psychology at Wheaton College in Illinois and his graduate work in urban sociology at the Univer-






 












Page 59




sity of Connecticut. He went on to do antipoverty and social welfare work in Hartford, Chicago, Boston, and New Britain, Connecticut. From 1970 to 1979, Winter worked for the state of Maryland as assistant secretary of human resources and assistant secretary for budget and fiscal planning. In 1980, he became the director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) under the Carter administration, and in that capacity was instrumental in implementing the Refugee Act of 1980. Shortly thereafter, he became director of the U.S. Committee for Refugees (USCR), and he helped make it the country's principal refugee advocacy agency. USCR operates like a human rights agency for refugees, publishes the influential World Refugee Survey, and has had a significant impact over the years in matters such as pirate attacks on boat people, humanitarian assistance in southern Sudan, and the setting up of a legal framework for uprooted people in the former Soviet Union. In January 1994, Winter was made executive director of Immigration and Refugee Services of America, the parent organization of USCR, and, as such, is involved in issues of immigration and diversity. He currently serves as director of USCR. Winter holds that "the worth of individuals [is] paramount [and that] the promotion of justice is a prerequisite for true peaceful relations among people...." Moreover, as an American, he believes that he is "accountable for assisting those who are less well-positioned in life."






 












Page 61




4 Facts, Statistics, and Legal Documents








THIS CHAPTER PROVIDES SOME OF THE MOST IMPORTANT statistics, data, and legal documentation relating to refugees.








Refugee Statistics








Counting refugees is at best an approximate undertaking. Not only is the collection of accurate statistical data on refugees and asylum-seekers extremely problematic, but the figures provided by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and journalists frequently conflict with each other. 








There are several reasons for these differences. The term refugee means different things to different organizations. For the United Nations, refugees are people who have left their country because they have a well-founded fear of persecution or because their safety is threatened by events seriously disturbing public order. Governments will describe refugees as either those people whom they have accepted as recognized refugees or those people who have applied for political asylum. The media and many NGOs, on the other hand, often use a much broader approach, considering a refugee to be anyone who has been forced to leave 61






 












Page 62




their usual place of residence by circumstances beyond their control. These differing interpretations lead to widely varying refugee statistics. 








Apart from definitional problems, there are many practical and political obstacles to the collection of accurate refugee statistics. Contemporary refugee movements are often sudden mass exoduses in which as many as a million people can flee their countries within weeks or even days. In such situations, it is impossible to register all the refugees. Moreover, in many parts of the world refugees do not live in organized camps, but settle with family relatives or among ethnically related local people. Because local populations may themselves register as refugees to receive international assistance, it is often difficult to establish how many refugees actually live in an area. In addition, refugees are highly mobile populations, moving between refugee camps and local communities, frequently registering more than once in order to gain higher levels of assistance, and sometimes even moving back and forth between countries. It is very difficult for agencies to keep track of such movements. It is also the case that governments will at times either deliberately exaggerate the numbers of refugees in order to gain more international assistance or deliberately downplay the numbers in order to not embarrass the country from which the refugees fled. Given these conceptual, practical, and political factors, the statistics can at best be considered approximate figures. 








Table 1 lists the total numbers of refugees and asylum-seekers who are unwilling to repatriate due to fear of persecution and violence in their homelands as of 31 December 1993. This table does not include refugees permanently settled in other countries. In some cases, refugees listed in Table 1 may no longer require assistance, but they still need international protection. Host countries are printed in bold type. 








The global number of refugees has been growing rapidly in the past decade. There are nearly twice as many refugees now as there were in 1984. Most of the growth in recent years has occurred in the developing world, the Middle East, South Asia, and Africa, and as Table 1 illustrates, it is in these regions where most of the world's refugees originated and stayed during the year 1993. Countries such as Tanzania, Iran, and Croatia saw the refugee population that they host swell by hundreds of thousands.






 












Page 63




Table 2 lists selected populations in refugee-like situations as of 31 December 1993. Many people who fear persecution or harm if returned to their home countries, and thus who may be refugees, are not recognized by governments as refugees or asylum-seekers. Some are given temporary refuge or allowed to remain on humanitarian grounds; others remain undocumented. Because information on such groups is fragmentary, this table presents only reported estimates, and no total is provided. 








Table 3 identifies selected countries in which substantial numbers of people have been displaced within their homeland as a result of human conflict or forced relocations. Practically every country that generates refugees also creates internally displaced persons. In recent years, Angola, Mozambique, Afghanistan, Sudan, Peru, Colombia, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Tajikistan have been among many countries whose numbers of internally displaced are in the millions. Although the internally displaced share many characteristics with refugees who cross international borders, they are generally not eligible for protection under international refugee law. Because information on internal displacement is fragmentary, this table presents only reported estimates, and no total is provided. It is important to note, however, that even this selected list includes more than 25 million people, and that the number of internally displaced is undoubtedly much higher. 








Table 4 identifies countries that have generated the greatest number of the world's refugees in recent years. The majority of contemporary refugee movements are caused by war, ethnic strife, and persecution. The countries involved in the most destructive wars of the last decadeAfghanistan, Angola, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Burundi, Cambodia, Georgia, Iran, Iraq, Liberia, Mozambique, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, Vietnam, and the former Yugoslavia-have also been the main sources of refugees. It is also true that the principal sources of the current world refugee problemAngola, Burma, Iran, Iraq and Sudanare among the world's most repressive societies. 








Counts may understate the total number of refugees from a given country, as asylum states do not always specify refugees' countries of origin. This table does not include populations considered to be in the refugee-like circumstances listed in Table 2, many of whom are also refugees. It also does not include refugees or people in refugee-like circumstances who have been offered permanent resettlement and status in another country. Examples






 












Page 64




of such refugees include 42,775 Vietnamese who were resettled in the United States and nearly 105,000 members of religious minorities who departed the former Soviet Union for Israel and the United States in 1993. 








Table 5 reflects estimated numbers of refugees who participated in formal voluntary repatriation programs administered by UNHCR, as well as those who spontaneously returned to their homelands during 1993. The largest repatriations occurred in Afghanistan and Mozambique, and in total, some 2.5 million refugees returned home during 1993. 








Repatriations generally occur under difficult conditions. Nevertheless, in recent years the international community has begun to give much greater attention to repatriation and even to returning refugees to countries that continue to experience widespread conflict. There is hope that millions of refugees may be able to return safely to their homes in Africa, South Asia, the Middle East, Europe, and elsewhere in the next few years. Accordingly, UNHCR has declared the 1990s as the ''decade of repatriation" and has committed a high proportion of its resources to repatriation programs. Much will depend on continued progress toward peace in countries still undergoing civil conflict and on the willingness of the international community to encourage and support repatriation and reconstruction. 








Table 6 lists some instances of involuntary returns and expulsions that occurred during 1993. The United Nations Refugee Convention and Protocol prohibits the forced repatriation of refugees (refoulement), and governments rarely force the repatriation of persons they acknowledge to be refugees. More often, however, they forcibly repatriate persons who are either denied access to refugee determination procedures or who are subjected to unfair procedures. Not all the persons listed on this table are bona fide refugees; instead, they were expelled under questionable procedures, which could result in refoulement of genuine refugees among those returned. As this is not a comprehensive list, no total is given. 








Table 7 lists refugees in relation to total population and per capita gross national product (GNP) of the asylum country in 1993. The table demonstrates that the greatest burden of refugee flows is borne by the world's poorest countries. The sheer size of refugee populations and their rapid growth seriously strain host countries. For example, in the aftermath of the Gulf War, Jordan played host to 1 million refugeesone for every four of its citi-






 












Page 65




zens! Malawi, one of Africa's poorest and most densely populated countries, gave refuge to nearly 1 million Mozambican refugeesequivalent to about one-tenth of its population. The Iranian government granted asylum and assistance to more than 1 million Kurdish and Shi'ite Muslim refugees from Iraq on top of an existing refugee population of more than 2 million Afghans and another 400,000 Iraqis who had fled Iraq during the previous decade. Mass refugee influxes can endanger social and economic security, particularly in countries already suffering from economic underdevelopment, unstable political systems, and ethnic and other social cleavages.








Donor governments assist refugees through direct assistance to host governments, usually in the form of food aid, and by supporting international agencies and nongovernmental organizations. Donor governments support the international refugee agencies through annual contributions to their budgets.








Table 8 lists the top 20 countries that contributed to international refugee aid agencies during 1993. The table ranks countries by the financial contribution of their governments per capita. The United States was the largerst single donor in 1993. However, the U.S. contribution per capita ranks only number eight among donor countries. The most generous countries on a per capita basis are the Nordic states.








U.S. contributions have not grown nearly as quickly as the number of refugees, nor as quickly as the contributions of other donors. Up until the mid-1980s, U.S. contributions for humanitarian assistance generally kept pace with the explosive growth in refugee numbers. Then, during 1985-1989, U.S. financial support declined consistently. For example, its share of the UNHCR's total expenditures dropped from 30 percent in 1982 to 22 percent in 1989, during a period when the number of refugees under UNHCR care increased by 50 percent. American financial support for the International Committee of the Red Cross, another important refugee agency, dropped from 30 percent to 15 percent of the agency's total expenditures, from 1985 to 1988. One reason for the decline in U.S. aid for overseas refugees is the increase in spending on refugee admissions, primarily for those refugees from the former Soviet Union and Southeast Asia. Recent American administrations have done little to rectify the situation. Since the end of the Cold War, the major donor governments have lost interest in the now much less strategic regions where many refugees are located. As a result, the Western powers,






 












Page 66




including the United States, are not investing the resources that countries experiencing refugee flows or just emerging from conflict need to make the transition to peace, development, and economic stability.








The generosity of the industrialized states can also be measured by the number of refugees resettled and granted asylum in relation to domestic population. 








Table 9 details the numbers of refugees resettled and persons granted asylum in relation to total population in the major resettlement countries of North America, Europe, and Australia from 1975 to 1992. The most generous countries are Sweden, Canada, and Australia, with the United States ranked fourth out of 14 countries. 








Overall, in terms of both financial aid and resettlement of refugees, the Scandanavian countries are the most generous of the industrialized nations; southern European countries are the least generous; and the traditional resettlement countriesthe United States, Canada, and Australiaare in the middle. Although Japan has substantially increased its financial contributions in recent years, it stands out as a rich country that provides mid-level assistance but admits practically no refugeesa record that could clearly stand continued improvement. 








Table 10 lists the numbers of asylum applications in Western Europe, North America, and Australia from 1983 to 1992. The annual totals for those countries covered in the table have increased from 90,400 in 1983 to 825,200 in 1992. Over 3 million applications have been made in Europe during the past decade. Governments are skeptical of the claims of political persecution made by the majority of asylum applicants, and, as a result, the acceptance rate for asylum applicants in Europe in 1993 was less than 5 percent. Nevertheless, governments permitted most of the more than 1 million rejected asylum applicants over the past decade to stay under temporary statuses. The numbers of asylum applications make heavy demands on asylum adjudication systems and have caused great expense. Care for asylum applicants in industrial countries and adjudication of their claims are estimated to cost from $8 billion to $10 billion annually. This contrasts with a 1993 budget for the UNHCR of approximately $1.5 billion. 








Table 11 details the numbers of emigrants from Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union to the West from 1984 to 1992. With the disintegration of communist regimes at the end of the 1980s, citizens from former Eastern Bloc countries arriving in






 












Page 67




Western Europe represented the biggest population movement the continent had seen since the late 1940s. In 1989, over 1.2 million people left Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union for the West. During the next two years, the East-to-West flow moderated, with 923,000 moving westward in 1990 and 800,000 in 1991. Most of the emigrants have been members of ethnic minority or religious groups with close links to receiving countries such as Germany, Hungary, Turkey, the United States, Israel, and Greece. But there have also been unanticipated outflows of war refugees from the former republics of Yugoslavia, of boat people from Albania, and of Gypsies and other minorities from Romania.








In the early 1990s, emigration from Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovinia, and Kosovo to other European countries increased dramatically as a result of ethnically motivated violence and prolonged and brutal civil war among Yugoslavia's erstwhile republics. By 1994, more than 2.5 million had been displaced in the former Yugoslavia, and several hundred thousand had taken refuge in Germany, Hungary, Austria, Italy, and Sweden. Any extension of the war into Macedonia or Kosovo, with an attendant and massive spillover of ethnic conationals into Albania, Greece, Turkey, or Bulgaria, could internationalize the conflict and increase the likelihood of further refugee outflows.








Table 12 gives the ceilings for U.S. refugee admissions by region from fiscal years (FY) 1986 to 1993. The refugee resettlement program in the United States has, in recent years, increasingly resettled persons leaving their home countries through direct departure programs rather than refugees who have fled to countries of asylum. This table demonstrates that the great majority of refugees admitted to the United States over the past eight years have originated from Asia (mostly Vietnamese, Laotians, and Cambodians) and from the former Soviet Union (mainly Jews, Armenians, and Pentacostal Christians). In addition, increasing proportions of those resettled have weak claims to refugee status. U.S. resettlement slots for refugees in regions with the largest refugee concentrations (Africa and countries hosting Muslim refugees) are comparatively few. For example, the United States has always had a low ceiling for the number of African refugees to be resettled here. Although the number has been raised in recent years, the allocation for Africa still represents a small percentage of the overall number of persons admitted to the United States as refugees each year. The resettlement priorities of the United States have always been strongly biased by foreign






 












Page 68




policy and ideological considerations. Even though the number of refugees worldwide continues to grow, the U.S. resettlement program will probably shrink over the next few years, and it is unlikely that any reduction in U.S. resettlement will be compensated by increases in the resettlement programs of Canada and Australia, the other principal resettlement countries.








Table 13 lists the numbers of asylum cases filed with immigration and naturalization service asylum officers and those cases approved or denied, by selected nationalities, from April 1991 to September 1993 in the United States. Persecution of individuals is supposed to be the criteria upon which asylum decisions are made, but foreign policy and ideological considerations continue to influence these decisions. Throughout the 1980s, asylum adjudications clearly showed that an applicant's country of origin and the relationship of that country to the U.S. government were the primary factors determining the granting of asylum. For example, a 1987 U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO) study of asylum compared the treatment of four different nationalitiesSalvadorans, Nicaraguans, Poles, and Iranians. The study found that "aliens who stated on their application forms that they were arrested, imprisoned, had their life threatened, or were tortured had much lower approval rates if they were from El Salvador and Nicaragua than if they were from Poland or Iran." Among asylum-seekers making such claims, the approval rates were: Iranians, 64 percent; Poles, 55 percent; Nicaraguans, 7 percent; and Salvadorans, 3 percent. Only Haitians (1.8 percent) and Guatemalans (0.9 percent) fared worse. Moreover, of the four groups examined in the GAO study, only Salvadorans were deported to their home country after having been denied asylum.








In 1992 and 1993, most asylum applicants came from the Western Hemisphere. Salvadorans and Nicaraguans were arriving in smaller numbers, only to be replaced by Guatemalans who accounted for some 40 percent of the total applications in 1992. The island nations of Haiti and Cuba present the greatest risk of mass, uncontrolled refugee movement to the United States in the near future.








Table 14 details the budget of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees by region for 1991 and 1992. The table indicates that Africa and Asia consume the largest resources, but that in recent years refugee emergencies in Europe have required larger financial attention. In general, UNHCR expenditures have tracked the shifts in geographic distribution of






 












Page 69




refugees around the world, and they continue to grow as refugee numbers increase.








The most significant institutional weakness of the UNHCR is its dependence on voluntary contributions to carry out its programs. Less than 5 percent of the UNHCR's annual expenditures are covered by the UN regular budget; the remainder of UNHCR's funding and resources comes from national governments. Its assistance programs are divided broadly into general and special programs. Each year the High Commissioner's Executive Committee approves a General Program budget, which comprises activities financed through the annual program as well as the Emergency Fund, and appeals to all UN members to provide the resources needed to cover the program year. The primary allocation of these resources goes to the traditional areas of the High Commissioner's competence: emergency relief, voluntary repatriation, integration into host societies, and resettlement.








In addition to its General Program budget, UNHCR, at the request of the secretary-general or the UN General Assembly, undertakes Special Programs, which include major new and unforeseen emergency operations and transportation and rehabilitation assistance to refugees and displaced people who have returned to their homes. Special Programs are the subject of specific fund-raising appeals to interested governments and are financed from trust funds constricted with particular purposes and conditions. Thus, the UNHCR must raise funds for each new refugee problem.








The level of annual UNHCR expenditures has increased progressively over the years. Until the mid-1970s, the UNHCR spent only modest sums, the annual average remaining less than $10 million during the 1960s and just exceeding $20 million during the early 1970s. Annual expenditures rose from $9 million in 1971 to $135 million in 1978, and from $270 million in 1979 to nearly $500 million in 1980. The dramatic leaps in expenditures were in response to major refugee emergencies in Indochina, Africa, and Afghanistan. During the 1980s, the annual spending of UNHCR remained over $400 million, and, even allowing for inflation, the level of expenditures amounted to a fifteenfold increase over the early 1970s.








The 1990s have presented UNHCR with several new refugee emergencies and its overall expenditures have therefore continued to grow. In 1991, as a result of emergency relief operations in northern Iraq and in the Horn of Africa, total voluntary funds






 












Page 70




expenditure amounted to $882.9 million, an increase of almost 60 percent over 1990. In 1992, new refugee and humanitarian crises in the former Yugoslavia, Bangladesh, the Horn of Africa, and Southern Africa, as well as continued responsibilities in northern Iraq and new repatriation programs in Cambodia, Ethiopia, and Angola, pushed UNHCR expenditures over $1 billion.



TABLE 1Refugees and Asylum-Seekers in Need of Protection and/or Assistance (as of 31 December 1993)





AFRICA








TOTAL5,825,000



Algeria




121,000*








West Sahara








80,000*



Mali




35,000



Niger




6,000



Angola




11,000



Zaire




11,000



Benin




120,000



Togo




120,000



Botswana




500



Burkina Faso




6,000



Mali




6,000



Burundi




110,000*



Rwanda




85,000*



Zaire




25,000



Cameroon




2,500



Chad




2,000



Other




500



Central African Republic




41,000



Sudan




23,000



Chad




18,000



Congo




13,000



Angola




10,000



Chad




2,000



Other




1,000



Cote d'lvoire




250,000



Liberia




250,000



Djibouti




60,000



Somalia




40,000



Ethiopia




20,000



Egypt




11,000



Somalia




6,000



Palestinians




4,300



Ethiopia




400



Other




300



Ethiopia




156,000*



Somalia




100,000*



Sudan




43,000



Djibouti




7,000






 












Page 71




TABLE 1 (continued)









Kenya








6,000



Gabon




200








Gambia








2,000



Senegal




2,000



Ghana




133,000



Togo




120,000



Liberia




13,000



Guinea




570,000*



Liberia




420,000*



Sierra Leone




150,000*



Guinea-Bissau




16,000



Senegal




16,000



Kenya




332,000*



Somalia




280,000*



Sudan




37,000



Ethiopia




10,000



Other




5,000



Lesotho




100



South Africa




100



Liberia




110,000



Sierra Leone




110,000



Malawi




700,000



Mozambique




700,000



Mali




13,000



Mauritania




13,000



Mauritania




46,000



Mali




46,000



Namibia




5,000



Niger




3,000



Chad




3,000



Nigeria




4,400



Liberia




3,000



Chad




1,400



Rwanda




370,000



Burundi




370,000



Senegal




66,000



Mauritania




66,000



Sierra Leone




15,000



Liberia




15,000



South Africa




300,000*



Mozambique




300,000*



Sudan




633,000*



Eritrea




420,000*



Ethiopia




200,000*



Chad




7,000*



Other




6,000



Swaziland




57,000



Mozambique




50,000



South Africa




7,000



Tanzania




479,500



Burundi




350,000



Mozambique




60,000






 












Page 72




TABLE 1 (continued)









Rwanda








50,000



Zaire




15,000



South Africa




3,000



Somalia




1,200



Other




300



Uganda




257,000*



Sudan




150,000



Rwanda




90,000*



Zaire




15,000



Other




2,000



Zaire




452,000



Angola




200,000



Sudan




120,000



Burundi




60,000



Rwanda




50,000



Uganda




20,000



Other




2,000



Zambia




158,500



Angola




120,000



Mozambique




22,000



Zaire




13,000



South Africa




500



Other




3,000



Zimbabwe




200,000



Mozambique




200,000



EUROPE AND NORTH AMERICA




TOTAL-2,785,000



Armenia




290,000*



Azerbaijan




290,000*



Austria




77,700



Former Yugoslavia




74,300



Other




3,400



Azerbaijan




251,000*



Armenia




200,000*



Uzbekistan




51,000



Belarus




10,400



Belgium




32,900



Former Yugoslavia




6,000



Other




26,900



Bosnia and Herzegovina




70,000*



Former Yugoslavia




70,000*



Canada




20,500



Croatia




280,000*



Former Yugoslavia




280,000*



Czech Republic




6,300



Former Yugoslavia




4,100



Other




2,200



Denmark




23,300



Former Yugoslavia




17,300



Other




6,000



Finland




3,700



Former Yugoslavia




2,200



Other




100






 












Page 73




TABLE 1 (continued)









France








30,900



Former Yugoslavia




7,000



Other




23,900



Germany




529,100*



Former Yugoslavia




300,000*



Other




299,100



Greece




800



Hungary




10,000



Former Yugoslavia




10,000



Italy




33,550*



Former Yugoslavia




32,000*



Other




1,500



Luxembourg




1,500



Former Yugoslavia




1,300



Other




200



Macedonia




12,100



Former Yugoslavia




12,000



Other




100



Netherlands




35,400



Norway




14,200



Former Yugoslavia




12,500



Other




1,700



Poland




600



Portugal




2,250



Former Yugoslavia




150



Other




2,100



Romania




1,000



Russian Federation




347,500*



Georgia




143,000*



Tajikistan




108,000*



Armenia/Azerbaijan




52,000*



Afghanistan




25,000



Somalia




6,500



Iraq




6,000



Other




7,000



Slovak Republic




1,900



Former Yugoslavia




1,900



Slovenia




38,000*



Former Yugoslavia




38,000*



Spain




14,000



Former Yugoslavia




2,200



Other




11,800



Sweden




58,800*



Former Yugoslavia




50,000*



Other




8,800



Switzerland




27,000



Former Yugoslavia




14,500



Other




12,500



Turkey




24,600*



Former Yugoslavia




20,000*



Iraq




4,000



Iran




500



Other




100






 












Page 74




TABLE 1 (continued)









United Kingdom








28,100



Former Yugoslavia




6,600



Other




21,500



United States




150,400



Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro)




357,000*



Former Yugoslavia




357,000*



LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN




TOTAL-102,000



Belize




8,900



El Salvador




6,100



Guatemala




2,200



Nicaragua




300



Honduras




200



Other




100



Bolivia




600



Colombia




350



Other




250



Brazil




1,000



Chile




100



Peru




100



Colombia




400



Costa Rica




24,800



Nicaragua




20,000



El Salvador




4,300



Other




500



Dominican Republic




1,300



Haiti




1,300



Ecuador




100



Colombia




100



El Salvador




150



Nicaragua




150



Guatemala




4,700



El Salvador




2,400



Nicaragua




2,200



Other




100



Honduras




100



Mexico




52,000



Guatemala




47,000



El Salvador




4,000



Other




1,000



Nicaragua




4,750



El Salvador




4,700



Other




50



Panama




950



El Salvador




400



Nicaragua




300



Other




250



Peru




400



Cuba




400



Venezuela




1,300



Cuba




1,000



Haiti




200



Nicaragua




100






 












Page 75




TABLE 1 (continued) 









EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC








TOTAL-468,000



Australia




2,950



China




296,900*



Vietnam




285,500



Burma




10,000*



Laos




1,400



Hong Kong




3,500



Vietnam




3,550



Indonesia




2,400



Vietnam




1,900



Cambodia




500



Japan




950



Vietnam




900



Other




50



Malaysia




8,150



Burma




5,100



Indonesia




1,700



Vietnam




1,150



Former Yugoslavia




200



Papua New Guinea




7,700



Indonesia




7,700



Philippines




1,700



Vietnam




1,700



Thailand




108,300



Burma




74,000



Laos




25,100



Vietnam




8,800



Sri Lanka




250



Other




150



Vietnam




35,000



Cambodia




35,000



MIDDLE EAST




TOTAL-4,924,000



Gaza Strip




603,000



Palestinians




603,000



Iran




1,995,000*



Afghanistan




1,900,000*



Iraq




95,000



Iraq




39,500



Iran




38,500



Other




1,000



Jordan




1,073,600



Palestinians




1,073,000



Former Yugoslavia




400



Other




200



Lebanon




329,000



Palestinians




328,000



Other




1,000



Saudi Arabia




25,000



Iraq




25,000



Syria




319,200



Palestinians




314,000



Iraq




4,700






 












Page 76




TABLE 1 (continued)









Somalia








500



West Bank




479,000



Palestinians




479,000



Yemen




60,500



Somalia




57,000



Ethiopia




1,800



Eritrea




1,500



Other




200



SOUTH AND CENTRAL ASIA




TOTAL-2,151,000



Afghanistan




35,000



Tajikistan




35,000



Bangladesh




199,000



Burma




198,800



Other




200



India




325,600*



China (Tibet)




119,000



Sri Lanka




106,400*



Bangladesh




53,500



Afghanistan




24,400



Bhutan




20,000*



Burma




1,600



Other




700



Kazakhstan




6,500



Tajikistan




6,500



Kyrgyzstan




3,500



Tajikistan




3,500



Nepal




99,100



Bhutan




85,100



China (Tibet)




14,000



Pakistan




1,482,300



Afghanistan




1,480,000



Other




2,300



Tajikistan




400



Afghanistan




400



GRAND TOTAL




16,255,000



*Indicates that sources vary significantlly in the number reported.




Figures for Europe and North America are generally those for individuals who applied for asylum in 1993, except for countries such as Armenia, Croatia, and others that do not use individualized asylum procedures. U.S. Committee for Refugees considers Bosnians and Croatians as having a prima facie claim to refugee status within the parameters of the Refugee Convention and has therefore attempted to include all such persons who have received temporary legal status, applied for asylum in 1993, or have been excluded from applying for status. Because many countries do not report the republic or origin of ''former Yugoslavs," this table may include under that heading other asylum-seekers from the former Yugoslavia.








Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1994.






 












Page 77TABLE 2 Selected Populations in Refugee-Like 
Situations (as of 31 December 1993)





Host Country



OriginNumberJordanPalestinians




750,000



IranIraq




500,000



RussiaFormer USSR




460,000



PakistanAfghanistan




400,000



ThailandBurma




350,000



BangladeshPakistan (Biharis)




238,000



BurundiRwanda




170,000



Saudi ArabiaSomalia




150,000



IraqKuwait (Bidoon)




130,000



LebanonPalestinians




125,000



KuwaitBidoon




120,000



UgandaRwanda




120,000



EgyptPalestinians




100,000



MexicoGuatemala




100,000



IraqPalestinians




70,000



TurkeyIran




50,000



CameroonChad




40,000



SyriaPalestinians




40,000



EcuadorColombia




30,000



HondurasCentral Americans




30,000



JordanIraq




30,000



UzbekistanTajikistan




30,000



VenezuelaColombia




30,000



Hong KongVietnam




27,560



KuwaitPalestinians




25,000



Dominican RepublicHaiti




25,000



MauritaniaSenegal




22,000



HungaryFormer Yugoslavia




20,000



NamibiaAngola




20,000



Southeast AsiaVietnam




19,600



Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1994.


 












Page 78




TABLE 3 Selected List of Countries with 
Significant Populations of Internally 
Displaced Civilians (as of 31 December 1993)









Sudan








4,000,000



South Africa




4,000,000



Mozambique




2,000,000



Angola




2,000,000



Bosnia




1,300,000



Liberia




1,000,000



Iraq




1,000,000



Lebanon




700,000



Somalia




700,000



Zaire




700,000



Azerbaijan




600,000



Sri Lanka




600,000



Peru




600,000



Burma




500,000-1,000,000



Burundi




500,000



Ethiopia




500,000



Sierra Leone




400,000



Croatia




350,000



Colombia




300,000-600,000



Haiti




300,000



Kenya




300,000



Rwanda




300,000



Cyprus




265,000



Iran




260,000



Georgia




250,000



India




250,000



Philippines




200,000-1,000,000



Eritrea




200,000



Guatemala




200,000



Togo




150,000



Djibouti




140,000



Cambodia




95,000



Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993.


 












Page 79




TABLE 4 Principal Sources of the World's 
Refugees and Asylum-Seekers (as of 31 December 1993) 









Afghanistan








3,429,800*



Palestinians




2,801,300



Mozambique




1,332,000*



Former Yugoslavia




1,319,650*



Burundi




780,000



Liberia




701,000*



Somalia




491,200*



Eritrea




421,500*



Sudan




373,000



Angola




335,000



Vietnam




303,500



Azerbaijan




290,000*



Burma




289,500



Rwanda




275,000*



Sierra Leone




260,000*



Togo




240,000



Ethiopia




232,200



Armenia




200,000*



Tajikistan




153,000*



Georgia




143,000*



Iraq




134,700



China




133,000



Sri Lanka




106,650*



Bhutan




105,100*



Mali




87,000



Western Sahara




80,000'



Zaire




79,000



Mauritania




79,000



Bangladesh




53,500



Uzbekistan




51,000



Guatemala




49,200



Iran




39,000



Cambodia




35,500



Chad




33,400



Laos




26,500



Nicaragua




23,050



El Salvador




21,900



Uganda




20,000



Senegal




18,000



South Africa




10,600



*Indicates that sources vary widely in number reported. 




Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993.






 












Page 80




TABLE 5 Significant Voluntary Repatriations1993









To



FromNumberAfghanistanIran




337,500



AfghanistanPakistan




358,800



BurmaBangladesh




36,100



CambodiaThailand




128,500



ChadSudan




11,000



El SalvadorBelize and Costa Rica




250



EritreaSudan




10,000



EthiopiaKenya




56,000



EthiopiaSudan




13,000



GuatemalaMexico




5,100



HaitiBahamas




350



HaitiCuba




1,400



IndonesiaPapua New Guinea




200



LaosChina




2,600



LaosThailand




3,900



LiberiaGhana




7,000



LiberiaGuinea and Cote d'lvoire




70,000



MaliAlgeria, Burkina Faso, Mauritania




5,000



MozambiqueMalawi and others




500,000



NicaraguaCosta Rica and Guatemala




300



SomaliaKenya




50,000



Sri LankaIndia




6,900



TajikistanAfghanistan




25,000



UgandaKenya




1,000



VietnamHong Kong and others




19,200



Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993.




TABLE 6 Involuntary Returns and Expulsions1993









From



ToNumberBangladeshBurma




16,000



CroatiaBosnia




300



Dominican RepublicHaiti




600



Hong KongVietnam




450



KenyaSomalia




1,300



MexicoGuatemala




130,000



South AfricaMozambique




65,000



SudanEthiopia




22



ThailandBurma




1,400



ThailandCambodia




576



TurkeyIraq




19



United StatesHaiti2,329Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993.


 












Page 81




TABLE 7 Refugees in Relation to Total Population and Per Capita GNP of the Asylum Country1993









Country



Ratio of Refugee Population to Total PopulationNumber of RefugeesTotal Population (in millions)Per Capita GNP (in US$)Gaza Strip*




1:1








603,000








0.7








N/A



West Bank*




1:3








479,000








1.6








N/A



Jordan




1:4








1,073,600








3.8








1,120



Djibouti




1:8








60,000








0.5








N/A



Guinea




1:11








570,000








6.2








450



Lebanon




1:11








329,000








3.6








N/A



Armenia




1:12








300,000








3.6








2,150



Swaziland




1:14








57,000








0.8








1,060



Malawi




1:14








700,000








10.0








230



Croatia




1:16








280,000








4.4








N/A



Rwanda




1:20








370,000








7.4








260



Belize




1:22








8,900








0.2








2,050



Liberia




1:25








110,000








2.8








N/A



Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro)




1:27








357,000








9.8








N/A



Azerbaijan




1:29








251,000








7.2








1,670



Iran




1:31








1,995,000








62.8








2,320



Syria




1:42








319,200








13.5








1,110



Benin




1:43








120,000








5.1








380



Sudan




1:43








633,000








27.4








400



Mauritania




1:48








46,000








2.2








510



Slovenia




1:53








38,000








2.0








N/A



Burundi




1:53








110,000








5.8








210



Zimbabwe




1:54








200,000








10.7








620



Cote d'lvoire




1:54








250,000








13.4








690



Zambia




1:54








158,500








8.6








420



* Territories, not sovereign states.




Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993. Primary source for total population and GNP data: Population Reference Bureau, Inc.






 












Page 82




TABLE 8 1993 Government Contributions to International Refugee Aid Agencies Top 20 Countries (Ranked by contribution per capita)









Country



ContributionPer Capita (in US$)Population(in millions)Contribution(in millions) of US $)Per Capita GNP (in US$)Norway




14.12








4.3








60.71








24,160



Sweden




11.31








8.7








98.43








25,490



Denmark




8.14








5.2








42.31








23,660



Netherlands




6.46








15.2








98.20








18,560



Switzerland




5.56








7.0








38.95








33,510



Luxembourg




2.95








0.4








1.18








31,080



Finland




2.50








5.1








12.72








24,400



United States




1.74








258.3








451.99








22,560



Canada




1.68








28.1








47.10








21,260



United Kingdom




1.48








58.0








85.62








16,750



Kuwait




1.15








1.7








1.95








N/A



Japan




1.14








124.8








141.99








26,920



France




0.95








57.7








54.55








20,600



Belgium




0.92








10.1








9.26








19,300



Australia




0.68








17.8








12.04








16,590



Germany




0.66








81.1








53.36








23,650*



Austria




0.50








7.9








3.95








20,380



Italy




0.50








57.8








28.93








18,580



Ireland




0.43








3.6








1.53








10,780



New Zealand




0.25








3.4








0.86








12,140



* GNP data include former West Germany only. 




Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993. Primary source for population and GNP data: Population Reference Bureau, Inc.






 












Page 83




TABLE 9 Refugees Resettled and Persons Granted Asylum in Relation to Total Population (In order of refugees/asylees to total population ratio)









Resettlement Country



1975-1992 Cumulative1992 OnlyTotal Population (in millions)Ratio of Refugees/Asylees to Total PopulationSweden




152,608








12,791








8.7








1:57



Canada




407,379








36,409








28.1








1:69



Australia




205,862








9,758








17.8








1:86



United States




1,731,090








137,395








258.3








1:149



Denmark




34,089








4,100








5.2








1:153



Norway




27,410*








2,830








4.3








1:157



Switzerland




32,297








8,839








7.0








1:217



France




227,085








10,943








57.7








1:254



New Zealand




13,028








800








3.4








1:261



Austria




29,007








2,289








7.9








1:272



Netherlands




30,300








4,553








15.2








1:502



Germany




112,264








9,189








81.1








1:722



Spain




39,166








296








39.1








1:998



United Kingdom




35,032*








16,435








58.0








1:1,656



Note: The primary source for numbers on refugees resettled or granted asylum was the U.S. State Department. Countries that have established resettlement programs generally provide particularly precise data, but data were not available for all countries for all years. Israel is not included because it does not differentiate between resettled refugees and immigrants. The primary source for total population was the Population Reference Bureau, Inc. 




* Statistics were unavailable for 1975-1981. 








 Does not include ethnic Germans from the former Soviet Union, Poland, and Romania.








Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993.






 












Page 84




TABLE 10 Asylum Applications in Western Europe, North America, and Australia, 1983-1992









1983



198419851986198719881989199019911992Cumulative 1983-1992Australia


























































500








3,600








16,000








4,100








24,200



Austria




5,900








7,200








6,700








8,700








11,400








15,800








21,900








22,800








27,300








16,200








143,900



Belgium




2,900








3,700








5,300








7,700








6,000








5,100








8,100








13,000








15,200








17,800








84,800



Canada




5,000








7,100








8,400








23,000








35,000








45,000








22,000








36,000








30,500








37,700








249,700



Denmark




800








4,300








8,700








9,300








2,800








4,700








4,600








5,300








4,600








13,900








59,000



Finland








































50








50








200








2,500








2,100








3,600








8,500



France




14,300








15,900








25,800








23,400








24,800








31,600








60,000








56,000








46,500








27,500








325,800



Germany




19,700








35,300








73,900








99,700








57,400








103,100








121,000








193,000








256,100








438,200








1,397,400



Italy




3,000








4,500








5,400








6,500








11,000








1,300








2,200








4,700








31,700








2,500








72,800



Netherlands




2,000








2,600








5,700








5,900








13,500








7,500








14,000








21,200








21,600








17,500








111,500



Norway




200








300








900








2,700








8,600








6,600








4,400








4,000








4,600








5,200








37,500



Spain




1,400








1,100








2,300








2,300








2,500








3,300








4,000








8,600








8,100








11,700








45,300



Sweden




3,000








12,000








14,500








14,600








18,100








19,600








32,000








29,000








27,300








83,200








253,300



Switzerland




7,900








7,500








9,700








8,600








10,900








16,700








24,500








36,000








41,600








18,100








181,500



UK




4,300








3,900








5,500








4,800








5,200








5,100








10,000








30,000








57,700








24,600*








151,100



USA




20,000








24,300








20,000








18,900








26,100








57,000








100,000








73,600








70,000








103,400








513,300



Total




90,400








129,700








192,800








236,100








233,350








322,450








429,400








539,300








660,900








825,200








3,659,600



* Excluding dependents. 




Source: UN High Commissioner for Refugees, 1994.






 












Page 85




TABLE 11 Emigration from East Europe and the Former USSR to the West, 1984-1992









1984



19851986198719881989199019911992Asylum- Seekers




25,000








30,000








41,000








48,000








91,000








127,000








156,000








245,000








170,600



Jews from USSR




1,000








1,000








4,000








6,000








30,000








71,000








220,000








173,000








115,000*



German Settlers




77,000








64,000








69,000








98,000








240,000








720,000








397,000








222,000








230,500



Former Yugoslav Asylum- Seekers












































































250,000



Former Yugoslav Temporarily Protected












































































350,000



Others (estimate)




6,000








6,000








10,000








25,000








50,000








300,000








150,000








160,000








700,000



Total109,000101,000124,000177,000411,0001,218,000923,000800,0001,816,100* Former USSR.




Albanians, Baltics, Bulgarians, Pontian Greeks, Romanians, Russians, and some other groups.








 Source: Secretariat for Inter-Governmental Consultations, Vienna, 1993.








TABLE 12 Ceilings for U.S. Refugee Admissions by Region, Fiscal Years (FY) 1986-1993









Region



FY 86FY 87FY 88FY 89FY 90FY 91FY 92FY 93Africa




3,500








2,000








3,000








2,000








3,000








4,900








6,000








7,000



Asia




45,500








40,500








38,000








50,000








51,500








52,000








52,000








52,000



Near East & South Asia




6,000








10,200








9,000








7,000








6,500








5,000








6,000








7,000



Latin America




3,000








1,000








3,500








3,500








3,500








3,100








3,000








3,500



Eastern Europe




0








0








0








0








0








5,000








3,000








1,500



Soviet Union 




9,500








12,300








30,000








50,000








50,000








50,000








61,000








50,000



Unallocated Reserve




4,000








4,000








4,000








4,000








1,000








1,000*








1,000*



Total




67,500








70,000








87,500








116,500








118,500








131,000*








142,000*








132,000*



* In addition, there are 10,000 unallocated numbers funded through the Private Sector Initiative (PSI).




Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993. Interpreter Releases, Vol. 67, No. 38, 5 Oct. 1991, Vol. 68, No. 40, 21 Oct. 1991, pp. 1493-1494, and Vol. 69, No. 41, 26 Oct. 1992, pp. 1377-1378.






 












Page 86




TABLE 13 Asylum Cases Filed with Immigration and Naturalization Service Asylum Officers Approved and Denied, by Selected Nationalities, April 1991-September 1993









April 1991-September 1993



Fiscal Year 93 (Preliminary)CountryApproval Rate for Cases DecidedCases GrantedCases DeniedApplications FiledApproval Rate for Cases DecidedCases GrantedCases DeniedPending as of 9/30/93Total*




27.3%








9,436








25,061








150,386








22.0%








5,105








18,110








329,817



Somalia




85.4%








217








37








178








76.0%








92








29








584



Sudan




79.3%








157








41








254








76.6%








98








30








620



Syria




67.6%








244








117








872








73.5%








230








83








1,314



Iran




64.3%








421








234








728








58.7%








229








161








2,523



Iraq




64.3%








117








65








228








62.4%








68








41








530



China




63.6%








525








301








14,354








49.4%








250








256








17,509



Ethiopia




59.1%








655








454








1,383








46.3%








296








343








3,533



Afghanistan




54.9%








101








83








278








38.9%








42








66








794



Former Yugoslavia




49.3%








351








361








2,425








50.4%








303








298








5,024



Cuba




49.2%








414








427








3,010








50.0%








249








249








5,433



Liberia




43.6%








323








417








1,192








37.0%








166








283








4,590



Former USSR




40.9%








957








1,381








5,913








37.1%








621








1,055








12,804



Peru




28.8%








199








491








3,244








26.3%








142








398








4,036



Ghana




26.8%








22








60








1,572








21.2%








14








52








2,086



India




25.8%








372








1,068








5,902








23.8%








306








981








7,427



Lebanon




24.7%








94








287








690








19.3%








39








163








1,743



Haiti




23.7%








608








1,959








11,377








22.8%








525








1,776








13,596



Laos




22.6%








122








418








825








16.2%








66








342








1,756



Romania




20.8%








301








1,147








1,591








18.1%








174








789








4,825



Bangladesh




15.7%








24








129








3,759








15.1%








22








124








4,614








Table continued on next page






 












Page 87




continued from previous page









Pakistan








14.9%








167








952








4,653








12.2%








127








911








6,588



Bulgaria




13.8%








85








530








584








12.2%








47








339








1,672



Colombia




13.8%








27








168








1,315








11.3%








18








142








1,780



Fiji




11.9%








42








312








312








12.8%








33








224








1,004



Nicaragua




10.7%








388








3,251








4,286








7.8%








178








2,097








22,602



El Salvador




9.5%








165








1,574








15,362








4.6%








65








1,345








57,998



Sierra Leone




8.8%








22








229








547








8.1%








20








225








929



Guatemala




8.7%








209








2,194








34,681








6.5%








135








1,952








99,928



Honduras




8.3%








45








491








2,836








6.3%








27








402








4,356



Philippines




4.8%








52








1,037








4,107








4.4%








41








891








7,442



Poland




1.3%








5








374








1,059








0.9%








2








221








2,888



Mexico




0.0%








0








504








6,192








0.0%








0








491








0.0%



* The total includes all nationalities, not just those listed here. Country-specific fiscal year 1993 data supplied by Immigration and Naturalization Service include only nationalities for which more than 500 cases are pending.




 Figures include all former republics.








Source: U.S. Department of Justice, Immigration and Naturalization Service. Tabulated by the U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993.






 












Page 88




TABLE 14 UNHCR Budget by Region for 1991 and 1992-All Sources of Funds (In thousands of U.S. dollars)









Region








1991








1992



Africa




303,338.9








298,169.9



Asia




425,310.0








327,463.9



Europe




26,845.0








327,998.3



Latin America




43,744.6








46,983.5



North America




2,711.4








2,823.7



Oceania




2,624.8








1,078.1



Headquarters/Global projects




78,363.4








88,541.3



TOTAL




882,938.1








1,093,058.7



Source: UN High Commissioner for Refugees, 1993.




UNHCR Commissioners, Executive Committee Members, and Signatories








Table 15 lists the past and present United Nations high commissioners for refugees. There have been eight high commissioners since UNHCR was established in 1950. The high commissioner for refugees is elected by the UN General Assembly on the nomination of the secretary-general. The current incumbant, Mrs. Sadako Ogata of Japan, took up office on 1 January 1991. The high commissioner acts under the authority of the UN General Assembly and reports to UNHCR's Executive Committee.








Table 16 lists the composition of the Executive Committee (governing body) of UNHCR. Following the election of Spain, at present there are forty-seven governments who are members of the Executive Committee. It is the governing body of UNHCR. It oversees UNHCR assistance budgets and advises on refugee protection. The Executive Committee has its principal meetings each year in early October in Geneva.








Table 17 lists governments according to whether they have signed the 1951 United Nations Convention and/or the 1967 Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees, as of 1 March 1994. Despite the fact that over 120 governments are signatories to the Convention, many major asylum countries have not yet signed the basic instruments. As of 1994, the only Asian signatories were Japan, the Republic of Korea, the People's Republic of China, Fiji,






 












Page 89




Papua New Guinea, and the Philippines; and the only Middle East signatories were Israel, Iran, and Yemen. Many of the world's largest and most urgent refugee situations have arisen in these regions. While many of these nonsignatories have offered asylumseekers at least temporary refuge, they have done so on the basis of their own policy decisions rather than from an incurred responsibility to international legal instruments.








TABLE 15 High Commissioners









Mr. Gerrit J. van Heuven Goedhart 
(Netherlands) 
December 1950-July 1956



Mr. Poul Hartling
(Denmark)
January 1978-December 1985Mr. Auguste R. Lindt
(Switzerland)
December 1956-December 1960Mr. Jean-Pierre Hocke
(Switzerland)
January 1986-November 1989Mr. Felix Schnyder
(Switzerland)
December 1960-December 1965Mr. Thorvald Stoltenberg
(Norway)
January 1990-November 1990Sadruddin Aga Khan
(Iran)
December 1965-December 1977Mrs. Sadako Ogata
(Japan)
January 1991-presentSource: UN High Commissioner for Refugees, 1993.




TABLE 16 Composition of UNHCR's Executive Committee 









The Executive Committee is composed of the following 46 member states:








Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Denmark, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Holy See, Hungary, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Israel, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Lesotho, Madagascar, Morocco, Namibia, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Somalia, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, and Zaire.



In 1993, Spain made a formal application to become the 47th member of the committee. Source: UN High Commissioner for Refugees, 1993.


 












Page 90




TABLE 17








United Nations Member States: Signatories and Nonsignatories to the United Nations Convention and Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees Signatories









Albania








China








Guinea-Bissau








Nicaragua








Suriname








Algeria








Colombia








Haiti








Niger








Swaziland (P)








Angola








Congo








Honduras








Nigeria








Sweden








Argentina








Costa Rica








Hungary








Norway








Tajikistan








Armenia








Cote d'lvoire








Iceland








Panama








Tanzania








Australia








Croatia








Iran








Papua New Guinea








Togo








Austria








Cyprus








Ireland








Paraguay








Tunisia








Azerbaijan








Czech Republic








Israel








Peru








Turkey








Bahamas








Denmark








Italy








Philippines








Uganda








Belgium








Djibouti








Jamaica








Poland








United Kingdom








Belize








Dominican Republic








Japan








Portugal








United States (P)








Benin








Ecuador








Kenya








Romania








Uruguay








Bolivia








Egypt








Korea (South)








Russian Federation








Venezuela (P)








Bosnia and Herzegovina








El Salvador








Lesotho








Rwanda








Yemen








Botswana








Equatorial Guinea








Liberia








Samoa (C)








Yugoslavia








Brazil








Ethiopia








Liechtenstein








Sao Tome and Principe








Zaire








Bulgaria








Fiji








Luxembourg








Senegal








Zambia








Burkina Faso








Finland








Madagascar (C)








Seychelles








Zimbabwe








Burundi








France








Malawi








Sierra Leone








Cambodia








Gabon








Mali








Slovak Republic








Cameroon








Gambia








Malta








Slovenia








Canada








Germany








Mauritania








Somalia








Cape Verde (P)








Ghana








Morocco








Spain








Central African Republic








Greece








Mozambique








St. Vincent and the








Chad








Guatemala








Netherlands








Grenadines








Chile








Guinea








New Zealand








Sudan








Table continued on next page






 












Page 91




continued from previous page








Nonsignatories









Afghanistan








Federated States of








Laos








Namibia








Syria








Antigua and Barbuda



Micronesia




Latvia








Nepal








Thailand








Bahrain








Georgia








Lebanon








Oman








Trinidad and Tobago








Bangladesh








Grenada








Libya








Pakistan








Turkmenistan








Barbados








Guyana








Lithuania








Qatar








Ukraine








Belarus








India








Macedonia








St. Kitts & Nevis








United Arab Emirates








Bhutan








Indonesia








Malaysia








St. Lucia








Uzbekistan








Bruni








Iraq








Maldives








San Marino








Vanuatu








Burma (Myammar)








Jordan








Marshall Islands








Saudi Arabia








Vietnam








Comoros








Kazakhstan








Mauritius








Singapore








Cuba








Korea (North)








Mexico








Solomon Islands








Dominica








Kuwait








Moldova








South Africa








Estonia








Kyrgyzstan








Mongolia








Sri Lanka








(C) Signatories to the convention only. 








(P) Signatories to the protocol only. 








Note: Non-UN members Switzerland, Tuvalu, and the Holy See have also signed the UN convention and protocol; Monaco has signed the convention only. 








Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1994.






 












Page 92




International Refugee Law








International refugee law mainly comprises international instruments that define basic standards for the treatment of refugees. The texts of the major international and regional refugee instruments are presented in this section.








The Statute of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) of 1950 sets out the functions of UNHCR, the principal international institution with the mandate to protect and assist refugees. Its functions include ''providing international protection" and "seeking permanent solutions" to the problems of refugees by way of voluntary repatriation or assimilation in new national communities. Of these, the provision of international protection is of primary importance, for without protection, lasting solutions cannot possibly be found. The UNHCR statute also prescribes the relationship of the high commissioner with the United Nations General Assembly and the United Nations Economic and Social Council, makes provision for organization and finance, and lists the ways in which the high commissioner is to provide for protection.








The Statute of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees 








GENERAL ASSEMBLY RESOLUTION 428 (V) of 14 December 1950








The General Assembly,
In view of its resolution 319 A (IV) of 3 December 1949,Y.








1. Adopts the annex to the present resolution, being the Statute of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees;








2. Calls upon Governments to co-operate with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in the performance of his functions concerning refugees falling under the competence of his Office, especially by:









(a)



Becoming parties to international conventions providing for the protection of refugees, and taking the necessary steps of implementation under such conventions;(b)Entering into special agreements with the High Commissioner for the execution of measures calculated to improve the situation of refugees and to reduce the number requiring protection;


 












Page 93





(c)








Admitting refugees to their territories, not excluding those in the most destitute categories;



(d)Assisting the High Commissioner in his efforts to promote the voluntary repatriation of refugees;(e)Promoting the assimilation of refugees, especially by facilitating their naturalization;(f)Providing refugees with travel and other documents such as would normally be provided to other aliens by their national authorities, especially documents which would facilitate their resettlement;(g)Permitting refugees to transfer their assets and especially those necessary for their resettlement;(h)Providing the High Commissioner with information concerning the number and condition of refugees, and laws and regulations concerning them. 




3. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the present resolution, together with the annex attached thereto, also to States nonmembers of the United Nations, with a view to obtaining their co-operation in its implementation. 








ANNEX
STATUTE OF THE OFFICE OF THE UNITED NATIONS
HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES








CHAPTER I
General Provisions








1. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, acting under the authority of the General Assembly, shall assume the function of providing international protection, under the auspices of the United Nations to refugees who fall within the scope of the present Statute and of seeking permanent solutions for the problem of refugees by assisting Governments and, subject to the approval of the Governments concerned, private organizations to facilitate the voluntary repatriation of such refugees, or their assimilation within new national communities. In the exercise of his functions, more particularly when difficulties arise, and for instance with regard to any controversy concerning the international status of these persons, the High Commissioner shall request the opinion of the advisory committee on refugees if it is created.








2. The work of the High Commissioner shall be of an entirely nonpolitical character; it shall be humanitarian and social and shall relate, as a rule, to groups and categories of refugees.








3. The High Commissioner shall follow policy directives given him by the General Assembly or the Economic and Social Council.






 












Page 94




4. The Economic and Social Council may decide, after hearing the views of the High Commissioner on the subject, to establish an advisory committee on refugees, which shall consist of representatives of States Members and States nonmembers of the United Nations, to be selected by the Council on the basis of their demonstrated interest in and devotion to the solution of the refugee problem.








5. The General Assembly shall review, not later than at its eighth regular session, the arrangements for the Office of the High Commissioner with a view to determining whether the Office should be continued beyond 31 December 1953.








CHAPTER II
Functions of the High Commissioner








6. The competence of the High Commissioner shall extend to:









A.



(i) Any person who has been considered a refugee under the Arrangements of 12 May 1926 and of 30 June 1928 or under the Conventions of 28 October 1933 and 10 February 1938, the Protocol of 14 September 1939 or the Constitution of the International Refugee Organization.(ii) Any person who, as a result of events occurring before 1 January 1951 and owing to well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable or, owing to such fear or for reasons other than personal convenience, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country; or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence, is unable or, owing to such fear or for reasons other than personal convenience, is unwilling to return to it.




Decisions as to eligibility taken by the International Refugee Organization during the period of its activities shall not prevent the status of refugee being accorded to persons who fulfill the conditions of the present paragraph;








The competence of the High Commissioner shall cease to apply to any person defined in section A above if: 









(a) 



He has voluntarily re-availed himself of the protection of the country of his nationality; or (b) Having lost his nationality, he has voluntarily re-acquired it; or


 












Page 95














(c)



He has acquired a new nationality, and enjoys the protection of the country of his new nationality; or (d)He has voluntarily re-established himself in the country which he left or outside which he remained owing to fear of persecution; or (e)He can no longer, because the circumstances in connexion with which he has been recognized as a refugee have ceased to exist claim grounds other than those of personal convenience for continuing to refuse to avail himself of the protection of the country of his nationality. Reasons of a purely economic character may not be invoked; or (f) Being a person who has no nationality, he can no longer, because the circumstances in connexion with which he has been recognized as a refugee have ceased to exist and he is able to return to the country of his former habitual residence, claim grounds other than those of personal convenience for continuing to refuse to return to that country;B.Any other person who is outside the country of his nationality, or if he has no nationality, the country of his former habitual residence, because he has or had well-founded fear of persecution by reason of his race, religion, nationality or political opinion and is unable or, because of such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of the government of the country of his nationality, or, if he has no nationality, to return to the country of his former habitual residence.




7. Provided that the competence of the High Commissioner as defined in paragraph 6 above shall not extend to a person:









(a)



Who is a national of more than one country unless he satisfies the provisions of the preceding paragraph in relation to each of the countries of which he is a national; or(b)Who is recognized by the competent authorities of the country in which he has taken residence as having the rights and obligations which are attached to the possession of the nationality of that country; or(c)Who continues to receive from other organs or agencies of the United Nations protection or assistance; or(d)In respect of whom there are serious reasons for considering that he has committed a crime covered by the provisions of treaties of extradition or a crime mentioned in article V1 of the London Charter of the International Military Tribunal or by the provisions of article 14, paragraph 2, of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.


 












Page 96




8. The High Commissioner shall provide for the protection of refugees falling under the competence of his Office by: 









(a)



Promoting the conclusion and ratification of international conventions for the protection of refugees, supervising their application and proposing amendments thereto;(b)Promoting through special agreements with Governments the execution of any measures calculated to improve the situation of refugees and to reduce the number requiring protection;(c)Assisting governmental and private efforts to promote voluntary repatriation or assimilation within new national communities;(d)Promoting the admission of refugees, not excluding those in the most destitute categories, to the territories of States;(e)Endeavouring to obtain permission for refugees to transfer their assets and especially those necessary for their resettlement;(f)Obtaining from Governments information concerning the number and conditions of refugees in their territories and the laws and regulations concerning them;(g)Keeping in close touch with the Governments and inter-governmental organizations concerned;(h)Establishing contact in such manner as he may think best with private organizations dealing with refugee questions;(i)Facilitating the co-ordination of the efforts of private organizations concerned with the welfare of refugees. 




9. The High Commissioner shall engage in such additional activities, including repatriation and resettlement, as the General Assembly may determine, within the limits of the resources placed at his disposal.








10. The High Commissioner shall administer any funds, public or private, which he receives for assistance to refugees, and shall distribute them among the private and, as appropriate, public agencies which he deems best qualified to administer such assistance. The High Commissioner may reject any offers which he does not consider appropriate or which cannot be utilized. The High Commissioner shall not appeal to Governments for funds or make a general appeal, without the prior approval of the General Assembly. The High Commissioner shall include in his annual report a statement of his activities in this field.








11. The High Commissioner shall be entitled to present his views before the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and their subsidiary bodies. The High Commissioner shall report annually to the General Assembly through the Economic and Social Council;






 












Page 97




his report shall be considered as a separate item on the agenda of the General Assembly.








12. The High Commissioner may invite the co-operation of the various specialized agencies. 








CHAPTER III
Organization and Finances








13. The High Commissioner shall be elected by the General Assembly on the nomination of the Secretary-General. The terms of appointment of the High Commissioner shall be proposed by the SecretaryGeneral and approved by the General Assembly. The High Commissioner shall be elected for a term of three years, from 1 January 1951.








14. The High Commissioner shall appoint, for the same term, a Deputy High Commissioner of a nationality other than his own.








15.









(a)



Within the limits of the budgetary appropriations provided, the staff of the Office of the High Commissioner shall be appointed by the High Commissioner and shall be responsible to him in the exercise of their functions.




(b)



Such staff shall be chosen from persons devoted to the purposes of the Office of the High Commissioner.




(c)



Their conditions of employment shall be those provided under the staff regulations adopted by the General Assembly and the rules promulgated thereunder by the Secretary-General.




(d)



Provision may also be made to permit the employment of personnel without compensation.




16. The High Commissioner shall consult the Government of the countries of residence of refugees as to the need for appointing representatives therein. In any country recognizing such need, there may be appointed a representative approved by the Government of that country. Subject to the foregoing, the same representative may serve in more than one country.








17. The High Commissioner and the Secretary-General shall make appropriate arrangements for liaison and consultation on matters of mutual interest.








18. The Secretary-General shall provide the High Commissioner with all necessary facilities within budgetary limitations.








19. The Office of the High Commissioner shall be located in Geneva, Switzerland.








20. The Office of the High Commissioner shall be financed under the budget of the United Nations. Unless the General Assembly subsequently decides otherwise, no expenditure other than






 












Page 98




administrative expenditures relating to the functioning of the Office of the High Commissioner shall be borne on the budget of the United Nations and all other expenditures relating to the activities of the High Commissioner shall be financed by voluntary contributions.








21. The administration of the Office of the High Commissioner shall be subject to the Financial Regulations of the United Nations and to the financial rules promulgated thereunder by the Secretary-General.








22. Transactions relating to the High Commissioner's funds shall be subject to audit by the United Nations Board of Auditors, provided that the Board may accept audited accounts from the agencies to which funds have been allocated. Administrative arrangements for the custody of such funds and their allocation shall be agreed between the High Commissioner and the Secretary-General in accordance with the Financial Regulations of the United Nations and rules promulgated thereunder by the Secretary-General.








1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees Done at Geneva on 28 July 1951








The 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees is the major document in international refugee law since it:








contains a general definition of the term refugee (Article 1);








embodies the principle of nonrefoulement (Article 33) according to which no person may be returned to a territory where he or she may be exposed to persecution;








sets the minimum standard of treatment of refugees, including the basic rights to be granted, and the duties of refugees vis-a-vis their country of refuge;








contains provisions that concern refugees' judicial status, gainful employment, and welfare;








contains provisions regarding the issue of identity and travel documents, naturalization, and other administrative matters;








requires states to cooperate with UNHCR in the exercise of








its functions and to facilitate the task of supervising the application of the convention. 








At the time the convention was adopted, governments were anxious to focus on the existing refugee problems, and not to






 












Page 99




assume obligations for the future, the extent of which could not be foreseen. This resulted in two major limitations:








1. The benefits of the convention were not to apply to persons who corresponded to the definition, but who became refugees as a result of events occurring after 1 January 1951 (Article 1);








2. When becoming a party to the convention, states had the possibility of making a declaration, limiting their obligations under the convention to European refugees.








Entry into force: 22 April 1954, in accordance with Article 43








Text: United Nations Treaty Series No. 2545, Vol. 189, p. 137








PREAMBLE
The High Contracting Parties








Considering that the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights approved on 10 December 1948 by the General Assembly have affirmed the principle that human beings shall enjoy fundamental rights and freedoms without discrimination,








Considering that the United Nations has, on various occasions, manifested its profound concern for refugees and endeavoured to assure refugees the widest possible exercise of these fundamental rights and freedoms,








Considering that it is desirable to revise and consolidate previous international agreements relating to the status of refugees and to extend the scope of and the protection accorded by such instruments by means of a new agreement,








Considering that the grant of asylum may place unduly heavy burdens on certain countries, and that a satisfactory solution of a problem of which the United Nations has recognized the international scope and nature cannot therefore be achieved without international co-operation,








Expressing the wish that all States, recognizing the social and humanitarian nature of the problem of refugees, will do everything within their power to prevent this problem from becoming a cause of tension between States,








Noting that the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is charged with the task of supervising international conventions providing for the protection of refugees, and recognizing that the effective co-ordination of measures taken to deal with this problem






 












Page 100




will depend upon the cooperation of States with the High Commissioner,








Have agreed as follows:








CHAPTER I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS








ARTICLE 1
Definition of the term "REFUGEE"









A.



For the purposes of the present Convention, the term "refugee" shall apply to any person who:





(1)



Has been considered a refugee under the Arrangements of 12 May 1926 and 30 June 1928 or under the Conventions of 28 October 1933 and 10 February 1938, the Protocol of 14 September 1939 or the Constitution of the International Refugee Organization;




Decisions of non-eligibility taken by the International Refugee Organization during the period of its activities shall not prevent the status of refugee being accorded to persons who fulfil the conditions of paragraph 2 of this section;



(2)As a result of events occuring before 1 January 1951 and owing to well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country; or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence as a result of such events, is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to it.




In the case of a person who has more than one nationality, the term "the country of his nationality" shall mean each of the countries of which he is a national, and a person shall not be deemed to be lacking the protection of the country of his nationality if, without any valid reason based on well-founded fear, he has not availed himself of the protection of one of the countries of which he is a national.









B.








(1)








For the purposes of this Convention, the words "events occurring before 1 January 1951" in Article 1, Section A, shall be understood to mean either








(a)








"events occurring in Europe before 1 January 1951"; 








or








(b) 








"events occurring in Europe or elsewhere before 1 January 1951" and each Contracting State shall make






 












Page 101




a declaration at the time of signature, ratification or accession, specifying which of these meanings it applies for the purpose of its obligations under this Convention.








(2) Any Contracting State which has adopted alternative (a) may at any time extend its obligations by adopting alternative (b) by means of a notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.








C. This Convention shall cease to apply to any person falling under the terms of section A if:








(1) He has voluntarily re-availed himself of the protection of the country of his nationality; or








(2) Having lost his nationality, he has voluntarily re-acquired it, or








(3) He has acquired a new nationality, and enjoys the protection of the country of his new nationality; or








(4) He has voluntarily re-established himself in the country which he left or outside which he remained owing to fear of persecution; or








(5) He can no longer, because the circumstances in connexion with which he has been recognized as a refugee have ceased to exist, continue to refuse to avail himself of the protection of the country of his nationality;








Provided that this paragraph shall not apply to a refugee falling under section A(1) of this Article who is able to invoke compelling reasons arising out of previous persecution for refusing to avail himself of the protection of the country of nationality;








(6) Being a person who has no nationality he is, because the circumstances in connexion with which he has been recognized as a refugee have ceased to exist, able to return to the country of his former habitual residence;








Provided that this paragraph shall not apply to a refugee falling under section A(l) of this Article who is able to invoke compelling reasons arising out of previous persecution for refusing to return to the country of his former habitual residence.








D. This Convention shall not apply to persons who are at present receiving from organs or agencies of the United Nations other than the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees protection or assistance.








When such protection or assistance has ceased for any reason, without the position of such persons being definitively settled in






 












Page 102




accordance with the relevant resolutions adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations, these persons shall ipso facto be entitled to the benefits of this Convention.








E. This Convention shall not apply to a person who is recognized by the competent authorities of the country in which he has taken residence as having the rights and obligations which are attached to the possession of the nationality of that country.








E The provisions of this Convention shall not apply to any person with respect to whom there are serious reasons for considering that:








(a) he has committed a crime against peace, a war crime, or a crime against humanity, as defined in the international instruments drawn up to make provision in respect of such crimes;








(b) he has committed a serious non-political crime outside the country of refuge prior to his admission to that country as a refugee;








(c) he has been guilty of acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. 








ARTICLE 2
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS








Every refugee has duties to the country in which he finds himself, which require in particular that he conform to its laws and regulations as well as to measures taken for the maintenance of public order.








ARTICLE 3
NON-DISCRIMINATION








The Contracting States shall apply the provisions of this Convention to refugees without discrimination as to race, religion or country of origin.








ARTICLE 4
RELIGION








The Contracting States shall accord to refugees within their territories treatment at least as favourable as that accorded to their nationals with respect to freedom to practise their religion and freedom as regards the religious education of their children.








ARTICLE 5
RIGHTS GRANTED APART FROM THIS CONVENTION








Nothing in this Convention shall be deemed to impair any rights and benefits granted by a Contracting State to refugees apart from this Convention.






 












Page 103




ARTICLE 6
THE TERM ''IN THE SAME CIRCUMSTANCES"








For the purpose of this Convention, the term "in the same circumstances" implies that any requirements (including requirements as to length and conditions of sojourn or residence) which the particular individual would have to fulfil for the enjoyment of the right in question, if he were not a refugee, must be fulfilled by him, with the exception of requirements which by their nature a refugee is incapable of fulfilling.








ARTICLE 7
EXEMPTION FROM RECIPROCITY








1. Except where this Convention contains more favourable provisions, a Contracting State shall accord to refugees the same treatment as is accorded to aliens generally.








2. After a period of three years' residence, all refugees shall enjoy exemption from legislative reciprocity in the territory of the Contracting States. 








3. Each Contracting State shall continue to accord to refugees the rights and benefits to which they were already entitled, in the absence of reciprocity, at the date of entry into force of this Convention for that State. 








4. The Contracting States shall consider favourably the possibility of according to refugees, in the absence of reciprocity, rights and benefits beyond those to which they are entitled according to paragraphs 2 and 3, and to extending exemption from reciprocity to refugees who do not fulfil the conditions provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3. 








5. The provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 apply both to the rights and benefits referred to in Articles 13, 18, 19, 21 and 22 of this Convention and to rights and benefits for which this Convention does not provide.








ARTICLE 8
EXEMPTION FROM EXCEPTIONAL MEASURES








With regard to exceptional measures which may be taken against the person, property or interests of nationals of a foreign State, the Contracting States shall not apply such measures to a refugee who is formally a national of the said State solely on account of such nationality. Contracting States which, under their legislation, are prevented from applying the general principle expressed in this Article, shall, in appropriate cases, grant exemptions in favour of such refugees.






 












Page 104




ARTICLE 9
PROVISIONAL MEASURES








Nothing in this Convention shall prevent a Contracting State, in time of war or other grave and exceptional circumstances, from taking provisionally measures which it considers to be essential to the national security in the case of a particular person, pending a determination by the Contracting State that that person is in fact a refugee and that the continuance of such measures is necessary in his case in the interests of national security.








ARTICLE 10
CONTINUITY OF RESIDENCE








1. Where a refugee has been forcibly displaced during the Second World War and removed to the territory of a Contracting State, and is resident there, the period of such enforced sojourn shall be considered to have been lawful residence within that territory.








2. Where a refugee has been forcibly displaced during the Second World War from the territory of a Contracting State and has, prior to the date of entry into force of this Convention, returned there for the purpose of taking up residence, the period of residence before and after such enforced displacement shall be regarded as one uninterrupted period for any purposes for which uninterrupted residence is required.








ARTICLE 11
REFUGEE SEAMEN








In the case of refugees regularly serving as crew members on board a ship flying the flag of a Contracting State, that State shall give sympathetic consideration to their establishment on its territory and the issue of travel documents to them or their temporary admission to its territory particularly with a view to facilitating their establishment in another country.








CHAPTER II 
JURIDICAL STATUS








ARTICLE 12
PERSONAL STATUS








1. The personal status of a refugee shall be governed by the law of the country of his domicile or, if he has no domicile, by the law of the country of his residence.








2. Rights previously acquired by a refugee and dependent on personal status, more particularly rights attaching to marriage, shall be






 












Page 105




respected by a Contracting State, subject to compliance, if this be necessary, with the formalities required by the law of that State, provided that the right in question is one which would have been recognized by the law of that State had he not become a refugee.








ARTICLE 13
MOVABLE AND IMMOVABLE PROPERTY








The Contracting States shall accord to a refugee treatment as favourable as possible and, in any event, not less favourable than that accorded to aliens generally in the same circumstances, as regards the acquisition of movable and immovable property and other rights pertaining thereto, and to leases and other contracts relating to movable and immovable property. 








ARTICLE 14
ARTISTIC RIGHTS AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY








In respect of the protection of industrial property, such as inventions, designs or models, trade marks, trade names, and of rights in literary, artistic and scientific works, a refugee shall be accorded in the country in which he has his habitual residence the same protection as is accorded to nationals of that country. In the territory of any other Contracting State, he shall be accorded the same protection as is accorded in that territory to nationals of the country in which he has his habitual residence.








ARTICLE 15
RIGHT OF ASSOCIATION








As regards non-political and non-profit-making associations and trade unions the Contracting States shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory the most favourable treatment accorded to nationals of a foreign country, in the same circumstances.








ARTICLE 16
ACCESS TO COURTS








1. A refugee shall have free access to the courts of law on the territory of all Contracting States. 








2. A refugee shall enjoy in the Contracting State in which he has his habitual residence the same treatment as a national in matters pertaining to access to the Courts, including legal assistance and exemption from cautio judicatum solvi. 








3. A refugee shall be accorded in the matters referred to in paragraph 2 in countries other than that in which he has his habitual residence the treatment granted to a national of the country of his habitual residence.






 












Page 106




CHAPTER III
GAINFUL EMPLOYMENT








ARTICLE 17
WAGE-EARNING EMPLOYMENT








1. The Contracting State shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory the most favourable treatment accorded to nationals of a foreign country in the same circumstances, as regards the right to engage in wage-earning employment.








2. In any case, restrictive measures imposed on aliens or the employment of aliens for the protection of the national labour market shall not be applied to a refugee who was already exempt from them at the date of entry into force of this Convention for the Contracting State concerned, or who fulfils one of the following conditions:








(a) He has completed three years' residence in the country,








(b) He has a spouse possessing the nationality of the country of residence. A refugee may not invoke the benefits of this provision if he has abandoned his spouse,








(c) He has one or more children possessing the nationality of the country of residence.








3. The Contracting States shall give sympathetic consideration to assimilating the rights of all refugees with regard to wage-earning employment to those of nationals, and in particular of those refugees who have entered their territory pursuant to programmes of labour recruitment or under immigration schemes.








ARTICLE 18
SELF-EMPLOYMENT








The Contracting States shall accord to a refugee lawfully in their territory treatment as favourable as possible and, in any event, not less favourable than that accorded to aliens generally in the same circumstances, as regards the right to engage on his own account in agriculture, industry, handicrafts and commerce and to establish commercial and industrial companies.








ARTICLE 19
LIBERAL PROFESSIONS








1. Each Contracting State shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory who hold diplomas recognized by the competent authorities of that State, and who are desirous of practising a liberal profession, treatment as favourable as possible and, in any event, not less favourable than that accorded to aliens generally in the same circumstances.






 












Page 107




2. The Contracting States shall use their best endeavours consistently with their laws and constitutions to secure the settlement of such refugees in the territories, other than the metropolitan territory, for whose international relations they are responsible.








CHAPTER IV
WELFARE








ARTICLE 20
RATIONING








Where a rationing system exists, which applies to the population at large and regulates the general distribution of products in short supply, refugees shall be accorded the same treatment as nationals.








ARTICLE 21
HOUSING








As regards housing, the Contracting States, in so far as the matter is regulated by laws or regulations or is subject to the control of public authorities, shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory treatment as favourable as possible and, in any event, not less favourable than that accorded to aliens generally in the same circumstances.








ARTICLE 22
PUBLIC EDUCATION








1. The Contracting States shall accord to refugees the same treatment as is accorded to nationals with respect to elementary education.








2. The Contracting States shall accord to refugees treatment as favourable as possible, and, in any event, not less favourable than that accorded to aliens generally in the same circumstances, with respect to education other than elementary education and, in particular, as regards access to studies, the recognition of foreign school certificates, diplomas and degrees, the remission of fees and charges and the award of scholarships.








ARTICLE 23
PUBLIC RELIEF








The Contracting States shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory the same treatment with respect to public relief and assistance as is accorded to their nationals.








ARTICLE 24
LABOUR LEGISLATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY








1. The Contracting States shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory the same treatment as is accorded to nationals in respect of the following matters:






 












Page 108





(a)








In so far as such matters are governed by laws or regulations or are subject to the control of administrative authorities: remuneration, including family allowances where these form part of remuneration, hours of work, overtime arrangements, holidays with pay, restrictions on home work, minimum age of employment, apprenticeship and training, women's work and the work of young persons, and the enjoyment of the benefits of collective bargaining;








(b)








Social security (legal provisions in respect of employment injury, occupational diseases, maternity, sickness, disability, old age, death, unemployment, family responsibilities and any other contingency which, according to national laws or regulations, is covered by a social security scheme), subject to the following limitations:








(i)








There may be appropriate arrangements for the maintenance of acquired rights and rights in course of acquisition;








(ii)








National laws or regulations of the country of residence may prescribe special arrangements concerning benefits or portions of benefits which are payable wholly out of public funds, and concerning allowances paid to persons who do not fulfil the contribution conditions prescribed for the award of a normal pension.








2. The right to compensation for the death of a refugee resulting from employment injury or from occupational disease shall not be affected by the fact that the residence of the beneficiary is outside the territory of the Contracting State.








3. The Contracting States shall extend to refugees the benefits of agreements concluded between them, or which may be concluded between them in the future, concerning the maintenance of acquired rights and rights in the process of acquisition in regard to social security, subject only to the Conditions which apply to nationals of the States signatory to the agreements in question.








4. The Contracting States will give sympathetic consideration to extending to refugees so far as possible the benefits of similar agreements which may at any time be in force between such Contracting States and non-contracting States.








CHAPTER V
ADMINISTRATIVE MEASURES








ARTICLE 25
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANCE








1. When the exercise of a right by a refugee would normally require the assistance of authorities of a foreign country to whom he cannot






 












Page 109




have recourse, the Contracting States in whose territory he is residing shall arrange that such assistance be afforded to him by their own authorities or by an international authority.








2. The authority or authorities mentioned in paragraph 1 shall deliver or cause to be delivered under their supervision to refugees such documents or certifications as would normally be delivered to aliens by or through their national authorities.








3. Documents or certifications so delivered shall stand in the stead of the official instruments delivered to aliens by or through their national authorities, and shall be given credence in the absence of proof to the contrary.








4. Subject to such exceptional treatment as may be granted to indigent persons, fees may be charged for the services mentioned herein, but such fees shall be moderate and commensurate with those charged to nationals for similar services.








5. The provisions of this Article shall be without prejudice to Articles 27 and 28.








ARTICLE 26
FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT








Each Contracting State shall accord to refugees lawfully in its territory the right to choose their place of residence and to move freely within its territory, subject to any regulations applicable to aliens generally in the same circumstances.








ARTICLE 27
IDENTITY PAPERS








The Contracting States shall issue identity papers to any refugee in the territory who does not possess a valid travel document.








ARTICLE 28
TRAVEL DOCUMENTS








1. The Contracting States shall issue to refugees lawfully staying in the territory travel documents for the purpose of travel outside their territory unless compelling reasons of national security or public order otherwise require, and the provisions of the Schedule to this Convention shall apply with respect to such documents. The Contracting States may issue such travel document to any other refugee in their territory, they shall in particular give sympathetic consideration to the issue of such a travel document to refugees in their territory who are unable to obtain a travel document from the country of their lawful residence.








2. Travel documents issued to refugees under previous international agreements by parties thereto shall be recognized and






 












Page 110




treated by the Contracting States in the same way as if they had been issued pursuant to this article.








ARTICLE 29
FISCAL CHARGES








1. The Contracting States shall not impose upon refugees duties charges or taxes, of any description whatsoever, other or higher than those which are or may be levied on their nationals in similar situations.








2. Nothing in the above paragraph shall prevent the application to refugees of the laws and regulations concerning charges in respect of the issue to aliens of administrative documents including identity papers.








ARTICLE 30
TRANSFER OF ASSETS








1. A Contracting State shall, in conformity with its laws and regulation permit refugees to transfer assets which they have brought into its territory to another country where they have been admitted for the purposes of resettlement.








2. A Contracting State shall give sympathetic consideration to the application of refugees for permission to transfer assets wherever they may be and which are necessary for their resettlement in another country to which they have been admitted.








ARTICLE 31
REFUGEES UNLAWFULLY IN THE COUNTRY OF REFUGE








1. The Contracting States shall not impose penalties, on account of their illegal entry or presence, on refugees who, coming directly from a territory where their life or freedom was threatened in the sense of Article I, enter or are present in their territory without authorization, provided they present themselves without delay to the authorities and show good cause for their illegal entry or presence.








2. The Contracting States shall not apply to the movements of such refugees restrictions other than those which are necessary and such restrictions shall only be applied until their status in the country is regularized or they obtain admission into another country. The Contracting States shall allow such refugees a reasonable period and all the necessary facilities to obtain admission into another country.








ARTICLE 32
EXPULSION








1. The Contracting States shall not expel a refugee lawfully in their territory save on grounds of national security or public order.






 












Page 111




2. The expulsion of such a refugee shall be only in pursuance of a decision reached in accordance with due process of law. Except where compelling reasons of national security otherwise require, the refugee shall be allowed to submit evidence to clear himself, and to appeal to and be represented for the purpose before competent authority or a person or persons specially designated by the competent authority.








3. The Contracting States shall allow such a refugee a reasonable period within which to seek legal admission into another country. The Contracting States reserve the right to apply during that period such internal measures as they may deem necessary.








ARTICLE 33
PROHIBITION OF EXPULSION OR RETURN ("REFOULEMENT")








1. No Contracting State shall expel or return ("refouler") a refugee in any manner whatsoever to the frontiers of territories where his life or freedom would be threatened on account of his race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion.








2. The benefit of the present provision may not, however, be claimed by a refugee whom there are reasonable grounds for regarding as a danger to the security of the country in which he is, or who, having been convicted by a final judgment of a particularly serious crime, constitutes a danger to the community of that country.








ARTICLE 34
NATURALIZATION








The Contracting States shall as far as possible facilitate the assimilation and naturalization of refugees. They shall in particular make every effort to expedite naturalization proceedings and to reduce as far as possible the charges and costs of such proceedings.








CHAPTER VI
EXECUTORY AND TRANSITORY PROVISIONS








ARTICLE 35
CO-OPERATION OF THE NATIONAL AUTHORITIES WITH THE UNITED NATIONS








1. The Contracting States undertake to co-operate with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, or any other agency of the United Nations which may succeed it, in the exercise of its functions, and shall in particular facilitate its duty of supervising the application of the provisions of this Convention.








2. In order to enable the Office of the High Commissioner or any other agency of the United Nations which may succeed it, to make reports to the Competent organs of the United Nations, the






 












Page 112




Contracting States undertake to provide them in the appropriate form with information and statistical data requested concerning:




(a)the condition of refugees,(b)the implementation of this Convention, and(c)laws, regulations and decrees which are, or may hereafter be, in force relating to refugees.




ARTICLE 36 
INFORMATION ON NATIONAL LEGISLATION 








The Contracting States shall communicate to the Secretary-General of the United Nations the laws and regulations which they may adopt to ensure the application of this Convention.








ARTICLE 37 
RELATION TO PREVIOUS CONVENTIONS 








Without prejudice to Article 28, paragraph 2, of this Convention, this Convention replaces, as between parties to it, the Arrangements of 5 July 1922, 31 May 1924, 12 May 1926, 30 June 1928 and 30 July 1935, the Conventions of 28 October 1933 and 10 February 1938, the Protocol of 14 September 1939 and the Agreement of 15 October 1946. 








CHAPTER VII
FINAL CLAUSES 








ARTICLE 38
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES








Any dispute between parties to this Convention relating to its interpretation or application, which cannot be settled by other means, shall be referred to the International Court of Justice at the request of any one of the parties to the dispute. 








ARTICLE 39 
SIGNATURE, RATIFICATION AND ACCESSION 




1.This Convention shall be opened for signature at Geneva on 28 July 1951 and shall thereafter be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. It shall be open for signature at the European Office of the United Nations from 28 July to 31 August 1951 and shall be re-opened for signature at the Headquarters of the United Nations from 17 September 1951 to 31 December 1952.2.This Convention shall be open for signature on behalf of all States Members of the United Nations, and also on behalf of any other


 












Page 113
State invited to attend the Conference of Plenipotentiaries on the Status of Refugees and Stateless Persons or to which an invitation to sign will have been addressed by the General Assembly. It shall be ratified and the instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.3.This Convention shall be open from 28 July 1951 for accession by the States referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. Accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of accession with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. 




ARTICLE 40 
TERRITORIAL APPLICATION CLAUSE




1.Any State may, at the time of signature, ratification or accession, declare that this Convention shall extend to all or any of the territories for the international relations of which it is responsible. Such a declaration shall take effect when the Convention enters into force for the State concerned.2.At any time thereafter any such extension shall be made by notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and shall take effect as from the ninetieth day after the day of receipt by the Secretary-General of the United Nations of this notification, or as from the date of entry into force of the Convention for the State concerned, whichever is the later.3.With respect to those territories to which this Convention is not extended at the time of signature, ratification or accession, each State concerned shall consider the possibility of taking the necessary steps in order to extend the application of this Convention to such territories, subject, where necessary for constitutional reasons, to the consent of the governments of such territories. 




ARTICLE 41 
FEDERAL CLAUSE








In the case of a Federal or non-unitary State, the following provisions shall apply: 




(a)With respect to those Articles of this Convention that come within the legislative jurisdiction of the federal legislative authority, the obligations of the Federal Government shall to this extent be the same as those of Parties which are not Federal States,(b)With respect to those Articles of this Convention that come within the legislative jurisdiction of constituent States, provinces or cantons which are not, under the constitutional system of the federation, bound to take legislative action, the


 












Page 114
Federal Government shall bring such Articles with a favourable recommendation to the notice of the appropriate authorities of States, provinces or cantons at the earliest possible moment.(c)A Federal State Party to this Convention shall, at the request of any other Contracting State transmitted through the Secretary-General of the United Nations, supply a statement of the law and practice of the Federation and its constituent units in regard to any particular provision of the Convention showing the extent to which effect has been given to that provision by legislative or other action. 




ARTICLE 42 
RESERVATIONS




1.At the time of signature, ratification or accession, any State may make reservations to articles of the Convention other than to Articles 1, 3, 4, 16 (1), 33, 36-46 inclusive.2.Any State making a reservation in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article may at any time withdraw the reservation by a communication to that effect addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. 




ARTICLE 43 
ENTRY INTO FORCE




1.This Convention shall come into force on the ninetieth day following the day of deposit of the sixth instrument of ratification or accession.2.For each State ratifying or acceding to the Convention after the deposit of the sixth instrument of ratification or accession, the Convention shall enter into force on the ninetieth day following the date of deposit by such State of its instrument of ratification or accession. 




ARTICLE 44 
DENUNCIATION




1.Any Contracting State may denounce this Convention at any time by a notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.2.Such denunciation shall take effect for the Contracting State concerned one year from the date upon which it is received by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.3.Any State which has made a declaration or notification under Article 40 may, at any time thereafter, by a notification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, declare that the Convention


 












Page 115
shall cease to extend to such territory one year after the date of receipt of the notification by the Secretary-General. 




ARTICLE 45 
REVISION




1.Any Contracting State may request revision of this Convention at any time by a notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.2.The General Assembly of the United Nations shall recommend the steps, if any, to be taken in respect of such request. 




ARTICLE 46 
NOTIFICATIONS BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE UNITED NATIONS








The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall inform all Members of the United Nations and non-member States referred to in Article 39: 




(a)of declarations and notifications in accordance with Section B of Article 1;(b)of signatures, ratifications and accessions in accordance with Article 39;(c)of declarations and notifications in accordance with Article 40;(d)of reservations and withdrawals in accordance with Article 42;(e)of the date on which this Convention will come into force in accordance with Article 43;(f)of denunciations and notifications in accordance with Article 44;(g)of requests for revision in accordance with Article 45. 




IN FAITH WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorized, have signed this Convention on behalf of their respective Governments,








DONE at Geneva, this twenty-eighth day of July, one thousand nine hundred and fifty-one, in a single copy, of which the English and French texts are equally authentic and which shall remain deposited in the archives of the United Nations, and certified true copies of which shall be delivered to all Members of the United Nations and to the non-member States referred to in Article 39. 








SCHEDULE 








PARAGRAPH 1








1. The travel document referred to in Article 28 of this Convention shall be similar to the specimen annexed hereto.






 












Page 116




2. The document shall be made out in at least two languages, one of which shall be English or French. 








PARAGRAPH 2








Subject to the regulations obtaining in the country of issue, children may be included in the travel document of a parent or, in exceptional circumstances, of another adult refugee. 








PARAGRAPH 3








The fees charged for issue of the document shall not exceed the lowest scale of charges for national passports. 








PARAGRAPH 4








Save in special or exceptional cases, the document shall be made valid for the largest possible number of countries. 








PARAGRAPH 5








The document shall have a validity of either one or two years, at the discretion of the issuing authority. 








PARAGRAPH 6








1. The renewal or extension of the validity of the document is a matter for the authority which issued it, so long as the holder has not established lawful residence in another territory and resides lawfully in the territory of the said authority. The issue of a new document is, under the same conditions, a matter for the authority which issued the former document.








2. Diplomatic or consular authorities, specially authorized for the purpose, shall be empowered to extend, for a period not exceeding six months, the validity of travel documents issued by their Governments.








3. The Contracting States shall give sympathetic consideration to renewing or extending the validity of travel documents or issuing new documents to refugees no longer lawfully resident in their territory who are unable to obtain a travel document from the country of their lawful residence. 








PARAGRAPH 7








The Contracting States shall recognize the validity of the documents issued in accordance with the provisions of Article 28 of this Convention.






 












Page 117




PARAGRAPH 8








The competent authorities of the country to which the refugee desires to proceed shall, if they are prepared to admit him and if a visa is required, affix a visa on the document of which he is the holder.








PARAGRAPH 9








1. The Contracting States undertake to issue transit visas to refugees who have obtained visas for a territory of final destination.








2. The issue of such visas may be refused on grounds which would justify refusal of a visa to any alien. 








PARAGRAPH 10








The fees for the issue of exit, entry or transit visas shall not exceed the lowest scale of charges for visas on foreign passports. 








PARAGRAPH 11








When a refugee has lawfully taken up residence in the territory of another Contracting State, the responsibility for the issue of a new document, under the terms and conditions of Article 28, shall be that of the competent authority of that territory, to which the refugee shall be entitled to apply. 








PARAGRAPH 12








The authority issuing a new document shall withdraw the old document and shall return it to the country of issue, if it is stated in the document that it should be so returned; otherwise it shall withdraw and cancel the document. 








PARAGRAPH 13








1. Each Contracting State undertakes that the holder of a travel document issued by it in accordance with Article 28 of this Convention shall be re-admitted to its territory at any time during the period of its validity.








2. Subject to the provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph, a Contracting State may require the holder of the document to comply with such formalities as may be prescribed in regard to exit from or return to its territory.








3. The Contracting States reserve the right, in exceptional cases, or in cases where the refugee's stay is authorized for a specific period, when issuing the document, to limit the period during which the refugee may return to a period of not less than three months.






 












Page 118




PARAGRAPH 14








Subject only to the terms of paragraph 13, the provisions of this Schedule in no way affect the laws and regulations governing the conditions of admission to, transit through, residence and establishment in, and departure from, the territories of the Contracting States. 








PARAGRAPH 15








Neither the issue of the document nor the entries made thereon determine or affect the status of the holder, particularly as regards nationality. 








PARAGRAPH 16








The issue of the document does not in any way entitle the holder to the protection of the diplomatic or consular authorities of the country of issue, and does not confer on these authorities a right of protection. 








ANNEX
SPECIMEN TRAVEL DOCUMENT








The document will be in booklet form (approximately 15 x 10 centimetres).








It is recommended that it be so printed that any erasure or alteration by chemical or other means can be readily detected, and that the words ''Convention of 28 July 1951" be printed in continuous repetition on each page, in the language of the issuing country.








APPENDIX








FINAL ACT OF THE 1951 UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE OF PLENIPOTENTIARIES ON THE STATUS OF REFUGEES AND STATELESS PERSONS








I








The General Assembly of the United Nations, by Resolution 429 (V) of 14 December 1950, decided to convene in Geneva a Conference of Plenipotentiaries to complete the drafting of, and to sign, a Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and a Protocol relating to the Status of Stateless Persons.








The Conference met at the European Office of the United Nations in Geneva from 2 to 25 July 1951.








The Governments of the following twenty-six States were represented by delegates who all submitted satisfactory credentials or other communications of appointment authorizing them to participate in the Conference:






 












Page 119





Australia



ItalyAustriaLuxembourgBelgiumMonacoBrazilNetherlandsCanadaNorwayColombiaSwedenDenmarkSwitzerland (the Swiss delegationEgypt




also represented Liechtenstein)



FranceTurkeyGermany, Federal Republic ofUnited Kingdom of Great BritainGreece




and Northern Ireland



Holy SeeUnited States of AmericaIraqVenezuelaIsraelYugoslavia




The Governments of the following two States were represented by observers 








Cuba








Iran








Pursuant to the request of the General Assembly, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees participated, without the right to vote, in the deliberations of the Conference. 








The International Labour Organisation and the International Refugee Organization were represented at the Conference without the right to vote. 








The Conference invited a representative of the Council of Europe to be represented at the Conference without the right to vote. 








Representatives of the following Non-Governmental Organizations in consultative relationship with the Economic and Social Council were also present as observers:








CATEGORY A 








International Federation of Christian Trade Unions 
Inter-Parliamentary Union 








CATEGORY B 








Agudas Israel World Organization 
Caritas Internationalis 
Catholic International Union for Social Service 
Commission of the Churches on International Affairs 
Consultative Council of Jewish Organizations






 












Page 120




Co-ordinating Board of Jewish Organizations 
Friends' World Committee for Consultation 
International Association of Penal Law 
International Bureau for the Unification of Penal Law 
International Committee of the Red Cross 
International Council of Women 
International Federation of Friends of Young Women 
International League for the Rights of Man 
International Social Service 
International Union for Child Welfare 
International Union of Catholic Women's Leagues 
Pax Romana 
Women's International League for Peace and Freedom 
World Jewish Congress 
World Union for Progressive Judaism 
World Young Women's Christian Association








REGISTER








International Relief Committee for Intellectual Workers 
League of Red Cross Societies 
Standing Conference of Voluntary Agencies 
World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts 
World University Service








Representatives of Non-Governmental Organizations which have been granted consultative status by the Economic and Social Council as well as those entered by the Secretary-General on the Register referred to in Resolution 288 B (X) of the Economic and Social Council, paragraph 17, had under the rules of procedure adopted by the Conference the right to submit written or oral statements to the Conference.








The Conference elected Mr. Knud Larsen, of Denmark, as President, and Mr. A. Herment, of Belgium, and Mr. Talat Miras, of Turkey, as Vice-Presidents.








At its second meeting, the Conference, acting on a proposal of the representative of Egypt, unanimously decided to address an invitation to the Holy See to designate a plenipotentiary representative to participate in its work. A representative of the Holy See took his place at the Conference on 10 July 1951.








The Conference adopted as its agenda the Provisional Agenda drawn up by the Secretary-General (A/CON2/2/Rev.1). It also adopted the Provisional Rules of Procedure drawn up by the SecretaryGeneral, with the addition of a provision which authorized a representative of the Council of Europe to be present at the Conference without the right to vote and to submit proposals (A/CONF2/3/Rev.1).






 












Page 121




In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Conference, the President and Vice-Presidents examined the credentials of representatives and on 17 July 1951 reported to the Conference the results of such examination, the Conference adopting the report.








The Conference used as the basis of its discussions the draft Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the draft Protocol relating to the Status of Stateless Persons prepared by the ad hoc Committee on Refugees and Stateless Persons at its second session held in Geneva from 14 to 25 August 1950, with the exception of the preamble and Article 1 (Definition of the term "refugee") of the draft Convention. The text of the preamble before the Conference was that which was adopted by the Economic and Social Council on 11 August 1950 in Resolution 319 B 11 (X1). The text of Article 1 before the Conference was that recommended by the General Assembly on 14 December 1950 and contained in the Annex to Resolution 429 (V). The latter was a modification of the text as it had been adopted by the Economic and Social Council in Resolution 319 B 11 (X1).








The Conference adopted the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees in two readings. Prior to its second reading it established a Style Committee composed of the President and the representatives of Belgium, France, Israel, Italy, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, together with the High Commissioner for Refugees, which elected as its Chairman Mr. G. Warren, of the United States of America. The Style Committee re-drafted the text which had been adopted by the Conference on first reading, particularly from the point of view of language and of concordance between the English and French texts.








The Convention was adopted on 25 July by 24 votes to none with no abstentions and opened for signature at the European Office of the United Nations from 28 July to 31 August 1951. It will be re-opened for signature at the permanent headquarters of the United Nations in New York from 17 September 1951 to 31 December 1952. The English and French texts of the Convention, which are equally authentic, are appended to this Final Act.








II








The Conference decided, by 17 votes to 3 with 3 abstentions, that the titles of the chapters and of the articles of the Convention are included for practical purposes and do not constitute an element of interpretation.








III








With respect to the draft Protocol relating to the Status of Stateless Persons, the Conference adopted the following resolution:








The Conference,






 












Page 122




Having considered the draft Protocol relating to the Status of Stateless Persons,








Considering that the subject still requires more detailed study,








Decides not to take a decision on the subject at the present Conference and refers the draft Protocol back to the appropriate organs of the United Nations for further study. 








IV








The Conference adopted unanimously the following recommendations:








A. [Facilitation of refugee travels]








The Conference,








Considering that the issue and recognition of travel documents is necessary to facilitate the movement of refugees, and in particular their resettlement,








Urges Governments which are parties to the Inter-Governmental Agreement on Refugee Travel Documents signed in London on 15 October 1946, or which recognize travel documents issued in accordance with the Agreement, to continue to issue or to recognize such travel documents, and to extend the issue of such documents to refugees as defined in Article 1 of the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees or to recognize the travel documents so issued to such persons, until they shall have undertaken obligations under Article 28 of the said Convention.








B. [Principle of unity of the family]








The Conference,








Considering that the unity of the family, the natural and fundamental group unit of society, is an essential right of the refugee, and that such unity is constantly threatened, and








Noting with satisfaction that, according to the official commentary of the ad hoc Committee on Statelessness and Related Problems (E/1618, p. 40) the rights granted to a refugee are extended to members of his family,








Recommends Governments to take the necessary measures for the protection of the refugee's family, especially with a view to:








(1) Ensuring that the unity of the refugee's family is maintained particularly in cases where the head of the family has fulfilled the necessary conditions for admission to a particular country,






 












Page 123




(2) The protection of refugees who are minors, in particular unaccompanied children and girls, with special reference to guardianship and adoption. 








C. [Welfare services]








The Conference,








Considering that, in the moral, legal and material spheres, refugees need the help of suitable welfare services, especially that of appropriate non-governmental organizations,








Recommends Governments and inter-governmental bodies to facilitate, encourage and sustain the efforts of properly qualified organizations.








D. [International co-operation in the field of asylum and resettlement]








The Conference,








Considering that many persons still leave their country of origin for reasons of persecution and are entitled to special protection on account of their position,








Recommends that Governments continue to receive refugees in their territories and that they act in concert in a true spirit of international co-operation in order that these refugees may find asylum and the possibility of resettlement.








E. [Extension of treatment provided by the Convention]








The Conference,








Expresses the hope that the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees will have value as an example exceeding its contractual scope and that all nations will be guided by it in granting so far as possible to persons in their territory as refugees and who would not be covered by the terms of the Convention, the treatment for which it provides. 








IN WITNESS WHEREOF the President, Vice-Presidents and the Executive Secretary of the Conference have signed this Final Act.








DONE at Geneva this twenty-eighth day of July one thousand nine hundred and fifty-one in a single copy in the English and French languages, each text being equally authentic. Translations of this Final Act into Chinese, Russian and Spanish will be prepared by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who will, on request, send copies thereof to each of the Governments invited to attend the Conference.








The President of the Conference: Knud Larsen
The Vice-Presidents of the Conference: A. Herment Talat Miras
The Executive Secretary of the Conference: John P. Humphrey






 












Page 124




The 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees








The 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees removed both the dateline and the geographical limitations of the 1951 UN convention, giving the convention a truly universal character. It had become apparent the movement of refugees was not a phenomenon confined to World War II and its aftermath. New refugee groups emerged, particularly in Africa, throughout the late 1950s and 1960s. It therefore became necessary to make the 1951 UN convention applicable in all such refugee situations.








The 1967 protocol is an independent instrument to which states may accede without becoming parties to the convention. States that accede to the protocol undertake to apply the provisions of the convention to refugees who meet the convention definition, but without the 1951 dateline. If a state accedes to the protocol alone, there is no possibility of introducing a geographical limitation.








When acceding to the convention and/or protocol, states may make reservations to articles they feel unable to apply. There are, however, certain articles to which no reservations are permitted, and acceding states must therefore accept. They are as follows:








Article 1, refugee definition
Article 3, nondiscrimination as to race, religion, or country of origin
Article 4, freedom to practice religion
Article 16 (1), free access to courts
Article 33, nonrefoulement








In recent years, the number of accessions to the convention and protocol has grown to over 120. Nevertheless, many major asylum states, including governments in Asia and the Middle East, have not yet signed the major refugee instruments. One of UNHCR's major and ongoing protection tasks is to encourage states to accede to international instruments for the protection of refugees, as well as to supervise their application.








Entry intoforce: 4 October 1967, in accordance with Article VIII








Text: United Nations Treaty Series No. 8791, Vol. 606, p. 267






 












Page 125




The States Parties to the present Protocol,








Considering that the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees done at Geneva on 28 July 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the Convention) covers only those persons who have become refugees as a result of events occurring before 1 January 1951,








Considering that new refugee situations have arisen since the Convention was adopted and that the refugees concerned may therefore not fall within the scope of the Convention,








Considering that it is desirable that equal status should be enjoyed by all refugees covered by the definition in the Convention irrespective of the dateline 1 January 1951,








Have agreed as follows:








ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISION








1. The States Parties to the present Protocol undertake to apply Articles 2 to 34 inclusive of the Convention to refugees as hereinafter defined.








2. For the purpose of the present Protocol, the term "refugee" shall, except as regards the application of paragraph 3 of this Article, mean any person within the definition of Article 1 of the Convention as if the words "As a result of events occurring before 1 January 1951 and .. ." and the words "... as a result of such events", in Article 1 A (2) were omitted.








3. The present Protocol shall be applied by the States Parties hereto without any geographic limitation, save that existing declarations made by States already Parties to the Convention in accordance with Article 1 B (1) (a) of the Convention, shall, unless extended under Article 1 B (2) thereof, apply also under the present Protocol.








ARTICLE II CO-OPERATION OF THE NATIONAL AUTHORITIES WITH THE UNITED NATIONS








1. The States Parties to the present Protocol undertake to co-operate with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, or any other agency of the United Nations which may succeed it, in the exercise of its functions, and shall in particular facilitate its duty of supervising the application of the provisions of the present Protocol.








2. In order to enable the Office of the High Commissioner, or any other agency of the United Nations which may succeed it, to make reports to the competent organs of the United Nations, the States Parties to the present Protocol undertake to provide them with the information and statistical data requested, in the appropriate form, concerning:






 












Page 126





(a)



The condition of refugees;




(b)



The implementation of the present Protocol;




(c)



Laws, regulations and decrees which are, or may hereafter be, in force relating to refugees. 




ARTICLE III
INFORMATION ON NATIONAL LEGISLATION








The States Parties to the present Protocol shall communicate to the Secretary-General of the United Nations the laws and regulations which they may adopt to ensure the application of the present Protocol.








ARTICLE IV
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES








Any dispute between States Parties to the present Protocol which relates to its interpretation or application and which cannot be settled by other means shall be referred to the International Court of Justice at the request of any one of the parties to the dispute.








ARTICLE V
ACCESSION








The present Protocol shall be open for accession on behalf of all States Parties to the Convention and of any other State Member of the United Nations or member of any of the specialized agencies or to which an invitation to accede may have been addressed by the General Assembly of the United Nations. Accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of accession with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.








ARTICLE VI
FEDERAL CLAUSE








In the case of a Federal or non-unitary State, the following provisions shall apply:









(a)



With respect to those articles of the Convention to be applied in accordance with Article I, paragraph 1, of the present Protocol that come within the legislative jurisdiction of the federal legislative authority, the obligations of the Federal Government shall to this extent be the same as those of States Parties which are not Federal States;




(b)



With respect to those articles of the Convention to be applied in accordance with Article I, paragraph 1, of the present Protocol that come within the legislative jurisdiction of


 












Page 127





constituent States, provinces or cantons which are not, under the constitutional system of the federation, bound to take legislative action, the Federal Government shall bring such articles with a favourable recommendation to the notice of the appropriate authorities of States, provinces or cantons at the earliest possible moment;



(c)A Federal State Party to the present Protocol shall, at the request of any other State Party hereto transmitted through the Secretary-General of the United Nations, supply a statement of the law and practice of the Federation and its constituent units in regard to any particular provision of the Convention to be applied in accordance with Article I, paragraph 1, of the present Protocol, showing the extent to which effect has been given to that provision by legislative or other action.




ARTICLE VII
RESERVATIONS AND DECLARATIONS








1. At the time of accession, any State may make reservations in respect of Article IV of the present Protocol and in respect of the application in accordance with Article I of the present Protocol of any provisions of the Convention other than those contained in Articles 1, 3, 4, 16 (1) and 33 thereof, provided that in the case of a State Party to the Convention reservations made under this Article shall not extend to refugees in respect of whom the Convention applies.








2. Reservations made by States Parties to the Convention in accordance with Article 42 thereof shall, unless withdrawn, be applicable in relation to their obligations under the present Protocol.








3. Any State making a reservation in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article may at any time withdraw such reservation by a communication to that effect addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.








4. Declarations made under Article 40, paragraphs 1 and 2, of the Convention by a State Party thereto which accedes to the present Protocol shall be deemed to apply in respect of the present Protocol, unless upon accession a notification to the contrary is addressed by the State Party concerned to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The provisions of Article 40, paragraphs 2 and 3, and of Article 44, paragraph 3, of the Convention shall be deemed to apply mutatis mutandis to the present Protocol.








ARTICLE VIII
ENTRY INTO FORCE








1. The present Protocol shall come into force on the day of deposit of the sixth instrument of accession.






 












Page 128




2. For each State acceding to the Protocol after the deposit of the sixth instrument of accession, the Protocol shall come into force on the date of deposit by such State of its instrument of accession.








ARTICLE IX
DENUNCIATION








1. Any State Party hereto may denounce this Protocol at any time by a notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.








2. Such denunciation shall take effect for the State Party concerned one year from the date on which it is received by the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations.








ARTICLE X
NOTIFICATIONS BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE UNITED NATIONS








The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall inform the States referred to in Article V above of the date of entry into force, accessions, reservations and withdrawals of reservations to and denunciations of the present Protocol, and of declarations and notifications relating hereto.








ARTICLE XI
DEPOSIT IN THE ARCHIVES OF THE SECRETARIAT OF THE UNITED NATIONS








A copy of the present Protocol, of which the Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, signed by the President of the General Assembly and by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, shall be deposited in the archives of the Secretariat of the United Nations. The Secretary-General will transmit certified copies thereof to all States Members of the United Nations and to the other States referred to in Article V above.








APPENDIX 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY RESOLUTION 2198(XXI) 
Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees








The General Assembly,








Considering that the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees, signed at Geneva on 28 July 1951, covers only those persons who have become refugees as a result of events occurring before 1 January 1951,








Considering that new refugee situations have arisen since the Convention was adopted and that the refugees concerned may therefore not fall within the scope of the Convention,








Considering that it is desirable that equal status should be enjoyed by all refugees covered by the definition in the Convention, irrespective of the date-line of 1 January 1951,






 












Page 129




Taking note of the recommendation of the Executive Committee of the Programme of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees that the draft Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees should be submitted to the General Assembly after consideration by the Economic and Social Council, in order that the SecretaryGeneral might be authorized to open the Protocol for accession by Governments within the shortest possible time,








Considering that the Economic and Social Council, in its resolution 1186 (XLI) of 18 November 1966, took note with approval of the draft Protocol contained in the addendum to the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and concerning measures to extend the personal scope of the Convention and transmitted the addendum to the General Assembly, 









1.



Takes note of the Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees, the text of which is contained in the addendum to the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees;




2.



Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the text of the Protocol to the States mentioned in article V thereof, with a view to enabling them to accede to the Protocol.




1495th plenary meeting, 
16 December 1966.








The United Nations Declaration on Territorial Asylum (1967)








The United Nations Declaration on Territorial Asylum (1967) recalls Articles 13 and 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and states the principle of nonrefoulement in broad terms, including nonrejection at the frontier. It also recognizes that the granting of asylum by a state is a peaceful and humanitarian act that cannot be regarded as unfriendly by another state. 








Adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 14 December 1967 (resolution 2312 (XXII))








The General Assembly,








Recalling its resolutions 1839 (XVII) of 19 December 1962, 2100 (XX) of 20 December 1965 and 2203 (XXI) of 16 December 1966 concerning a declaration on the right of asylum,








Considering the work of codification to be undertaken by the International Law Commission in accordance with General Assembly resolution 1400 (XIV) of 21 November 1959,








Adopts the following Declaration:






 












Page 130




DECLARATION ON TERRITORIAL ASYLUM








The General Assembly,








Noting that the purposes proclaimed in the Charter of the United Nations are to maintain international peace and security, to develop friendly relations among all nations and to achieve international co-operation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,








Mindful of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which declares in article 14 that:








1. Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.








2. This right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions genuinely arising from non-political crimes or from acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations,'' 








Recalling also article 13, paragraph 2, of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states:








"Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country,"








Recognizing that the grant of asylum by a State to persons entitled to invoke article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a peaceful and humanitarian act and that, as such, it cannot be regarded as unfriendly by any other State,








Recommends that, without prejudice to existing instruments dealing with asylum and the status of refugees and stateless persons, States should base themselves in their practices relating to territorial asylum on the following principles: 








ARTICLE 1








1. Asylum granted by a State, in the exercise of its sovereignty, to persons entitled to invoke article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, including persons struggling against colonialism, shall be respected by all other States.








2. The right to seek and to enjoy asylum may not be invoked by any person with respect to whom there are serious reasons for considering that he has committed a crime against peace, a war crime or a crime against humanity, as defined in the international instruments drawn up to make provision in respect of such crimes.








3. It shall rest with the State granting asylum to evaluate the grounds for the grant of asylum.






 












Page 131




ARTICLE 2








1.The situation of persons referred to in article 1, paragraph 1, is, without prejudice to the sovereignty of States and the purposes and principles of the United Nations, of concern to the international community.








2. Where a State finds difficulty in granting or continuing to grant asylum, States individually or jointly or through the United Nations shall consider, in a spirit of international solidarity, appropriate measures to lighten the burden on that State. 








ARTICLE 3








1. No person referred to in article 1, paragraph 1, shall be subjected to measures such as rejection at the frontier or, if he has already entered the territory in which he seeks asylum, expulsion or compulsory return to any State where he may be subjected to persecution.








2. Exception may be made to the foregoing principle only for overriding reasons of national security or in order to safeguard the population, as in the case of a mass influx of persons.








3. Should a State decide in any case that exception to the principle stated in paragraph 1 of this article would be justified, it shall consider the possibility of granting to the person concerned, under such conditions as it may deem appropriate, an opportunity, whether by way of provisional asylum or otherwise, of going to another State. 








ARTICLE 4








States granting asylum shall not permit persons who have received asylum to engage in activities contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. 








The Organization of African Unity Convention Governing the Specific Aspects of Refugee Problems in Africa








The Organization of African Unity (OAU) Convention Governing the Specific Aspects of Refugee Problems in Africa, adopted in 1969, is the most important of several regional refugee instruments. It contains a broader refugee definition than the internationally accepted definition found in the 1951 UN convention and the 1967 UN protocol. It does not include any temporal or geographical limitations or any reference to earlier categories of refugees. The OAU convention also regulates the question of asylum (Article II) and prohibits subversive activities by refugees






 












Page 132




(Article III). In addition, it stipulates that repatriation must be a voluntary act (Article V). 








Adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government at its Sixth Ordinary Session (Addis Ababa, 10 September 1969)








Entry into Force: 20June 1974, in accordance with Article XI








Text: United Nations Treaty Series No. 14 691








PREAMBLE








We, the Heads of State and Government assembled in the city of Addis Ababa, from 6-10 September 1969,









1.



Noting with concern the constantly increasing numbers of refugees in Africa and desirous of finding ways and means of alleviating their misery and suffering as well as providing them with a better life and future,




2.



Recognizing the need for and essentially humanitarian approach towards solving the problems of refugees,




3.



Aware, however, that refugee problems are a source of friction among many Member States, and desirous of eliminating the source of such discord,




4.



Anxious to make a distinction between a refugee who seeks a peaceful and normal life and a person fleeing his country for the sole purpose of fomenting subversion from outside,




5.



Determined that the activities of such subversive elements should be discouraged in accordance with the Declaration on the Problem of Subversion and Resolution on the Problem of Refugees adopted at Accra in 1965,




6.



Bearing in mind that the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights have affirmed the principle that human beings shall enjoy fundamental rights and freedoms without discrimination,




7.



Recalling Resolution 2312 (XXII) of 14 December 1967 of the United Nations General Assembly, relating to the Declaration on Territorial Asylum,




8.



Convinced that all the problems of our continent must be solved in the Spirit of the Charter of the Organization of African Unity and in the African context,




9.



Recognizing that the United Nations Convention of 28 July 1951, as modified by the Protocol of 31 January 1967, constitutes the basic and universal instrument relating to the status of refugees and reflects the deep concern of States for refugees and their desire to establish common standards for their treatment,


 












Page 133





10.



Recalling Resolutions 26 and 104 of the OAU Assemblies of Heads of State and Government, calling upon Member States of the Organization who had not already done so to accede to the United Nations Convention of 1951 and to the Protocol of 1967 relating to the Status of Refugees, and meanwhile to apply their provisions to refugees in Africa,




11.



Convinced that the efficiency of the measures recommended by the present Convention to solve the problem of refugees in Africa necessitates close and continuous collaboration between the Organization of African Unity and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 




Have agreed as follows:








ARTICLE I DEFINITION OF THE TERM "REFUGEE"








1.For the purposes of this Convention, the term "refugee" shall mean every person who, owing to well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country, or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence as a result of such events is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to it.








2.The term "refugee" shall also apply to every person who, owing to external aggression, occupation, foreign domination or events seriously disturbing public order in either part or the whole of his country of origin or nationality, is compelled to leave his place of habitual residence in order to seek refuge in another place outside his country of origin or nationality.








3.In the case of a person who has several nationalities, the term "a country of which he is a national" shall mean each of the countries of which he is a national, and a person shall not be deemed to be lacking the protection of the country of which he is a national if, without any valid reason based on well-founded fear, he has not availed himself of the protection of one of the countries of which he is a national.








4. This Convention shall cease to apply to any refugee if:









(a)



he has voluntarily re-availed himself of the protection of the country of his nationality, or,




(b)



having lost his nationality, he has voluntarily reacquired it, or,




(c)



he has acquired a new nationality, and enjoys the protection of the country of his new nationality, or,


 












Page 134





(d)



he has voluntarily re-established himself in the country which he left or outside which he remained owing to fear of persecution, or,




(e)



he can no longer, because the circumstances in connection with which he was recognized as a refugee have ceased to exist, continue to refuse to avail himself of the protection of the country of his nationality, or,




(f)



he has committed a serious non-political crime outside his country of refuge after his admission to that country as a refuge, or,




(g)



he has seriously infringed the purposes and objectives of this Convention. 




5. The provisions of this Convention shall not apply to any person with respect to whom the country of asylum has serious reasons for considering that: 









(a)



he has committed a crime against peace, a war crime, or a crime against humanity, as defined in the international instruments drawn up to make provision in respect of such crimes;




(b)



he committed a serious non-political crime outside the country of refuge prior to his admission to that country as a refugee;




(c)



he has been guilty of acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the Organization of African Unity;




(d)



he has been guilty of acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. 




6. For the purposes of this Convention, the Contracting State of Asylum shall determine whether an applicant is a refugee. 








ARTICLE II ASYLUM








1. Member States of the OAU shall use their best endeavours consistent with their respective legislations to receive refugees and to secure the settlement of those refugees who, for well-founded reasons, are unable or unwilling to return to their country of origin or nationality.








2. The grant of asylum to refugees is a peaceful and humanitarian act and shall not be regarded as an unfriendly act by any Member State.








3. No person shall be subjected by a Member State to measures such as rejection at the frontier, return or expulsion, which would compel him to return to or remain in a territory where his life, physical integrity or liberty would be threatened for the reasons set out in Article I, paragraphs 1 and 2.






 












Page 135




4. Where a Member State finds difficulty in continuing to grant asylum to refugees, such Member State may appeal directly to other Member States and through the OAU, and such other Member States shall in the spirit of African solidarity and international co-operation take appropriate measures to lighten the burden of the Member State granting asylum.








5. Where a refugee has not received the right to reside in any country of asylum, he may be granted temporary residence in any country of asylum in which he first presented himself as a refugee pending arrangement for his resettlement in accordance with the preceding paragraph.








6. For reasons of security, countries of asylum shall, as far as possible settle refugees at a reasonable distance from the frontier of their country of origin. 








ARTICLE III PROHIBITION OF SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES








1. Every refugee has duties to the country in which he finds himself which require in particular that he conforms with its laws and regulations as well as with measures taken for the maintenance of public order. He shall also abstain from any subversive activities against any Member State of the OAU.








2. Signatory States undertake to prohibit refugees residing in their respective territories from attacking any State Member of the OAU, by any activity likely to cause tension between Member States, and in particular by use of arms, through the press, or by radio.








ARTICLE IV NON-DISCRIMINATION








Member States undertake to apply the provisions of this Convention to all refugees without discrimination as to race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinions. 








ARTICLE V 
VOLUNTARY REPATRIATION








1. The essentially voluntary character of repatriation shall be respected in all cases and no refugee shall be repatriated against his will.








2. The country of asylum, in collaboration with the country of origin, shall make adequate arrangements for the safe return of refugees who request repatriation.








3. The country of origin, on receiving back refugees, shall facilitate their resettlement and grant them the full rights and privileges of nationals of the country, and subject them to the same obligations.






 












Page 136




4. Refugees who voluntarily return to their country shall in no way be penalized for having left it for any of the reasons giving rise to refugee situations. Whenever necessary, an appeal shall be made through national information media and through the Administrative Secretary-General of the OAU, inviting refugees to return home and giving assurance that the new circumstances prevailing in their country of origin will enable them to return without risk and to take up a normal and peaceful life without fear of being disturbed or punished, and that the text of such appeal should be given to refugees and clearly explained to them by their country of asylum.








5. Refugees who freely decide to return to their homeland, as a result of such assurances or on their own initiative, shall be given every possible assistance by the country of asylum, the country of origin, voluntary agencies and international and intergovernmental organizations, to facilitate their return.








ARTICLE VI TRAVEL DOCUMENTS








1. Subject to Article III, Member States shall issue to refugees lawfully staying in their territories travel documents in accordance with the United Nations Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the Schedule and Annex thereto, for the purpose of travel outside their territory, unless compelling reasons of national security or public order otherwise require. Member States may issue such a travel document to any other refugee in their territory.








2. Where an African country of second asylum accepts a refugee from a country of first asylum, the country of first asylum may be dispensed from issuing a document with a return clause.








3. Travel documents issued to refugees under previous international agreements by States Parties thereto shall be recognized and treated by Member States in the same way as if they had been issued to refugees pursuant to this Article. 








ARTICLE VII CO-OPERATION OF THE NATIONAL AUTHORITIES 
WITH THE ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY








In order to enable the Administrative Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity to make reports to the competent organs of the Organization of African Unity, Member States undertake to provide the Secretariat in the appropriate form with information and statistical data requested concerning: 









(a)



the condition of refugees;




(b)



the implementation of this Convention, and


 












Page 137





(c)



laws, regulations and decrees which are, or may hereafter be, in force relating to refugees.




ARTICLE VIII CO-OPERATION WITH THE OFFICE OF THE UNITED NATIONS 
HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGES








1. Member States shall co-operate with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.








2. The present Convention shall be the effective regional complement in Africa of the 1951 United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees. 








ARTICLE IX 
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES








Any dispute between States signatories to this Convention relating to its interpretation or application, which cannot be settled by other means, shall be referred to the Commission for Mediation, Conciliation and Arbitration of the Organization of African Unity, at the request of any one of the Parties to the dispute. 








ARTICLE X 
SIGNATURE AND RATIFICATION








1. This Convention is open for signature and accession by all Member States of the Organization of African Unity and shall be ratified by signatory States in accordance with their respective constitutional processes. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Administrative Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity.








2. The original instrument, done if possible in African languages, and in English and French, all texts being equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Administrative Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity.








3. Any independent African State, Member of the Organization of African Unity, may at any time notify the Administrative SecretaryGeneral of the Organization of African Unity of its accession to this Convention. 








ARTICLE XI 
ENTRY INTO FORCE








This Convention shall come into force upon deposit of instruments of ratification by one-third of the Member States of the Organization of African Unity.






 












Page 138




ARTICLE XII
AMENDMENT








This Convention may be amended or revised if any member State makes a written request to the Administrative Secretary-General to that effect, provided however that the proposed amendment shall not be submitted to the Assembly of Heads of State and Government for consideration until all Member States have been duly notified of it and a period of one year has elapsed. Such an amendment shall not be effective unless approved by at least two-thirds of the Member States Parties to the present Convention.








ARTICLE XIII
DENUNCIATION








1. Any Member State Party to this Convention may denounce its provisions by a written notification to the Administrative Secretary-General. 
2. At the end of one year from the date of such notification, if not withdrawn, the Convention shall cease to apply with respect to the denouncing State.








ARTICLE XIV








Upon entry into force of this Convention, the Administrative Secretary-General of the OAU shall register it with the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations, in accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.








ARTICLE XV
NOTIFICATIONS BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARY-GENERAL
OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY








The Administrative Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity shall inform all Members of the Organization: 









(a)



of signatures, ratifications and accessions in accordance with Article X;




(b)



of entry into force, in accordance with Article XI;




(c)



of requests for amendments submitted under the terms of Article XII;




(d)



of denunciations, in accordance with Article XIII. 




IN WITNESS WHEREOF we, the Heads of African State and Government, have signed this Convention.






 












Page 139





1. Algeria



14. Ghana29. Rwanda2. Botswana15. Guinea30. Senegal3. Burundi16. Ivory Coast31. Sierra Leone4. Cameroon17. Kenya32. Somalia5. Central African




18. Lesotho



33. Sudan




Republic



19. Liberia34. Swaziland6. Chad20. Libya35. Togo7. Congo21. Madagascar36. Tunisia




(Brazaville)



22. Malawi37. Uganda8. Congo (Kinshasa)23. Mali38. United Arab9. Dahomey24. Mauritania




Republic



10. Equatorial Guinea25. Mauritius 39. United Republic11. Ethiopia26. Morocco




of Tanzania



12. Gabon27. Niger40. Upper Volta13. Gambia28. Nigeria41. Zambia




 DONE in the City of Addis Ababa this 10th day of September 1969. 








The Convention on Territorial Asylum of 1954








 The Convention on Territorial Asylum of 1954 is one of a series of instruments on territorial and diplomatic asylum in Latin America. It reaffirms the territorial state's sovereign right to grant asylum, the duty of other states to respect such asylum, and the state's exemption from any obligation to surrender or expel persons "sought for political offenses" or "persecuted for political reasons or offenses." 








Signed in Caracas on March 28, 1954 
at the Tenth Inter-American Conference








Entry intoforce: 29 December 1954, in accordance with Article 14








Text: OAS Official Records, OEA/Ser.X/I. Treaty Series 34








The Governments of the Member States of the Organization of American States, desirous of concluding a Convention regarding Territorial Asylum, have agreed to the following articles: 








ARTICLE 1








Every State has the right, in the exercise of its sovereignty, to admit into its territory such persons as it deems advisable, without, through the exercise of this right, giving rise to complaint by any other State.






 












Page 140




ARTICLE 2








The respect which, according to international law, is due to the jurisdictional right of each State over the inhabitants in its territory, is equally due, without any restriction whatsoever, to that which it has over persons who enter it proceeding from a State in which they are persecuted for their beliefs, opinions, or political affiliations, or for acts which may be considered as political offenses.








Any violation of sovereignty that consists of acts committed by a government or its agents in another State against the life or security of an individual, carried out on the territory of another State, may not be considered attenuated because the persecution began outside its boundaries or is due to political considerations or reasons of state.








ARTICLE 3








No state is under the obligation to surrender to another State, or to expel from its own territory, persons persecuted for political reasons or offenses.








ARTICLE 4








The right of extradition is not applicable in connection with persons who, in accordance with the qualifications of the solicited State, are sought for political offenses, or for common offenses committed for political ends, or when extradition is solicited for predominantly political motives.








ARTICLE 5








The fact that a person has entered into the territorial jurisdiction of a State surreptitiously or irregularly does not affect the provisions of this Convention.








ARTICLE 6








Without prejudice to the provisions of the following articles, no State is under the obligation to establish any distinction in its legislation, or in its regulations or administrative acts applicable to aliens, solely because of the fact that they are political asylees or refugees.








ARTICLE 7








Freedom of expression of thought, recognized by domestic law for all inhabitants of a State, may not be ground of complaint by a third State on the basis of opinions expressed publicly against it or its government by asylees or refugees, except when these concepts constitute systematic propaganda through which they incite to the use of force or violence against the government of the complaining State.






 












Page 141




ARTICLE 8








No State has the right to request that another State restrict for the political asylees or refugees the freedom of assembly or association which the latter States's internal legislation grants to all aliens within its territory, unless such assembly or association has as its purpose fomenting the use of force or violence against the government of the soliciting State.








ARTICLE 9








At the request of the interested State, the State that has granted refuge or asylum shall take steps to keep watch over, or to intern at a reasonable distance from its border, those political refugees or asylees who are notorious leaders of a subversive movement, as well as those against whom there is evidence that they are disposed to join it.








Determination of the reasonable distance from the border, for the purpose of internment, shall depend upon the judgment of the authorities of the State of refuge.








All expenses incurred as a result of the internment of political asylees and refugees shall be chargeable to the State that makes the request.








ARTICLE 10








The political internees referred to in the preceding article shall advise the government of the host State whenever they wish to leave its territory. Departure therefrom will be granted, under the condition that they are not to go to the country from which they came and the interested government is to be notified.








ARTICLE 1 1








In all cases in which a complaint or request is permissible in accordance with this Convention, the admissibility of evidence presented by the demanding State shall depend on the judgment of the solicited State.








ARTICLE 12








This Convention remains open to the signature of the Member States of the Organization of American States, and shall be ratified by the signatory States in accordance with their respective constitutional procedures.








ARTICLE 13








The original instrument, whose texts in the English, French, Portuguese, and Spanish languages are equally authentic, shall be






 












Page 142




deposited in the Pan American Union, which shall send certified copies to the governments for the purpose of ratification. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited in the Pan American Union; this organization shall notify the signatory governments of said deposit.








ARTICLE 14








This Convention shall take effect among the States that ratify it in the order in which their respective ratifications are deposited. 








ARTICLE 15








This Convention shall remain effective indefinitely, but may be denounced by any of the signatory States by giving advance notice of one year, at the end of which period it shall cease to have effect for the denouncing State, remaining, however, in force among the remaining signatory States. The denunciation shall be forwarded to the Pan American Union which shall notify the other signatory States thereof.








IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, having presented their plenary powers which have been found in good and satisfactory form, sign this Convention, in the name of their respective Governments, in the city of Caracas, this twenty-eighth day of March, one thousand nine hundred and fifty-four.








Here follow the signatures of the Plenipotentiaries.








RESERVATIONS








GUATEMALA








We make express reservation to Article 3 (three) wherein it refers to the surrender of persons persecuted for political reasons or offenses; because according to the provisions of our Political Constitution, we maintain that such surrender of persons persecuted for political reasons may never be carried out.








We affirm, likewise, that the term ''internment" in Article 9 means merely location at a distance from the border. 








DOMINICAN REPUBLIC








The delegation of the Dominican Republic subscribes to the Convention on Territorial Asylum, with the following reservations:








Article 1. The Dominican Republic accepts the general principle embodied in that article in the sense that "Every State has the right to admit into its territory such persons as it deems 






 












Page 143




advisable", but it does not renounce the right to make diplomatic representation to any other State, if for considerations of national security it deems this advisable.








Article 2. It accepts the second paragraph of this article with the understanding that the latter does not affect the regulations of the frontier police.








Article 10. The Dominican Republic does not renounce the right to resort to the procedures for pacific settlement of international disputes that may arise from the exercise of territorial asylum.








MEXICO








The delegation of Mexico makes express reservation to Articles 9 and 10 of the Convention regarding territorial asylum because they are contrary to the individual guarantees enjoyed by all the inhabitants of the Republic in accordance with the Political Constitution of Mexico.








PERU








The delegation of Peru makes reservation to the text of Article 7 of the Convention regarding Territorial Asylum, insofar as it differs from Article 6 of the draft proposal of the Inter-American Council of Jurists, with which the delegation concurs.








HONDURAS








The delegation of Honduras gives its approval to the Convention regarding Territorial Asylum with reservations with respect to those articles opposed to the Constitution and to the laws in force in the Republic of Honduras.








ARGENTINA








The delegation of Argentina has voted in favor of the Convention regarding Territorial Asylum, but makes express reservations in regard to Article 7, as it believes that the latter does not duly consider nor satisfactorily resolve the problem arising from the exercise, on the part of political asylees, of the right of freedom of expression of thought. 








The Convention on Diplomatic Asylum Signed in Caracas, March 28,1954 at the Tenth Inter-American Conference








The Convention on Diplomatic Asylum, signed in 1954, is another of several major refugee instruments in Latin America, a continent






 












Page 144




with a long history of political asylum. While acknowledging that "every state has a right to grant asylum," the Convention on Diplomatic Asylum stresses that an asylum country "is not obligated to do so or state its reasons for refusing [asylum]" and that it remains with ''the state granting asylum to determine the nature of the offense or the motives for the persecution."








Entry into force: 29 December 1954, in accordance with Article 23








Text: OAS Official Records, OEA/Ser.X/I. Treaty Series 34








The Governments of the Member States of the Organization of American States, desirous of concluding a Convention on Diplomatic Asylum, have agreed to the following articles:








ARTICLE 1








Asylum granted in legations, war vessels, and military camps or aircraft, to persons being sought for political reasons or for political offenses shall be respected by the territorial State in accordance with the provisions of this Convention.








For the purposes of this Convention, a legation is any seat of a regular diplomatic mission, the residence of chiefs of mission, and the premises provided by them for the dwelling places of asylees when the number of the latter exceeds the normal capacity of the buildings.








War vessels or military aircraft that may be temporarily in shipyards, arsenals, or shops for repair may not constitute a place of asylum.








ARTICLE 2








Every State has the right to grant asylum; but it is not obligated to do so or to state its reasons for refusing it.








ARTICLE 3








It is not lawful to grant asylum to persons who, at the time of requesting it, are under indictment or on trial for common offenses or have been convicted by competent regular courts and have not served the respective sentence, nor to deserters from land, sea, and air forces, save when the acts giving rise to the request for asylum, whatever the case may be, are clearly of a political nature.








Persons included in the foregoing paragraph who de facto enter a place that is suitable as an asylum shall be invited to leave or, as the case may be, shall be surrendered to the local authorities, who may not






 












Page 145




try them for political offenses committed prior to the time of the surrender.








ARTICLE 4








It shall rest with the State granting asylum to determine the nature of the offense or the motives for the persecution.








ARTICLE 5








Asylum may not be granted except in urgent cases and for the period of time strictly necessary for the asylee to depart from the country with the guarantees granted by the Government of the territorial State, to the end that his life, liberty, or personal integrity may not be endangered, or that the asylee's safety is ensured in some other way.








ARTICLE 6








Urgent cases are understood to be those, among others, in which the individual is being sought by persons or mobs over whom the authorities have lost control, or by the authorities themselves, and is in danger of being deprived of his life or liberty because of political persecution and cannot, without risk, ensure his safety in any other way.








ARTICLE 7








If a case of urgency is involved, it shall rest with the State granting asylum to determine the degree of urgency of the case.








ARTICLE 8








The diplomatic representative, commander of a warship, military camp, or military airship, shall, as soon as possible after asylum has been granted, report the fact to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the territorial State, or to the local administrative authority if the case arose outside the Capital.








ARTICLE 9








The official furnishing asylum shall take into account the information furnished to him by the territorial government in forming his judgment as to the nature of the offense or the existence of related common crimes; but this decision to continue the asylum or to demand a safe-conduct for the asylee shall be respected.








ARTICLE 10








The fact that the Government of the territorial State is not recognized by the State granting asylum shall not prejudice the application of the






 












Page 146




present Convention, and no act carried out by virtue of this Convention shall imply recognition.








ARTICLE 11








The Government of the territorial State, may, at any time, demand that the asylee be withdrawn from the country, for which purpose the said State shall grant a safe-conduct and the guarantees stipulated in Article 5.








ARTICLE 12








Once asylum has been granted, the State granting asylum may request that the asylee be allowed to depart for foreign territory, and the territorial State is under obligation to grant immediately, except in case of force majeure, the necessary guarantees, referred to in Article 5, as well as the corresponding safe-conduct.








ARTICLE 13








In the cases referred to in the preceding articles the State granting asylum may require that the guarantees be given in writing, and may take into account, in determining the rapidity of the journey, the actual conditions of danger involved in the departure of the asylee.








The State granting asylum has the right to transfer the asylee out of the country. The territorial State may point out the preferable route for the departure of the asylee, but this does not imply determining the country of destination.








If the asylum is granted on board a warship or military airship, departure may be made therein, but complying with the previous requisite of obtaining the appropriate safe-conduct.








ARTICLE 14








The State granting asylum cannot be held responsible for the prolongation of asylum caused by the need for obtaining the information required to determine whether or not the said asylum is proper, or whether there are circumstances that might endanger the safety of the asylee during the journey to a foreign country.








ARTICLE 15








When, in order to transfer an asylee to another country it may be necessary to traverse the territory of a State that is a party to this Convention, transit shall be authorized by the latter, the only requisite being the presentation, through diplomatic channels, of a safeconduct, duly countersigned and bearing a notation of his status as asylee by the diplomatic mission that granted asylum.






 












Page 147




En route, the asylee shall be considered under the protection of the State granting asylum.








ARTICLE 16








Asylees may not be landed at any point in the territorial State or at any place near thereto, except for exigencies of transportation.








ARTICLE 17








Once the departure of the asylee has been carried out, the State granting asylum is not bound to settle him in its territory; but it may not return him to his country of origin, unless this is the express wish of the asylee.








If the territorial State informs the official granting asylum of its intention to request the subsequent extradition of the asylee, this shall not prejudice the application of any provision of the present Convention. In that event, the asylee shall remain in the territory of the State granting asylum until such time as the formal request for extradition is received, in accordance with the juridical principles governing that institution in the State granting asylum. Preventive surveillance over the asylee may not exceed thirty days.








Payment of the expenses incurred by such transfer and of preventive control shall devolve upon the requesting State.








ARTICLE 18








The official furnishing asylum may not allow the asylee to perform acts contrary to the public peace or to interfere in the internal politics of the territorial State.








ARTICLE 19








If as a consequence of a rupture of diplomatic relations the diplomatic representative who granted asylum must leave the territorial State, he shall abandon it with the asylees. If this is not possible for reasons independent of the wish of the asylee or the diplomatic representative, he must surrender them to the diplomatic mission of a third State, which is a party to this Convention, under the guarantees established in the Convention. If this is also not possible, he shall surrender them to a State that is not a party to this Convention and that agrees to maintain the asylum. The territorial State is to respect the said asylum.








ARTICLE 20








Diplomatic asylum shall not be subject to reciprocity. Every person is under its protection, whatever his nationality.






 












Page 148




ARTICLE 21








The present Convention shall be open for signature by the Member States of the Organization of American States and shall be ratified by the signatory States in accordance with their respective constitutional procedures.








ARTICLE 22








The original instrument, whose texts in the English, French, Spanish, and Portuguese languages are equally authentic, shall be deposited in the Pan American Union, which shall send certified copies to the governments for the purpose of ratification. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited in the Pan American Union, and the said organization shall notify the signatory governments of the said deposit.








ARTICLE 23








The present Convention shall enter into force among the States that ratify it in the order in which their respective ratifications are deposited.








ARTICLE 24








The present Convention shall remain in force indefinitely, but may be denounced by any of the signatory States by giving advance notice of one year, at the end of which period it shall cease to have effect for the denouncing State, remaining in force, however, among the remaining signatory States. The denunciation shall be transmitted to the Pan American Union, which shall inform the other signatory States thereof.








IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, having presented their plenary powers, which have been found in good and due form, sign this Convention, in the name of their respective Governments, in the city of Caracas, this twenty-eighth day of March, one thousand nine hundred and fifty-four.








Here follow the signatures of the Plenipotentiaries.








RESERVATIONS








GUATEMALA








We make an express reservation to Article 2 wherein it declares that the States are not obligated to grant asylum; because we uphold a broad, firm concept of the right to asylum.








Likewise, we make an express reservation to the final paragraph of Article 20 (Twenty), because we maintain that any person, without any discrimination whatsoever, has the right to the protection of asylum.






 












Page 149




URUGUAY








The government of Uruguay makes a reservation to Article 2, in the part that stipulates that the authority granting asylum, is, in no case, obligated to grant asylum nor to state its reasons for refusing it. It likewise makes a reservation to that part of Article 15 that stipulates: "... the only requisite being the presentation, through diplomatic channels, of a safe-conduct, duly countersigned and bearing a notation of his status as asylee by the diplomatic mission that granted asylum. En route, the asylee shall be considered under the protection of the State granting asylum." Finally, it makes a reservation to the second paragraph of Article 20, since the government of Uruguay understands that all persons have the right to asylum, whatever their sex, nationality, belief, or religion.








DOMINICAN REPUBLIC








The Dominican Republic subscribes to the above Convention with the following reservations:








First: The Dominican Republic does not agree to the provisions contained in Article 7 and those following with respect to the unilateral determination of the urgency by the State granting asylum; and








Second: The provisions of this Convention shall not be applicable, consequently, insofar as the Dominican Republic is concerned, to any controversies that may arise between the territorial State and the State granting asylum, that refer specifically to the absence of a serious situation or the non-existence of a true act of persecution against the asylee by the local authorities.








HONDURAS








The delegation of Honduras subscribes to the Convention on Diplomatic Asylum with reservations with respect to those articles that are in violation of the Constitution and laws in force in the Republic of Honduras.








Other Significant Universal Refugee Instruments








In addition to the key legal refugee instruments listed above, there have been a number of other significant refugee instruments at both the universal and regional levels. Because of the limited space available, these texts are not reproduced here. The full documents can be found in UNHCR, Collection of International Instruments concerning Refugees (1979); Guy Goodwin-Gill, The Refugee in Intenational Law (1983); and UN Center for Human Rights, Human Rights Bibliography: United Nations Documents and






 












Page 150




Publications, 1980-1990) (1993). Many of the most important ones are summarized below.








Convention Relating to the Status of Stateless Persons (1954)








This convention defines the standards of treatment to be accorded to stateless persons, which are, broadly speaking, the same as those for refugees.








Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness (1961)








This document seeks mainly to avoid statelessness at birth by granting the nationality of the acceding state to persons born in their territory who would otherwise be stateless. It also provides, subject to certain exceptions, that a person should not be deprived of his or her nationality if this would result in making them stateless, and specifies that a person shall not be deprived of his or her nationality on racial, religious, or political grounds.








Fourth Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of CivilianPersons in Time of War (1949)








The Fourth Geneva Convention contains an article dealing with refugees and displaced persons. This Protocol Additional (1977) provides specifically (Article 73) that refugees and stateless persons shall be protected persons under the meaning of Parts I and III of the Fourth Geneva Convention. These legal instruments, the so-called laws of warfare, have become increasingly important with the mounting number of internal conflicts in recent years.








Other Significant Regional Refugee Instruments








Cartagena Declaration on Refugees of 1984








This declaration, like the 1969 OAU convention (see Text 5 above), broadens the definition of the term refugee found in the 1951 UN convention to include those persons who have fled their country because their lives, safety, or freedom have been threatened by generalized violence, foreign aggression, internal conflicts, massive violation of human rights, or other circumstances that have seriously disturbed public order (Conclusion 3). Although a nonbinding instrument, the Cartagena Declaration has been accepted and is being






 












Page 151




applied by Latin American states to the degree that it has entered the domain of international law.








Dublin Convention








The Convention Determining the State Responsible for Examining Applications for Asylum Lodged in One of the Member States of the European Community was signed by the member states of the European Community at Dublin on 15 June 1990 in what is known as the Dublin Convention. It is one of the collective measures taken by member states towards the realization of a single market and the elimination of controls at internal European Union borders.








In the preamble, the signatories to the Dublin Convention express their determination to guarantee adequate protection to refugees in keeping with their common humanitarian tradition. The Dublin Convention also contains an expression of the signatories' awareness of the need to take measures to avoid leaving applicants for asylum in doubt for too long as regards the likely outcome of their applications. The signatories also state their concern to provide all asylum applicants with a guarantee that their applications will be examined by one of the member states and to ensure that applicants are not referred successively from one member state to another.








In accordance with these objectives, the Dublin Convention sets rules for determining the state responsible for examining applications for asylum. It also elaborates on the circumstances and the conditions that govern the transfer or readmission of applicants between member states. It provides, moreover, for the mutual exchange between member states of general information as well as information on individual cases. A number of safeguards are included concerning the protection of personal data.








In Article 2 of the Dublin Convention, member states of the European Union reaffirm their obligations under the 19.51 UN convention and the 1967 UN Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees, with no geographic restriction of the scope of these instruments, and restate their commitment to cooperate with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in applying them.








Schengen Agreement (1990)








Signed by the Benelux countries (Germany, France, Italy, Spain, and Portugal) but not ratified as of 1994, this agreement contains criteria similar to the Dublin Convention, within the context of the progressive abolition of frontier controls between countries of the European Union.






 












Page 152




The Schengen Agreement contains provisions establishing uniform principles for controlling member states' common borders and for harmonizing conditions of entry and visa requirements. In an effort to prevent unsuccessful applicants from lodging successive asylum claims in the same or other countries, the Schengen Agreement also includes a formula for determining which country is responsible for receiving an asylum request. Finally, the agreement specifies that a permanent information system, known as the Schengen Information System, is to be set up and computerized.








International Human Rights Instruments and Their Significance








There is a close link between the protection of refugees and the broader context of human rights. The link is confirmed, moreover, in the preamble to the 1951 UN Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, which makes reference to the principle that all human beings shall enjoy fundamental rights and freedoms without discrimination. The preamble also recalls that the United Nations has, on various occasions, manifested its profound concern for refugees and endeavored to assure refugees the widest possible exercise of these fundamental rights and freedoms. Therefore, a number of key human rights instruments must be added to the various legal texts of direct or indirect relevance to the protection of refugees. The major ones are as follows:








The Universal Declaration of Human Rights








Adopted and proclaimed by United Nations General Assembly Resolution 217 A(III) of 10 December 1948, this document stipulates:









1.



No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile. (Article 9)




2.



Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state; and every one has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country. (Article 13)




3.



Everyone has the right to seek and enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution. (Article 14)




4.








Everyone has the right to a nationality; and no one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality or denied the right to change his nationality. (Article 15)






 












Page 153




The United Nations has set international human rights standards in about 70 covenants, conventions, and treaties. The International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights are among the UN treaties that impose legally binding obligations on states concerning the rights of people under their jurisdiction. These two covenants were adopted by the UN General Assembly and opened for signature in December 1966. Both were entered into force in early 1976.








International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights








The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights states that:








1. Each State Party to the present Covenant undertakes to respect and to ensure to all individuals within its territory and subject to its jurisdiction the rights recognized in the present Covenant, without distinction of any kind, such as race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. (Article 2)








2. Everyone lawfully within the territory of a State shall, within that territory, have the right to liberty of movement and freedom to choose his residence; Everyone shall be free to leave any country, including his own; The above-mentioned rights shall not be subject to any restrictions except those which are provided by law, are necessary to protect national security, public order (order public) public health or morals or the rights and freedoms of others, and are consistent with the other rights recognized in the present Covenant; No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of the right to enter his own country. (Article 12)








3. An alien lawfully in the territory of a State Party to the present Covenant may be expelled therefrom only in pursuance of a decision reached in accordance with law and shall, except where compelling reasons of national security otherwise require, be allowed to submit the reasons against his expulsion and to have his case reviewed by, and be represented for the purpose before, the competent authority or a person or persons especially designated by the competent authority. (Article 13)








The Covenant against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment








This document, approved by consensus by the UN General Assembly on 10 December 1984 as Annex to UN General Assembly Resolution 39/46, states:






 












Page 154




No State Party shall expel, return (''refouler") or extradite a person to another State where there are substantial grounds for believing that he would be in danger of being subjected to torture. For the purpose of determining whether there are such grounds, the competent authorities shall take into account all relevant considerations including, where applicable, the existence in the State concerned of a consistent pattern of gross, flagrant or mass violations of human rights. (Article 3)








The United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women








Signed in 1979, this document contains a series of provisions for the benefit of women. It is considered to be a cornerstone for the protection of refugee women.








The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child








This document, approved in 1989, makes special provision for refugee children. It stipulates:








States Parties shall take appropriate measures to ensure that a child who is seeking refugee status or who is considered a refugee ... shall ... receive appropriate protection and humanitarian assistance ... " (Article 22)








The African Charter on Human and People's Rights








Adopted by the 18th Assembly of the Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) on 27 June 1981 at Nairobi, this charter states:








Every individual shall have the right, when persecuted, to seek and obtain asylum in other countries in accordance with the law of those countries and international conventions. (Article 12)








The American Convention on Human Rights








Signed on 22 November 1969 at the Inter-American Specialized Conference on Human Rights, held at San Jose, Costa Rica, this document states:








Every person has the right to leave any country freely, including his own; No one can be expelled from the territory of the state of which






 












Page 155




he is a national or be deprived of the right to enter it; Every person has the right to seek and granted asylum in a foreign territory, in accordance with the legislation of the state and international conventions, in the event he is being pursued for political offenses or related common crimes; In no case may an alien be deported or returned to a country, regardless of whether or not it is his country of origin, if in that country his right to life or personal freedom is in danger of being violated because of his race, nationality, religion, social status or political opinion. (Article 22)








The European Convention for Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms








This document, signed in Rome in 1950 and enhanced by several additional protocols, details certain rights that bear on refugees:








Liberty of movement and freedom to choose one's residence (Fourth Protocol, Article 2);








Freedom from exile and the right to enter the country of which one is a national (Fourth Protocol, Article 3);








Prohibition of the collective expulsion of aliens (Fourth Protocol, Article 4);








The right of an alien not to be expelled from a state without due process of law (Seventh Protocol, Article 1).








Recent Significant Developments








In recent years there have been several new developments in the international protection and assistance offered refugees and displaced persons. In particular, the international community has established two new mechanisms of relevance to refugees worldwide: (1) the creation within the United Nations of an emergency coordinator for humanitarian assistance and an under secretarygeneral for humanitarian assistance within the newly established Department of Humanitarian Affairs and (2) the appointment of a special representative of the UN secretary-general for internally displaced persons.








The office of emergency coordinator was created in December 1991 in order to strengthen and expedite international action in humanitarian emergencies, especially in cases where governments refuse to cooperate. The new office fills an important gap






 












Page 156 




by integrating the activities of the wide array of UN agencies and imposing a structural approach that will include long-term strategies to refugee problems where only short-term ad hoc humanitarian efforts now exist. The coordinator will facilitate the relief work of the different UN agencies, make contact with outside organizations, and negotiate access for such agencies in an emergency situation without waiting for a formal government request. UN General Assembly Resolution (46/182), which established the new mechanism, allows humanitarian aid to be provided with "the consent of the affected country" rather than at its request, as was the case in the past.








The emergency relief coordinator reports directly to the UN secretary-general and is mandated to coordinate all relief measures within the UN system and among other organizations. To support the coordinator, a central funding mechanism has been established at a cost of $50 million. The coordinator is also responsible for coordinating appeals for financial assistance for emergencies from donor governments. Finally, an Interagency Standing Committee coordinates the relief activities of all UN agencies (including UNHCR) and the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, and the Inter-Governmental Committee for Migration.








The special representative of the UN secretary-general for internally displaced persons has helped put the issue of protection and assistance to internally displaced persons on the international agenda. The position was created when the UN Human Rights Commission passed a resolution (1992/73) at its 48th session (5 March 1992) calling on the UN secretary-general to "designate a representative to seek to gain views and information from all governments on the human rights issues related to internally displaced persons, including an examination of existing international human rights, humanitarian and refugee law and standards and their applicability to protection of and relief assistance to internally displaced persons...."








The UN secretary-general subsequently appointed Francis Deng, a former Sudanese ambassador, as his special representative for the internally displaced. Ambassador Deng presented a comprehensive study of internally displaced persons to the 49th session of the UN Human Rights Commission in 1993. At this session, the UN Human Rights Commission passed a further resolution (1993/105) requesting "the Secretary-General to mandate his Representative for a period of two years to continue his work






 












Page 157




aimed at a better understanding of the general problems faced by internally displaced persons and their possible long-term solutions, with a view to identify, where required, ways and means for improved protection for and assistance to internally displaced persons."








Future Directions








Despite the impressive array of legal instruments and institutions directed to the protection and assistance of refugees and other forcibly displaced persons, increasing numbers of commentators and advocates view the international treaty regime that protects refugees as inadequate to ensure respect for the basic human rights of those forced to migrate. The need to strengthen refugee protection at the international level is pressing, particularly to address issues such as guaranteeing initial asylum to those in flight from persecution and violence, respecting the human rights of asylum-seekers, including the right to be free from arbitrary detention, and extending of refugee rights to those displaced within countries as a result of persecution and violence. Governments, acting through the United Nations and regional intergovernmental organizations, must not only expand the coverage of international law but also improve its enforcement. Until governments establish comprehensive international standards and meaningful mechanisms, many refugees and asylum-seekers will simply remain insecure and subject to human rights violations.






 












Page 159




5 Organizations and Government Agencies








THE FOLLOWING ARE SELECTED international, governmental, and private organizations providing information about or assistance and protection for refugees. It should be noted that most countries and states and even some larger cities have an agency, department, or commission concerned with refugees.








International Organizations








Centre for Documentation on Refugees (CDR) case postale 2500 
CH-1211 Geneva 2 Depot 
Switzerland 
(41-22) 739-8111 
Fax: (41-22) 739-8682 
E-mail: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.COMLINK.APC.ORG








A computer-based documentation center, CDR gathers, stores, and disseminates information on all aspects of refugee protection, reception, resettlement, and integration. It is part of UNHCR, but it also serves outside users. CDR also houses the coordinating unit of the International Refugee Documentation Network (IRDN) and maintains the International Refugee Electronic Network (IRENE) bulletin boards.








PUBLICATIONS: Refugee Abstracts (quarterly) and ad hoc bibliographies.






 












Page 160




European Council on Refugees and Exiles (ECRE) Bondway House, 3-9 Bondway 
London SW8 
England 
(44-71) 582-9928 General Secretary: Philip Rudge








ECRE is an international forum for 60 West European nongovernmental organizations that either assist refugees or are concerned with refugee and asylum policy. It monitors national and international developments, promotes legal and information networks, and advocates progressive standards for treatment of refugees and asylum-seekers. The European Legal Network on Asylum (ELENA), a forum for legal counselors, is a project of ECRE.








International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) 19 Avenue de la Paix 
CH-1202 Geneva 
Switzerland 
(41-22) 734-6001 
Fax: (41-22) 733-2057 
Telex: 414-226 President: Cornelio Sommaruga








In the United States: 
780 Third Avenue, 28th Floor 
New York, NY 10017 
(212) 371-0770 
Fax: (212) 838-5397








Founder of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, ICRC promotes international humanitarian law and has delegations in 47 countries. ICRC is an independent and neutral organization with an internationally recognized role of acting as a humanitarian intermediary between belligerents during armed conflicts. ICRC protects and assists victims of civil and international wars and victims of internal disturbances and tensions by providing medical aid and relief supplies; serves as a tracing and information agency for prisoners of war and missing persons; provides a service for transmitting family messages; and visits civilian internees, prisoners of war, and political detainees. The ICRC maintains observer status to the UN General Assembly.








International Council of Voluntary Agencies (ICVA) case postale 216 
CH-1211 Geneva 21 
Switzerland 
(41-22) 732-6600 
Fax: (41-22) 738-9904






 












Page 161




Cable: VOLAG (Geneva) 
Telex: 412-586 ICVA-CH Executive Director: Delmar Blasco








Founded in 1962 to provide a forum for voluntary agencies active in the fields of humanitarian assistance and development cooperation, the ICVA currently has 87 members comprising international, national, and regional voluntary agencies.








International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies 17 Chemin des Crets 
case postale 372 
CH-1211 Geneva 19 
Switzerland 
(41-22) 734-5580 
Fax: (41-22) 733-0395 
Telex: 22555 LRCS-CH Secretary-General: Par Stenback








This is the international federation of 149 National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. It contributes to the humanitarian activities of its member societies, coordinates relief operations for natural disaster victims, cares for refugees outside areas of conflict, and aims to promote peace in the world. In refugee situations, the secretariat mobilizes the federation's own financial and in-kind contributions, as well as its health and managerial staff, to supplement resources of the UNHCR and national Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.








International Organization for Migration (IOM, formerly ICM) 17 route des Morillons 
case postale 71 
CH-1211 Geneva 19 
Switzerland 
(41-22) 717-9111 
Fax: (41-22) 798-6150 Director General: James N. Purcell, Jr.








Representatives: 
New York-Richard Scott 
1123 Broadway, Room 717 
New York, NY 10010 
(212) 463-8422








California-James Gildea 
The Adam Grant Building, Suite 1225 
114 Sansome Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
(415) 391-9796






 












Page 162 




Washington-Hans Petter Boe 
1750 K Street, NW, Suite 1110 
Washington, DC 20006 
(202) 862-1826








Chicago-Pannee Peiffer 
O'Hare Corporate Tower 1, Suite 329 
10400 West Higging Road 
Rosemont, IL 60018 
(708) 296-3583








Miami-Ada Peralte 
4471 N.W. 36th Street, Suite 236 
Miami Springs, FL 33166 
(305) 885-5426








IOM was established in 1951 to arrange resettlement processing and transportation for refugees and migrants. The organization conducts related programs for medical screenings, language training, and cultural orientation. IOM also plans and implements programs for the transfer of specialized human resources through migration to developing countries. Represented in 55 countries worldwide, IOM undertakes research projects and organizes biennial international seminars on major migration themes.








Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees 
(UNHCR) case postale 2500 
CH-1200 Geneva 2 Depot 
Switzerland 
(41-22) 739-8111 High Commissioner: Sadako Ogata








UNHCR Liaison Office to the United Nations Headquarters 
UN Plaza 
New York, NY 10017 
(212) 963-6200








UNHCR Branch Office for the United States 
1718 Connecticut Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC 20009 
(202) 387-8546 Representative: Rene van Rooyen








The UNHCR was established in 1951 to provide international protection to refugees who fall within the scope of its statute and to seek durable solutions for the problems of refugees. It also coordinates assistance programs for displaced persons in accordance with various subse-






 












Page 163




quent General Assembly resolutions. It has representation in over 100 countries.








United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) 3 UN Plaza 
New York, NY 10017 
(212) 326-7000 
Fax: (212) 888-7465 Executive Director: James Grant








Since 1946, UNICEF has cooperated with developing countries in providing child assistance programs involving nutrition, primary health care, water and sanitation, and education. It provides emergency humanitarian assistance to victims of natural and man-made disasters.








United Nations Department of Humanitarian Affairs (DHA) Palais des Nations 
CH-1211 Geneva 10 
Switzerland 
(41-22) 917-2142 
Fax: (41-22) 917-0023 
Telex: 4142DHA








UN Headquarters 
UN Plaza 
New York, NY 10017 
(212) 963-1392 
Fax: (212) 963-9489 or (212) 963-1312








Created in 1992, this UN department is the center for facilitating action on emergencies by coordinating UN action, fielding assessment missions, issuing appeals for the funding of humanitarian relief programs, publishing situation reports, and monitoring the status of donor contributions. It administers the Central Emergency Revolving Fund, which is used to facilitate rapid humanitarian action in emergency situations. It incorporates the previous office of the UN Disaster Relief Coordinator and the secretariat of the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction.








United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) Vienna International Centre 
P.O. Box 700, A-1400 
Vienna, Austria 
(43-1) 21131, Ext. 4530 Commissioner-General: Ilter Turkmen






 












Page 164 




New York Liaison Office: 
UN Building, Room DC2-0550 
New York, NY 10017 
(212) 963-2255 Director: William Lee








Since 1950, UNRWA has provided assistance to registered Palestinian refugees, now numbering more than 2 million, in Lebanon, Jordan, Syria, and the occupied territories of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. It offers basic health and relief services to eligible refugees, education to children, and vocational and teacher training. It also provides emergency relief services to Palestinian refugees displaced by war and violence, as it has been doing continuously since 1975 in Lebanon. UNRWA has provided additional emergency aid to refugees in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, where the Palestinian uprising broke out in December 1987.








World Council of Churches, Refugee and Migration Service case postale 2100 
CH-1211 Geneva 2 
Switzerland 
(41-22) 791-6111 
Fax: (41-22) 791-0361 
Telex: 415 730 OIK CH Coordinator: Melaku Kifle








This organization works with local churches in about 70 countries in support of their refugee service, including both emergency and longterm assistance. Also, in cooperation with local churches, it advocates on behalf of refugees, provides resettlement services, provides public information and training, and facilitates meetings between churches on refugee issues.








World Food Program (WFP) Via Cristoforo Colombo 426 
00145 Rome, Italy 
(39-6) 522-821 
Fax: (39-6) 512-3700 
Telex: (39-6) 626675 WFP1 Executive Director: Catherine Bertini








Liaison Office at United Nations Headquarters 
(212) 963-8364 
Fax: (212) 963-8019






 












Page 165




The food aid arm of the United Nations system, with offices in 80 developing countries, WFP provides both long-term development assistance and emergency aid. A major share of the program's resources is channeled to protracted and emergency feeding operations for refugees and displaced persons, done in close cooperation with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. WFP coordinates food aid deliveries and assists bilateral donors with procurement and transport of food, and it helps developing countries with logistics problems in food emergency situations.








U.S. Government Organizations








Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC) 1600 Clifton Road, NE 
Atlanta, GA 30333 
(404) 639-2101 
Fax: (404) 639-0277 Associate Director for International Health: Joe H. Davis, M.D.








CDC provides technical assistance in refugee health to U.S. government agencies, multilateral organizations, nongovernmental organizations, and other agencies involved in refugee care. This technical assistance includes rapid needs assessment in health and nutrition, epidemiologic evaluation, disease outbreak investigation and control, and the establishment of disease surveillance systems in refugee populations. CDC also conducts training in refugee health.








Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) Administration for Children and Families 
370 L'Enfant Promenade SW, 6th Floor 
Washington, DC 20447 
(202) 401-9246 Director: Lavinia Limon








The ORR assists refugees in achieving economic self-sufficiency following their arrival in the United States. Assistance is primarily provided through state-administered resettlement programs. The office reimburses states for some costs incurred in providing cash and medical assistance to newly arrived refugees in need. It also provides social service grants to states primarily for making English language and employment training services available to refugees.






 












Page 166 




Department of Justice, Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) 425 I Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20536 
(202) 514-2000 Commissioner: Doris Meissner








The INS administers immigration and naturalization laws relating to the admission, exclusion, deportation, and naturalization of aliens, including refugees and asylees.








Department of State, Bureau for Refugee Programs (BRP)2201 C Street, NW, Room 5824 
Washington, DC 20520 
(202) 647-5822 Director: Phyllis Oakley








The BRP formulates, implements, and directs U.S. refugee and migration policies and programs. The basic mission comprises international refugee protection and assistance as well as management of the U.S. admissions program.








House Judiciary Committee 2138 Rayburn House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515 
(202) 225-3951 Chairman: Jack Brooks








Subcommittee on International Law, Immigration, and Refugees Chairman: Romano L. Mazzoli








The House Judiciary Committee studies and makes recommendations on immigration and naturalization, citizenship, admission of refugees, treaties and international agreements, and other appropriate matters.








Senate Judiciary Committee 224 Dirksen Senate Office Building 
Washington, DC 20510 
(202) 224-5225 Chairman: Joseph Biden








Subcommittee on Immigration and Refugee Policy 
518 Dirksen Senate Office Building 
Washington, DC 20510 
(202) 224-7878 Chairman: Edward M. Kennedy








The Senate Judiciary Committee studies and makes recommendations on the problems of refugees and has jurisdiction over immigration and naturalization legislation.






 












Page 167




U.S. Resettlement Agencies








The following are selected, private, voluntary agencies in the United States that participate in programs to resettle refugees.








American Council for Nationalities Service (ACNS) 95 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
(212) 532-5858 Executive Director: Roger Winter








ACNS is a nonsectarian organization with a 74-year history of service to refugees, immigrants, and others in migration. Forty community-based affiliates located throughout the United States provide refugee resettlement, immigration counseling, and other supportive services meant to ease the burden of transition for both newcomers and the communities receiving them. Agencies provide asylum representation and advocate on behalf of the rights of immigrants and refugees. International Social Service/American Branch, providing intercountry casework services to families and children around the world, is an ACNS program. The U.S. Committee for Refugees is the public information arm of ACNS.








Church World Service/Immigration and Refugee Program 475 Riverside Drive 
New York, NY 10115 
(212) 870-3300 
Fax: (212) 870-2132 Director: Dr. Elizabeth G. Ferris








A part of the National Council of Churches, the Church World Service, through its Immigration and Refugee Program, provides refugee resettlement and first asylum services in the United States and responds to human need around the world. It works with ecumenical agencies worldwide, including the World Council of Churches.








Episcopal Migration Ministries 815 Second Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
(212) 922-5198 Senior Program Executive Director: Diane Porter








Formerly the Presiding Bishop's Fund for World Relief/Refugee Migration Affairs, the Episcopal Migration Ministries is the official channel through which the Episcopal Church responds to relief and development needs of refugees, migrants, displaced persons, and asylum-seekers






 












Page 168




globally. It resettles refugees and assists immigrants and asylum-seekers in the United States through 98 Episcopal dioceses. It assists refugees worldwide in concert with the Anglican Communion and partner agencies, in cooperation with the Presiding Bishop's Fund for World Relief. It also advocates for legislation to respond to the protection and resettlement needs of refugees and displaced persons.








Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, Inc. (HIAS) 333 Seventh Avenue 
New York, NY 10001-5004 
(212) 674-6800 Executive Vice President: Martin A. Wenick








HIAS is the refugee and migration agency of the organized American Jewish community. It assists Jewish refugees and migrants from Eastern Europe, the Middle East, North Africa, and elsewhere. HIAS also assists Indochinese, Ethiopian, Afghan, and other non-Jewish refugees through programs in cooperation with the U.S. government. It has a global network of offices and affiliated organizations in 45 countries on six continents.








International Rescue Committee (IRC) 122 East 42nd Street, 12th Floor 
New York, NY 10168-1289 
(212) 551-3000 President: Robert P. DeVecchi








The IRC, a nonsectarian voluntary agency, was founded in 1933. It provides resettlement services to refugees from Indochina, the former Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, Central America, Afghanistan, Iran, Ethiopia, and other countries. It maintains a domestic resettlement network of 16 offices as well as 5 European offices. Overseas, it provides emergency relief and assistance to refugees and internally displaced victims of civil strife and conflict. Its services include medical aid, public health, education, and other related forms of assistance. International Rescue Committee programs are presently operating in Thailand, Pakistan, Jordan, Sudan, Malawi, Costa Rica, and El Salvador.








Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service (LIRS) 390 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10016-8803 
(212) 532-6350 Executive Director: Ralston Deffenbaugh, Jr.








The LIRS is the national agency of Lutheran churches in the United States for ministry with refugees, asylum-seekers, undocumented per-






 












Page 169




sons, and immigrants. Founded in 1939 to resettle World War II refugees, it now serves in advocacy for protection and humane treatment for uprooted people worldwide as well as in immigration services and resettlement. It works through 26 regional affiliate social service agency offices that support the direct assistance of church and community volunteers. It has 19 partner agencies to help unaccompanied minor children, is involved in more than 40 ecumenical community-based projects to help asylum-seekers, and provides immigration training to assist service providers.








Tolstoy Foundation, Inc. 200 Park Avenue South, Suite 1612 
New York, NY 10003 
(212) 677-7770 Executive Director: Alexis Troubetzkoy








The Tolstoy Foundation was originally founded in 1939 to assist Russian refugees, but its scope has broadened to provide services to refugees from Eastern Europe, the Near East, Southeast Asia, and Africa. Oppressed minorities such as Tibetans, Circassians, and Armenians have also received assistance from the Tolstoy Foundation. European headquarters in Munich and South American headquarters in Buenos Aires oversee offices in these regions. Six regional offices in the United States provide resettlement services.








United States Catholic Conference Migration and Refugee Services (USCC/MRS) 3211 Fourth Street, NE 
Washington, DC 20017-1194 
(202) 541-3315 
Fax: (202) 541-3245 Executive Director: Rev. Richard Ryscavage, S. J.








One of the public policy and social action agencies of the United States Catholic Conference, MRS carries out church policy on migration, refugee, and immigration issues. It provides program support and regional coordination for a network of more than 140 diocesan refugee resettlement offices. The network was able to resettle over 27,000 refugees of all faiths in 1992 alone. Within MRS, the Office for the Pastoral Care of Migrants and Refugees provides the pastoral foundation for all of MRS's programs and assists bishops in encouraging the integration of immigrants, migrants, and refugees into the life and mission of the local church. MRS also advocates generous immigration, asylum, refugee admission, and assistance policies. The Catholic Legal Immigration Network, Inc. (CLINIC) was established in 1988 to ensure that all newcomers have access to affordable immigration related






 












Page 170 




services. CLINIC supports the diocesan network with technical assistance, consultation services, and a national immigration support network.








World Relief of the National Association of Evangelicals 201 Route 9W North 
Congers, NY 10920 
(914) 268-4135 Director of United States Ministries: Donald N. Hammond








World Relief of the National Association of Evangelicals has programs both overseas and in the United States. Overseas, it provides relief and development assistance in countries of first asylum. Domestically, it provides resettlement services to refugees, aiding more than 10,000 individuals in 1992 alone. It also provides orientation and training to sponsoring churches, community groups, families, and individuals to assist the evangelical community to meet the needs of refugees. World Relief has a network of 29 offices throughout the United States.








Aid and Information Organizations








The following are selected U.S. and international voluntary agencies and human rights and educational organizations that provide assistance to or information about refugees.








Africare, Inc. 440 R Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20001 
(202) 462-3614 Executive Director: C. Payne Lucas








Africare is dedicated to improving the quality of life in rural Africa through the development of water resources, increased food production, health services, and refugee assistance. It currently operates more than 220 programs in Eastern, Southern, and Francophone Africa, along with many development education programs in the United States.








Alien Rights Law Project (ARLP) Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights under Law 
1400 I Street, NW, Suite 450 
Washington, DC 20005 
(202) 682-5900 Acting Director: Deborah Sanders








Started in 1978 by the Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights under Law, the ARLP provides legal assistance to aliens. Its focus is on






 












Page 171




asylum and refugee issues, as well as those cases where aliens suffer employment or housing discrimination due to their immigration status.








American Friends Service Committee (AFSC) 1501 Cherry Street 
Philadelphia, PA 19102 
(215) 241-7000 
Fax: (215) 241-7026 Executive Director: Kara Newell








A Quaker organization founded in 1917, AFSC supports reconciliation and development worldwide, especially in situations of conflict. It provides relief and rehabilitation assistance to refugees in the context of community development and advocates for resolution of conflicts and refugee rights in the United States.








American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, Inc.(JDC) 711 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
(212) 687-6200 Executive Vice President: Michael Schneider








Established in 1914 and funded predominantly by the campaigns of the United Jewish Appeal (UJA), the JDC serves as the overseas arm of the organized American Jewish community, providing for rescue, relief, and rehabilitation of Jewish communities around the world. Its current programs, operating in 35 countries, deal with Soviet Jewish emigres, Israel's social needs, glasnost-facilitated expansions in Eastern Europe and the former USSR, and nonsectarian development and disaster relief worldwide.








American Jewish Philanthropic Fund c/o Tanenbaum 
27 East 61st Street 
New York, NY 10021 
(212) 755-5640 President: CharlesJ. Tanenbaum








The American Jewish Philanthropic Fund provides relief, resettlement, and retraining services toJewish refugees in Europe and the United States through programs administered by the International Rescue Committee.








American Red Cross 17th & D Streets, NW 
Washington, DC 20006 
(202) 639-3306 Chairman: George F. Moody






 












Page 172




International Social Services Division Director: Mary-Lou McCutcheon (202) 639-3308








American Red Cross works in cooperation with the 149 Red Cross/Red Crescent societies, the International Committee of the Red Cross, and the Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. It assists refugees in locating missing family members through its Tracing Services. Other Red Cross programs include disaster preparedness and relief and the strengthening of programs of other national Red Cross/Red Crescent societies.








American Refugee Committee (ARC) Headquarters: 
2344 Nicollet Avenue, Room 350 
Minneapolis, MN 55404 
(612) 872-7060








Chicago Office: 
317 Howard Street 
Evanston, IL 60202 President and CEO: Anthony J. Kozlowski








Internationally, ARC provides medical volunteers for refugee camps in Thailand and in Malawi (Africa), where it provides direct care, medical training, and child survival programs for Indochinese and Mozambican refugees. In 1991, it initiated program activities in Cambodia. The Illinois program focuses on public/mental health training and English language/ citizenship training. The Minnesota program uses volunteer American mentors with traditional education experiences to move refugee youth, women, and elders toward self-reliance.








Amnesty International (AI) International Secretariat 
1 Easton Street 
London WCIX 8DJ 
England Secretary General: Pierre Sane








U.S. Section: 
322 Eighth Avenue 
New York, NY 10001 Executive Director: William F. Schulz








Address requests for assistance to: 
National Refugee Office 
500 Sansome Street, Suite 615 
San Francisco, CA 94111 
(415) 291-0601 
Fax: (415) 291-8722






 












Page 173




Amnesty International is a human rights organization working for the release of prisoners of conscience, for fair and prompt trials for all political prisoners, and to abolish torture and executions worldwide. It provides information for political asylum applications and opposes refoulement of persons who might reasonably be expected to be tortured, killed, or incarcerated as prisoners of conscience.








PUBLICATIONS: Amnesty International publishes an annual report, newsletter, and country and special reports on worldwide human rights conditions.








Armenian Assembly of America 122 C Street, NW, Suite 350 
Washington, DC 20001 
(202) 393-3434 
Fax: (202) 638-4904 Executive Director: Ross Vartian








Through the Armenian Refugee Coordinating Committee (ARCC), the Armenian Assembly of America advocates a humane and appropriate response to the plight of Armenian refugees, provides direct assistance, and serves as a resource for the public and private sectors and media for information about Armenian refugees and emigres. In 1988, the Armenian Assembly of America operated direct assistance programs in Belgium, Greece, and Pakistan.








Boat People S.O.S., Inc. P.O. Box 2652 
Merrifield, VA 22116 
(703) 204-2662 
Fax: (703) 204-2662 Executive Director: Dr. Thang Dinh Nguyen 
Chairperson: Mr. Nguyen Ngoc Bich








The mission of the Boat People S.O.S. is to help Vietnamese refugees in refugee camps or on the open sea. It has offices throughout the United States and branches in Canada, Australia, Japan, and Europe.








CARE 151 Ellis Street, NE 
Atlanta, GA 30303 
(404) 681-2552 President: Dr. PhilipJohnston








CARE, an international aid and self-help development organization, responds to the needs of refugees and displaced persons in emergency situations through effective delivery systems facilitating food distribution and other aid. It also implements long-term development programs






 












Page 174 




in health and nutrition education and natural resource management to improve living conditions and to facilitate self-sufficiency among refugees, displaced persons, and repatriates. It has refugee programs in Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, and Thailand, and programs for the displaced in Chad, Mali, Niger, Sudan, Ethiopia, and Mozambique.








Catholic Relief Services (CRS) 209 West Fayette Street 
Baltimore, MD 21201-3443 
(410) 625-2220 
Fax: (410) 685-1635 Executive Director: Kenneth E. Hackett








CRS is the overseas relief and development agency of the U.S. Catholic community. Active in over 70 countries with nutrition programs, water and agricultural projects, small enterprise development and community promotion, its major refugee foci are Africa and Central America. Its refugee and resettlement assistance in 1989 was valued at $15 million6 percent of the CRS program expenditure.








Center for Applied Linguistics 1118 22nd Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20037 
(202) 429-9292 President: G. Richard Tucker








The Center for Applied Linguistics operates the Refugee Service Center in Washington, D.C., under a cooperative agreement with the U.S. Department of State. It acts as a liaison between the State Departmentfunded Overseas Refugee Training Program sites in Southeast Asia and educators, social service providers, and others assisting refugees in the United States. It produces resettlement guides for newly arrived refugees; conducts surveys to gather information on refugees' resettlement experiences; gives presentations and workshops in the United States, at resettlement sites and professional conferences; and publishes information for staff in the Overseas Refugee Training Program.








Center for Migration Studies (CMS) 209 Flagg Place 
Staten Island, NY 10304-1199 
(718) 351-8800 
Fax: (718) 667-4598 Executive Director: Lydio F. Tomasi








Founded in 1964, CMS encourages the interdisciplinary study of human migration and refugee movements everywhere through scientific research projects. It operates a specialized library and archives on migration and refugees. The CMS Annual National Legal Conference on Immigration and Refugee Policy is held in Washington, D.C.






 












Page 175




PUBLICATIONS: CMS publishes the quarterly International Migration Review and the bimonthly Migration World Magazine, as well as books, papers, and a newsletter.








Cultural Survival, Inc. 215 First Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
(617) 621-3818 
Fax: (617) 621-3814 Executive Director: Alexander H. See








Cultural Survival provides research and analysis concerning the survival of indigenous peoples and ethnic groups. It examines ethnic persecution as a cause of refugee flows and is involved in maintaining the land and the health care necessary for the survival of threatened groups.








Direct Relief International 27 La Patera Lane 
P.O. Box 30820 
Santa Barbara, CA 93130 
(805) 964-4767 President: Ann W. Carlos








Direct Relief International receives and donates contributions of pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, and equipment to assist needy health facilities in medically less-developed areas of the world, and it also assists refugees and other victims of natural disaster and civil strife.








Documentation Exchange, Refugee Legal Support Service (RLSS) Box 2327 
Austin, Texas 78768 
(512) 476-9841 Director: Jill McRae








Established in 1983, RLSS provides political asylum documentation for refugees from all Central American countries. Information is obtained from an extensive human rights database of computer-indexed U.S., Central American, and international human rights reports, news clipping services, and church and government reports. Referrals are made to direct service organizations and to attorneys with comparable cases.








Eritrean Relief Committee, Inc. 1325 15th Street, NW, Suite 112 
Washington, DC 20005 
(202) 387-5001 
Fax: (202) 387-5006 Executive Director: Dr. Amdetsion Kidane








Founded in 1976, the Eritrean Relief Committee aids Eritreans affected by war, drought, and famine, including people displaced internally and






 












Page 176




agency of the indigenous Eritrean Relief and Rehabilitation Association (ERRA), which focuses on self-help and grassroots initiatives. Emergency assistance includes food, medicine, shelter, and pest control. Development support includes an agricultural rehabilitation program, rural healthcare facilities, and vocational and academic education projects.








Ethiopian Community Development Council, Inc. 1038 South Highland Street 
Arlington, VA 22204 
(703) 685-0510 
Fax: (703) 685-0529 Director: Tsehaye Teferra








A private, nonprofit organization established in 1983, the Ethiopian Community Development Council administers a refugee resettlement program and engages in programs that promote the economic, educational, and social development of the Ethiopian community in the United States. It provides Ethiopians and other refugees with the means to gain the knowledge and skills necessary to become self-sufficient, and it disseminates information concerning Ethiopia and the Ethiopian community in the United States.








Exodus World Service P.O. Box 620 
Itasca, IL 60143-0620 
(708) 775-1500 or (312) REFUGEE 
Fax: (708) 775-1505 Executive Director: Heidi Moll Schoedel








Exodus World Service is an international humanitarian agency that provides educational services to individuals and churches to heighten their knowledge and awareness of refugees. It also works through media and volunteer networks to gain material and service assistance from the private sector for refugee families resettling in the United States.








Georgetown University Center for Immigration Policy and Refugee 
Assistance (CIPRA) P.O. Box 2298 
Georgetown University 
Washington, DC 20057 
(202) 298-0200 Director: Fr. Julio Giulietti, S.J.








CIPRA provides research, training, and consultation to contribute to the development of humane, reasonable, and enforceable immigration and refugee policies. It sponsors lectures, seminars, and public meetings on






 












Page 177




refugee policy and administers educational programs offering internships in refugee assistance. Its tutorial programs offer community service to refugees, immigrants, and at-risk youth. CIPRA also conducts research on migration in the Americas and on U.S. immigration legislation and its effects.








Grassroots International P.O. Box 312 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
(617) 497-9180








Grassroots International provides humanitarian assistance to Third World peoples and social movements as a basis for building awareness and activism among North Americans in support of equity, justice, and peace. It sends funds and material aid to local partner organizations linked to broad-based movements for change in crisis areas-currently South Africa, the Philippines, the Horn of Africa, and the Middle East. All projects supported by Grassroots International are communitybased, with emphasis on community organizing and empowerment.








Holt International Children's Services, Inc. 1195 City View, Box 2880 
Eugene, OR 97402 
(503) 687-2202 Executive Director: David H. Kim








An international child-caring agency serving children in Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, India, and Latin America, Holt International Children's Services works with affiliate agencies in providing a wide range of services to homeless children.








Human Rights Internet c/o Human Rights Centre 
University of Ottawa 
57 Louis Pasteur 
Ottawa, Ontario K1N 6N5 
Canada 
(613) 564-3492 
Fax: (613) 564-4054 Executive Director: Laurie S. Wiseberg








Human Rights Internet is an international communications network and clearinghouse that serves the information needs of the human rights community: scholars, activists, and policymakers concerned with the promotion and protection of internationally recognized human rights. PUBLICATIONS: Human Rights Internet publishes Human Rights Internet Reporter, a comprehensive reference work on humanitarian activity






 












Page 178 




worldwide. It also publishes directories describing the work of worldwide human rights organizations.








Human Rights Watch 485 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
(212) 972-8400 
Fax: (212) 972-0905 Executive Director: Kenneth Roth








Washington Office: 
1522 K Street, NW 
(202) 371-6592 
Washington, DC 20005 Director: Holly Burkhalter








Human Rights Watch is a U.S. human rights organization that monitors the human rights practices of governments. It is composed of five regional divisions-Africa Watch, America Watch, Asia Watch, Helsinki Watch, and Middle East Watch-plus the Fund for Free Expression.








Institute for Education and Advocacy 1403 Harmon Place 
Minneapolis, MN 55403 
(612) 341-8082








St. Paul Office: 
1550 Summit Avenue 
St. Paul, MN 55105 
(612) 698-8509








The Institute for Education and Advocacy builds the capacity of refugees and immigrants to participate actively in the social, economic, and political life of Minnesota. It operates a network of education and self-reliance programs under the auspices of the Episcopal Diocese of Minnesota.








InterAction (American Council for Voluntary International Action) 1717 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 8th Floor 
Washington, DC 20036 
(202) 667-8227 President and CEO: Julia Taft 
Program Officer, Refugee Affairs: Timothy M. McCully








InterAction is a broadly based membership association of 120 U.S. private and voluntary organizations working in international development; humanitarian and emergency relief; refugee relief, assistance, and resettlement; public policy and federal relations; and development educa-






 












Page 179




tion. Member agencies participate in any or all of six working committees: Development Assistance, Migration and Refugee Affairs, Disaster Response and Resources, Public Policy, Development Education, and Private Funding.








International Alert 1 Glyn Street 
London SE11 5HT 
England 
(44-71) 793-8383 Secretary-General: Kumar Rupesinghe








International Alert is an independent, international, nongovernmental organization established in 1985 by Martin Ennals. Its objectives are: to help bring peace in internal conflicts; to seek and to propose constitutional provisions that protect and respect ethnic, religious, linguistic, and other minorities; to promote the human rights and development of groups and individuals within national borders and internationally; to alert opinion to danger areas of actual and potential conflict, mass killings, and genocide; and to provide opportunities for dialogue and discussion with a view to ending ethnic conflicts.








PUBLICATIONS: International Alert puts out a publication entitled Update.








International Catholic Migration Commission (ICMC) 37-39 rue de Vermont 
case postale 96 
CH-1211 Geneva 20 CIC 
Switzerland 
(41-22) 733-4150 Secretary General: Dr. Andre Van Chau 
President: Mr. Michael Whiteley








U.S. Address: 
1319 F Street, NW, Suite 820 
Washington, DC 20004








ICMC links Catholic assistance agencies in both first-asylum and refugee resettlement countries, providing logistical and sometimes financial support for their emigration processing activities. Since 1951, it has administered a series of travel loan funds for refugees and migrants. It acts as Joint Voluntary Agency Representative in six countries and administers the U.S. component of the Orderly Departure Program. ICMC also promotes local settlement activities through project assistance and training of refugee officers.






 












Page 180 




International Social Service American Branch: 
95 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
(212) 532-5858 Executive Director: Wells C. Klein 
Director: Marie Mercer








Established in 1924, International Social Service is a liaison between social agencies in the United States and agencies abroad. It is designed to resolve, on a case-by-case basis, problems that derive from international migration and the separation of families by national boundaries. Its special emphasis is on services and protection for children in migration, intercountry adoption planning, and family reunification, including refugee families. The General Secretariat of International Social Service is based in Geneva. Since 1983, it has been affiliated with the American Council for Nationalities Service.








Jesuit Refugee Service (JRS) 1424 16th Street, NW, Suite 300 
Washington, DC 20036 
(202) 462-5200 Director: Rev. Robert W McChesney, S.J.








Founded in 1981 under the auspices of the Society of Jesus, JRS is the central coordinating office in the United States for the International Jesuit Refugee Service, which operates programs for refugees and internally displaced persons in over 25 countries in Asia, Africa, Central and North America, Europe, and Australia. Its major program foci include pastoral care, legal assistance, research, health, education, and human rights protection.








Lawyers Committee for Human Rights (LCHR) 330 Seventh Avenue, 10th Floor 
New York, NY 10001 
(212) 629-6170 Executive Director: Michael Posner 
Director, Asylum Representation Program: Stephanie Marks








Washington Office: 
100 Maryland Avenue, Room 502 
Washington, DC 20002 
(202) 547-5692 Staff Attorney: Elisa Massimino








The Lawyers Committee for Human Rights is a public interest law center in the fields of international human rights and refugee law. It monitors






 












Page 181




human rights in countries around the world, including those receiving U.S. foreign aid. It works to ensure that persons seeking refuge in the United States receive the protections they are guaranteed under the U.S. Constitution and international law. Legal representation is provided by volunteer attorneys for individual asylum applicants who cannot afford counsel.








Lutheran World Relief 390 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10016 
(212) 532-6350 Executive Director: Katherine F. Wolford








Lutheran World Relief serves as the overseas development and relief agency to assist with long-term and emergency help for people around the world, especially in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Refugee assistance is often channelled through programs of the Lutheran World Federation.








Mennonite Central Committee 21 South 12th Street 
Akron, PA 17501 
(717) 859-1151








Canada Office: 
134 Plaza Drive 
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3T 5K9 
Canada 
(204) 261-6381 Executive Secretary: John A. Lapp








The Mennonite Central Committee is a cooperative relief and service agency for Mennonites and Brethren in Christ in North America. It provides material aid and development assistance to refugees from manmade and natural disasters. Its current work includes assistance to refugees in the Horn of Africa, Central America, Southeast Asia, and the Middle East.








Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights 200 Second Avenue South 
Suite 1050 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55401 Director: Barbara Frey








Formerly known as the Minnesota Lawyers International Human Rights Committee, this organization undertakes studies and advocacy on international human rights and refugee issues.






 












Page 182 




PUBLICATION: Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights publishes Human Rights Observer.








Minority Rights Group 379 Brixton Road 
London SW9 7DE 
England 
(44-71) 978-9498 
Fax: (44-71) 738-6265








An independent, international human rights information and education body, Minority Rights Group provides written material on the subject and carries out advocacy on minority rights at the United Nations and other international fora. It has sister groups outside the United Kingdom.








PUBLICATIONS: Minority Rights Group publishes reports on minority groups worldwide and thematic reports on issues concerning minorities and human rights.








National Coalition for Haitian Refugees (NCHR) 16 East 42nd Street, 3rd Floor 
New York, NY 10017 
(212) 867-0020 
Fax: (212) 867-1668 Executive Director: Mr. Jocelyn McCalla








Established in 1982, the NCHR is an alliance of nearly 40 prominent U.S. civil rights, labor, human rights, religious, and immigrants' rights organizations. NCHR acts in accord with both U.S. and international law to uphold the rights of refugees fleeing repression in Haiti and traveling to the United States. It advocates for Haitian refugees by facilitating cooperation among various agencies providing humanitarian service, and also by promoting democratic institution-building in Haiti.








National Immigration Refugee, and Citizenship Forum 220 I Street, NE, Suite 220 
Washington, DC 20002 
(202) 544-0004 Director: Frank Sharry








A national, nonprofit, educational organization with a broad multiinstitutional and multiethnic membership, the National Immigration, Refugee, and Citizenship Forum was formed to establish positive working relationships among the diverse communities represented by its membership and to promote the pro-immigrant, pro-refugee philosophy embodied in its statement of principles.






 












Page 183




Operation USA 8320 Melrose Avenue, #200 
Los Angeles, CA 90069 
(213) 658-8876 
Fax: (213) 653-7846 
Telex: 295252 OPCAUR President: Richard Walden








Operation USA is a nonprofit organization founded in 1979. Its objectives are to collect and transport high-priority emergency relief supplies to areas of need. It has been active in Somalia, Ethiopia, Sudan, Tibet, Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, the Philippines, Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Ecuador, Mexico, Lebanon, Poland, and the United States.








Oxfam America 26 West Street 
Boston, MA 02111-1206 
(617) 482-1211 Executive Director: Dr. John Hammock








Oxfam America is a nonprofit, international agency that funds self-help development and disaster relief projects in poor countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Caribbean. Founded in 1970, Oxfam America is one of seven autonomous Oxfam organizations worldwide. PUBLICATIONS: Oxfam America publishes and distributes educational materials on issues of hunger and development.








Rav Tov, Inc. International Jewish Rescue Organization 
500 Bedford Avenue 
Brooklyn, NY 11211 
(718) 963-1991 Executive Director: David Niederman








Through its network of overseas offices, Rav Tov provides care and maintenance, medical assistance, visa documentation, and premigration planning to refugees while in transit. In countries of resettlement, it provides a full range of services, including reception, housing, medical care, language training, education, employment counseling, and maintenance assistance.








Refugee Policy Group (RPG) 1424 16th Street, NW, Suite 401 
Washington, DC 20036 
(202) 387-3015 Executive Director: Dennis Gallagher






 












Page 184 




RPG serves as an independent center of policy analysis and research on domestic and international refugee issues. It houses a refugee resource library and contributes to policy analysis, research, and program development in the refugee field.








Refugee Studies Programme (RSP) Oxford University 
Queen Elizabeth House 
21 St. Giles 
Oxford OX1 3LA 
(44-865) 270-722 
Fax: (44-865) 270-721 
E-mail: RSP@VAX.OXFORD.AC.UK Director: Dr. Barbara Harrell-Bond








The RSP is a center for multidisciplinary research, teaching, and training of practitioners in the field of involuntary migration. In addition to disseminating public information, RSP conducts weekly seminars and annual international symposia to provide a forum for dialogue between academics, refugees, host government officials, and agency workers.








PUBLICATIONS: RSP's publications include Directory of Current Research on Refugee and Other Forced Migrants, the Journal of Refugee Studies, Refugee Participation Network, and Displaced People and Refugees: A Resource Guide.








Refugee Voices, Inc. 3041 4th Street, NE 
Washington, DC 20017-1102 
(202) 832-0020 or (800) 688-REFUGEE 
Fax: (202) 832-5616 Director: Frank Moan, S.J.








Refugee Voices is a public education organization that, through various media, works to inform Americans of the plight of refugees in the United States and those in camps worldwide.








Refugee Women in Development (RefWID) 810 First Street, NE, Suite 300 
Washington, DC 20002 
(202) 289-1104 
Fax: (202) 887-0812 Executive Director: Sima Wali








RefWID is the only national organization established to address the needs and concerns of Third World refugee women who have settled in






 












Page 185




the United States. Its priorities include conducting training on the protection needs of refugee women, particularly in regard to domestic violence; developing practical program models for leadership development and coalition building; and carrying out education and advocacy with refugee and mainstream organizations, policymakers, and the general public.








Refugees International 21 Dupont Circle, NW 
Washington, DC 20036 
(202) 828-0110 Executive Director: Lionel Rosenblatt








Refugees International monitors refugee situations worldwide to ensure that refugees' basic needs for protection and care are met. It provides information to both policymakers and the public, advocates fair refugee policy at home and abroad, and organizes letter-writing campaigns.








PUBLICATION: Refugees International publishes a newsletter.








Relief and Development Institute 1 Ferdinand Place 
London NWI 8EE 
England 
(44-71) 485-0944 
Fax: (44-71) 284-0244 Director: Edward Clay








Relief and Development Institute researches all aspects of disaster relief and management, including refugee communities. It hosts workshops and briefing and training courses for field staff, and it also acts as an information center.








PUBLICATIONS: Relief and Development Institute publishes Disasters, a quarterly journal.








The Salvation Army World Service Office (SAWSO) 615 Slaters Lane, 3rd Floor 
Alexandria, VA 22313 
(703) 684-5528 Executive Director: Dean B. Seiler








As a development arm of the Salvation Army, SAWSO provides technical and financial assistance in support of self-help, relief, and training programs. Assistance, including aid to disaster victims, refugees, and






 












Page 186




displaced persons, is available to the 93 countries and territories in which the Salvation Army operates.








Save the Children Federation, Inc. 54 Wilton Road 
Westport, CT 06880 
(203) 221-4000 President: Charles F. MacCormack








Founded in 1932, Save the Children Federation serves children through community development in 43 countries, including the United States. In its refugee programs, it provides humanitarian assistance with an emphasis on making refugees self-sufficient and providing a base on which long-term development can take place. Agriculture, nutrition, health care, sanitation, education, and small-scale enterprise are program components in Somalia, Zimbabwe, Sudan, and Pakistan. Training in literacy, language, cultural orientation, employment skills, and secondary and primary education are program components in Thailand and Indonesia.








Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC) 1628 16th Street, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20009 
(202) 667-4690 Executive Director: Le Xuan Khoa








SEARAC assists Southeast Asians in the United States in making the transition from refugee status to productive Asian Americans. Its major activities include public education and advocacy, leadership and citizenship development, capacity-building for Indochinese self-help organizations, and economic development.








United States Committee for Refugees (USCR) 1717 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Suite 701 
Washington, DC 20036 
(202) 347-3507 
Fax: (202) 347-3418 Director: Roger Winter








The U.S. Committee for Refugees is the public information and advocacy program of the American Council for Nationalities Service. It issues publications and provides information about refugees worldwide, and it participates actively as a refugee advocate in the development of U.S. policy with respect to refugees in the United States and abroad. It also supports specialized UN agencies working to ensure refugee protection and assistance.






 












Page 187




PUBLICATIONS: USCR publishes World Refugee Survey and Refugee Reports, a monthly news service on refugee issues.








United States Committee for UNICEF 333 East 38th Street 
New York, NY 10016 
(212) 686-5522 Executive Vice President: Tsugiko Y. Scullion








Established in 1947, the U.S. Committee for UNICEF is the oldest and largest of 32 national UNICEF committees. It informs Americans about UNICEF's efforts to meet the needs of the developing world's children and their mothers in the areas of nutrition, primary health care, clean water and sanitation, education, social services, and emergency relief and rehabilitation. It also raises funds for UNICEF through greeting card sales, contributions, and special events.








Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children c/o International Rescue Committee 
122 East 42nd Street, 12th Floor 
New York, NY 10168-1289 
(212) 551-3000 Director: Mary Diaz








Founded in 1989 under the auspices of the International Rescue Committee, the mission of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children is to speak on behalf of the millions of women and children worldwide who have been forced to flee from their homes because of war, civil strife, famine, or persecution. It dispatches fact-finding delegations of distinguished women to refugee areas all over the world and testifies before Congress. It also presents its findings to the U.S. State Department, UN officials, and other governments.








World Concern International P.O. Box 33000 
19303 Fremont Avenue North 
Seattle, WA 98133 
(206) 546-7201 Executive Director: Fred Gregory








World Concern International provides emergency relief, but focuses primarily on long-term development to refugee and nonrefugee populations in Asia, Africa, and the Americas. Indigenous agencies supply most of the aid through technical assistance, grants, and commodities.






 












Page 188 




World Learning, Inc. Southeast Asia Programs 
Box 676 
Brattleboro, VT 05302 
(802) 258-3124 Vice President: Claude Del Pepin








In a consortium with Save the Children and World Education, World Learning offers English as a Second Language (ESL), cultural work orientation, and other programs to Indochinese living in Phanat Nikhom, Thailand. It provides education, literacy, and limited ESL to Indochinese refugees and asylum-seekers in Galang, Indonesia; administers repatriation programs in Laos; and offers job development and reintegration employment skills training projects in Vietnam. In addition, World Learning assists Afghan refugees in Pakistan to generate income and obtain education.








World Vision, Inc. 919 West Huntington Drive 
Monrovia, CA 91016 
(818) 305-7836 
President: Dr. Robert A. Seiple 
Director, Refugee Programs: Rev. ''Duke" Duc X. Nguyen








World Vision was established in 1950 and is an international Christian child relief agency and a development agency. Today it supports over 6,000 projects in 94 countries. U.S. programs work with children who are at risk, the urban poor, and Asian Americans. The organization benefits nearly 17 million people through child sponsorship, primary health care, agricultural development, and community leadership projects.






 












Page 189




6 Selected Print Resources








THERE ARE THOUSANDS OF PUBLICATIONS on refugees, and the number is rapidly expanding. In this chapter we offer a brief annotated bibliography of the leading journals, major references, books, and reports in the field so readers can quickly identify the sources most important and useful to them.








Principal Journals








There are many periodicals that carry material related to refugees, a highly interdisciplinary topic. Several academic journals in the following list, however, are specifically dedicated to refugees and offer essential research and reference sources.








AWR Bulletin Association for the Study of the World Refugee Problem 
Wilhelm Braumuller 
Universitats-Verlagsbuchandlung 
A-1092 Vienna 
Servite-casse 5 
Austria








This quarterly publication is devoted to the study of refugee problems. It includes articles, speeches, book reviews, legislative materials, and other writings of concern to refugees.






 












Page 190 




Human Rights Internet Reporter Human Rights Internet 
University of Ottawa 
57 Louis Pasteur 
Ottawa 
Canada K1N 6N5








This publication is a comprehensive reference work on humanitarian activity worldwide.








Human Rights Quarterly The Johns Hopkins University Press 
701 West 40th Street, Suite 275 
Baltimore, Maryland 21211-2190








This quarterly journal specializes in human rights, including refugee issues.








Immigrants and Minorities Frank Cass, Gainsborough House 
11 Gainsborough Road 
London E11 1RS 
England








Immigrants and Minorities is a British quarterly that focuses on immigrant minorities in Western societies.








International Migration International Organization for Migration 
P.O. Box 71 
CH-1211 Geneva 19 
Switzerland








This intergovernmental quarterly includes documents, conference reports, and articles.








International Migration Review Center for Migration Studies 
209 Flagg Place 
Staten Island, NY 10034








The leading quarterly journal in the field of migration, International Migration Review contains current research articles, book reviews, documents, and bibliographies.








International Review of the Red Cross International Committee of the Red Cross 
17 avenue de la paix 
CH-1211 Geneva 
Switzerland






 












Page 191




This journal, published six times a year, contains articles on international humanitarian law.








Journal of International Refugee Law Oxford University Press 
Walton Street 
Oxford OX2 6DP 
England








This quarterly journal publishes articles about refugee law and policy. It also includes legislation, documentation, and abstracts of recent publications in the field.








Journal of Refugee Studies Refugee Studies Programme 
Oxford University Press 
Walton Street 
Oxford OX2 6DP 
England








The quarterly Journal of Refugee Studies covers all aspects of refugee issues from a multidisciplinary perspective.








Migration Berlin Institute for Social Research 
Postfach 1125 
1000 Berlin 30 
Germany








Migration is a European journal of international migration and ethnic relations.








Migration World Center for Migration Studies 
209 Flagg Place 
Staten Island, NY 10304








This journal publishes articles and information about migration and refugee problems worldwide. It is written in a readable and accessible way and is a good source of information for school and college reports.








Monday Church World Service 
455 Riverside Drive 
New York, NY 10115






 












Page 192




A weekly newsletter, Monday discusses refugee and immigration issues of both national and international significance.








Netherlands Quarterly of Human Rights Kluwer Publishers 
675 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02139








This quarterly journal covers refugees and other human rights issues and problems.








Refuge Centre for Refugee Studies 
York University 
322 York Lanes 
North York, Ontario 
Canada M3J 1P3








This publication discusses Canadian refugee policy and reviews recent developments in refugee problems around the world.








Refugee Participation Network Refugee Studies Programme 
Queen Elizabeth House 
21 St. Giles 
Oxford OX1 3LA 
England








Refugee Participation Network disseminates research findings and provides a forum for debate among the personnel of humanitarian agencies and refugees themselves.








Refugee Reports U.S. Committee for Refugees 
1717 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Suite 701 
Washington, DC 20036








Refugee Reports is an essential monthly source of information and documentation about refugees and legislation and programs affecting them. A special year-end statistical issue is published every December.








Revue Europeene des migrations internationales 
University of Poitiers 
Poitiers 86022 
France






 












Page 193




Issues of this biannual publication, published by the university's geography department, focus on subjects such as Antilleans in Europe and immigration in the Americas.








World Disasters Report International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies 
17 Chenin des Crets 
case postale 372 
CH-1211 Geneva 19 
Switzerland








This report is the only annual report focusing on disasters-from earthquakes to epidemics and conflict to economic crises -and on the millions of people affected by them.








World Refugee Survey U.S. Committee for Refugees 
1717 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Suite 701 
Washington, DC 20036








World Refugee Survey is an indispensable annual survey that identifies and reviews refugee problems in the world and provides authoritative statistics.








Important Document Sources








INS Reporter 
Immigration and Naturalization Service 
U.S. Department of Justice 
425 I Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20536








This quarterly publication provides a brief survey of recent developments in U.S. immigration law.








Refugee Survey Quarterly Center for Documentation on Refugees 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) 
case postale 2500 
1211-Geneva 2 Depot 
Switzerland








This quarterly lists the abstracts of many of the publications about refugees. In addition, it contains a selection of country reports and a section on refugee- or human rights-related legal documentation.






 












Page 194 




Refugee Report Bureau for Refugee Programs 
Department of State 
Room 5824 
2201 C Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20520








This is the official annual report to Congress concerning the world refugee situation.








SOPEMI: Continuous Reporting on Migration Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
2 rue Andre-Pascal 
75775 Paris Cedex 16 
France








This annual publication has articles and important statistical information on migration flows into the industrialized states of the world.








Sri Lanka Monitor The Refugee Council 
3-9 Bondway 
London SW8 
England








Sri Lanka Monitor contains information about Tamil refugees and developments in Sri Lanka affecting refugee flows.








The State of World Population UN Population Fund 
United Nations 
UN Plaza 
New York, NY 10017








This annual publication discusses world population growth and related problems, and it contains useful statistics. UN Population Fund also publishes: World Population Trends, Reports, World Foreign-Born Populations, and World Migration Studies.








Reference Works








This section provides a select listing of key reference resources that are useful in the study of refugees. Although some of the titles may not deal specifically with refugees, they are included here because they have sections on refugees or are valuable introductions to refugee-related issues.






 












Page 195




Aitchison, Jean. International Thesaurus of Refugee Terminology. Dordrecht, Netherlands: Martinus Nijhoff, 1989. 476p. ISBN 0-7923-0504-3.








This thesaurus covers a wide range of subjects central to or impinging on the field of refugees. It is intended for use by organizations that are active in documentation work concerning refugees.








American Immigrant Lawyers Association. The Law of Asylum: A Manual for Practitioners and Adjudicators. Washington, DC: American Immigrant Lawyers Association, 1989. 81p.








An indispensable resource for lawyers involved in asylum work, this resource analyzes and explains the legal basis for asylum, the withholding of deportation and application processes, cessation of asylum status, the rights of applicants, and the handling of persecution claims.








Berlin Institute for Comparative Social Research. German Literature on Flight and Asylum. Berlin: Edition Parabolis, 1992. 312p.








This publication lists the German language literature on assimilation problems of German refugees and expellees, asylum legislation, and the integration of migrants in Germany.








 Refugees in Africa. Berlin: Edition Parabolis, 1993. 140p.








This bibliography includes the major works on refugee movements in Africa.








. Refugees in Asia and Australia/Oceania. Berlin: Edition Parabolis, 1992. 144p.








This is a listing of 1,283 titles covering refugee movements in Asia and Australasia since the end of World War II.








. Refugees in Latin America and the Caribbean. Berlin: Edition Parabolis, 1993. 140p.








This is a bibliography of the research on refugees in Latin America and the Caribbean.








 Refugees in Northern America. Berlin: Edition Parabolis, 1993. 300p.








This listing of books, articles, research reports, dissertations, and reports of aid agencies on refugee issues covers all of North America.








 Refugees in Western Europe. Berlin: Edition Parabolis, 1992. 176p.






 












Page 196




Refugees in Western Europe lists the literature on the refugee and asylum issue in Western Europe, excluding Germany. It includes studies on refugee movements, immigration and asylum policy, the social situation of refugees, and their integration and legal status.








Boyer, Laura M. The Older Generation of Southeast Asian Refugees, An Annotated Bibliography. Minneapolis, MN: Southeast Asian Refugee Studies Project, Center for Urban and Regional Affairs, University of Minnesota, 1991. 61p.








This is an annotated listing of sources on older Southeast Asian refugees.








Center for Human Rights, United Nations. Human Rights Bibliography: United Nations Documents and Publications, 1980-1990. New York: United Nations, 1993. 5 volumes. ISBN 92-1-100377-6.








This bibliography presents all UN instruments, documents, and publications on human rights.








Center for the Study of Human Rights, Columbia University, New York. Human Rights: A Topical Bibliography. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 1983. 297p. ISBN 0-86531-571-X.








A bibliography consisting of scholarly books and articles on human rights, Human Rights draws primarily from the disciplines of law, the social sciences, and philosophy. It includes a list of the agencies that provide documentary resource materials on a continuing basis.








Central America Refugee Policy Research Project. Sourcebook on Central American Refugee Policy: A Bibliography. Austin, TX: Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, University of Texas, 1985. 68p.








This bibliography contains almost 800 items, including books, articles, newsletters, and other reports and resources on Central American refugees.








Davies, Julian, and Refugee Studies Programme, University of Oxford. Displaced Peoples and Refugee Studies, A Resource Guide. London: Hans Zell Publishers, 1990. 219p. ISBN 0-905450-76-0.








This resource guide includes a comprehensive and well-annotated list of manuals, reference works, periodicals, dissertations, and books. There are also useful directories of libraries, documentation centers, research and teaching centers, and organizations concerned with all aspects of the refugee issue, arranged alphabetically by country of location.






 












Page 197




Enrostat. Asylum Seekers and Refugees: A Statistical Report. Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 1994. 157p. ISBN 92-826-7623-4.








This publication is an important resource of statistics providing up-todate figures on asylum-seekers and refugees for the European Union and European Free Trade Association countries.








Fenton, Thomas, and Mary Heffron, eds. Third World Resource Directory. Maryknoll, New York: Orbis Books, 1984. 283p. ISBN 0-88344-509-3.








This comprehensive resource guide is divided into geographical areas and themes. It covers resources, organizations, and printed and audiovisual materials.








Hammond, Ruth E., and Glenn L. Hendricks, eds. Southeast Asian Refugee Youth: An Annotated Bibliography. Minneapolis, MN: Southeast Asian Refugee Studies Project, Center for Urban and Regional Affairs, University of Minnesota, 1988. 143p. Publication No. CURA 88-2.








This annotated bibliography lists 372 works about Southeast Asian young people who are refugees in the United States.








Human Rights Internet. Africa: Human Rights Directory and Bibliography. Ottawa: Human Rights Internet, University of Ottawa, 1989. 304p. ISBN 0-939338-04-1.








This directory of human rights organizations in Africa is concerned with human rights and social justice.








. Human Rights Directory: Eastern Europe. Ottawa: Human Rights Internet, University of Ottawa, 1987. 210p. ISBN 0-939338-03-3.








This resource lists organizations in Eastern Europe that are working on human rights and social justice.








. Human Rights Directory: Latin America and the Caribbean. Ottawa: Human Rights Internet, University of Ottawa, 1990. 526p. ISBN 0-939338-05-X.








This directory describes nearly 800 organizations concerned with human rights and humanitarian issues in Latin America and the Caribbean. Available in English and Spanish, it is an excellent source for networking, research, and policymaking.






 












Page 198 




. Human Rights Directory: North America. Ottawa: Human Rights Internet, University of Ottawa, 1984. 300p. ISBN 0-939338-02-5.








This directory lists organizations in North America concerned with human rights and social justice.








. Human Rights Directory: Western Europe. Ottawa: Human Rights Internet, University of Ottawa, 1982. 335p. ISBN 0-939338-01-7.








This directory focuses on organizations in Western Europe that deal with human rights and social justice issues.








International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). Bibliography of International Humanitarian Law Applicable in Armed Conflicts. Geneva: ICRC and Henry Dunant Institute, 1987. 605p. ISBN 2-88044-017-3.








An indispensable bibliography, this book covers international humanitarian law, international armed conficts, noninternational armed conflicts, and protection of noncombatants in warfare.








International Refugee Integration Resource Centre (IRIRC). International Bibliography of Refugee Literature. Geneva: IRIRC, 1985. 152p.








This bibliography includes 850 titles covering refugee situations according to the following categories: international organizations, exodus, asylum, resettlement, and integration.








Newman, Frank, and David Weissbrodt, eds. Selected International Human Rights Instruments. Cincinnati: Anderson Publishing Co., 1990. 812p. ISBN 0-87084-368-0.








This handbook lists and describes the principal international human rights instruments.








Refugee Studies Programme, University of Oxford. The Directory of Research on Refugees and Other Forced Migrants, 3d ed. Oxford: Refugee Studies Programme, 1993. 184p. ISBN 0-9512260-0-2.








This directory contains information on the research and publications of about 400 scholars working in the refugee field. It gives the cultural origin, discipline, and research topic for each entry and provides telephone and fax numbers where applicable. Cross-referencing is facilitated by lists based on geographical area and discipline of each person listed.








Segal, Aaron. An Atlas of International Migration. London: Hans Zell, 1993. 233p. ISBN 1-873836-30-9.






 












Page 199




This atlas details various kinds of migration patterns and their effects on sending and receiving countries. It contains much useful documentation.








Schorr, Alan. Refugee and Immigrant Resource Directory, 1990-1991. Juneau, AK: Denali Press, 1990. 349p. ISBN 0-938737-19-8.








This invaluable resource includes information on 958 local, regional, and national organizations, research centers, academic programs, foundations, museums, government agencies, and other groups in the United States that offer services or provide information about refugees and immigrants.








United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Collection of International Instruments concerning Refugees. Geneva: UNHCR, 1979. 335p.








This is a collection of the international legal instruments (concerning refugees, stateless persons, and human rights), regional legal instruments (for Africa, Europe, and the Americas), and other instruments.








. Conclusions on the International Protection of Refugees Adopted by the Executive Committee on International Protection of Refugees of the UNHCR Program. Geneva: UNHCR, 1980. 91p.








This compendium comprises the conclusions on the international protection of refugees as adopted by UNHCR's Executive Committee up to 1980.








UNHCR Centre for Documentation on Refugees and Refugee Policy Group. Bibliography on Refugee Children. Geneva: UNHCR, 1987. 138p.








This is an annotated bibliography on refugee children categorized under protection and assistance; national policies; refugee camps; placement and fostering; integration; education; health; and psychological problems.








. Bibliography on Refugee Women. Geneva: UN HCR, 1989.122p.








This annotated bibliography focuses on current research on refugee women and is arranged geographically.








. Bibliography Prepared for the Excom Working Group on Solutions and Protection. Geneva: UNHCR, 1990. 85p.








This is an annotated bibliography of literature on refugees divided into four sections: (1) refugee and related migratory movements; (2) solutions; (3) early warning and prevention; and (4) refugee law and policies.






 












Page 200




UNHCR Liaison Section with Non-Governmental Organizations. Directory of Non-Governmental Organizations. Geneva: UNHCR, 1992. 240p.








This directory contains the names and addresses of over 500 institutions working with refugees and asylum-seekers.








Williams, Carolyn. An Annotated Bibliography on Refugee Mental Health. Washington, DC: Department of Health and Human Services, 1987. 335p. DHHS Publication No. (ADM) 87-1517.








This bibliography of 666 items is organized under four main headings: (1) understanding refugees in context; (2) specific mental health issues and refugees; (3) concerns of selected subgroups of refugees; and (4) other bibliographies on refugees or related topics.








Books








Adelman, Howard, ed. Refugee Policy: Canada and the United States. Toronto: York Lanes Press, 1991. 455p. ISBN 0-9343733-64-3.








This book, a collection of papers presented at a conference at York University in 1990, compares the refugee policies of Canada and the United States. It includes contributions by many of the leading North American researchers in refugee studies and has chapters on the normative and political aspects of refugee policy, root causes, refugee relief and development assistance, refugee law and practice, and resettlement policies.








Baker, Ron, ed. The Psychological Problems of Refugees. London: The British Refugee Council, 1983. 250p. ISBN 0-946787-00-X.








This book provides data on the mental health problems experienced by many refugees.








Basoglu, Metin. Torture and Its Consequences. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1992. 355p. ISBN 0521-39299-3.








Basoglu gives an account of victims of torture, many of whom are refugees, and the challenges of providing treatment for these individuals.








Bramwell, Anna, ed. Refugees in the Age of Total War: Twentieth Century Case-Studies of Refugees in Europe and the Middle East. London: Unwin Hyman, 1987. 359p. ISBN 004-445194-6.








These 20 chapters analyze refugee movements in Europe and the Middle East generated by the two world wars and their aftermaths. They






 












Page 201




Bread for the World Institute on Hunger and Development. Hunger 1993: Uprooted People. Washington, DC: Bread for the World Institute on Hunger and Development, 1992. 204p. ISBN 1-9628058-6-6.








This book focuses on the special circumstances of refugees and displaced people and the problems of hunger and malnutrition. It is a useful overview of the issues and contains many helpful tables and graphs, as well as a bibliography.








Cahill, Kevin, ed. A Framework for Survival: Health, Human Rights, and Humanitarian Assistance in Conflicts and Disasters. New York: Basic Books and the Council on Foreign Relations, 1993. 340p. ISBN 0-465-02513-7.








This book, with 20 chapters by practitioners, focuses on legal and economic issues, health issues, and the responses of private voluntary agencies and the United Nations to humanitarian crises. It illustrates the interdependence of conflict, famine, health care, and refugee crises and underscores the importance of a comprehensive approach to these problems.








Collinson, Sarah. Beyond Borders: West European Migration Policy towards the 21st Century. London: Royal Institute of International Affairs and Wyndham Place Trust, 1993. 116p. ISBN 0-905031.








This book focuses on some of the major policy challenges confronting European governments: immigrant integration, immigration controls, proposals to alleviate the root causes of migration, and refugee and asylum policies.








. Europe and International Migration. London: Pinter Publishers, 1993. 189p. ISBN 1-85567-049-6.








This book highlights elements of continuity and change in European states' involvement in migration policies. It places the problem of migration within an international, historical process and focuses on the integration of immigrant and ethnic minorities. Finally, it discusses Europe's efforts to harmonize their asylum and migration policies.








Crew, Linda. Children of the River. New York: Dell Publishing, 1991. 213p. ISBN 0-440-21022-4.








Children of the River is a novel for young adults about Sundra, a teenage Cambodian refugee, who is torn between her loyalty to her family and cultural traditions and her love for an American boy.






 












Page 202




Damrosch, Lori. Enforcing Restraint: Collective Intervention in Internal Conflicts. New York: Council on Foreign Relations Press, 1993. 403p. ISBN 0-87609-155-9.








This is a collection of case studies -from the former Yugoslavia, Somalia, Haiti, Liberia, and Cambodia-that examines the efforts by the international community to intervene to end political conflict and provide humanitarian relief in the post-Cold War era.








Deng, Francis. Protecting the Dispossessed: A Challenge for the International Community. Washington, DC: The Brookings Institution, 1993. 175p. ISBN 0-8157-1825-X.








This book details the difficulties the international community confronts trying to protect the approximately 25 million internally displaced people in the world today. It includes case studies from the former Yugoslavia, Russia, Somalia, Sudan, El Salvador, and Cambodia.








Dowty, Alan. Closed Borders: The Contemporary Assault on Freedom of Movement. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1987. 270p. ISBN 0-300-03824-0.








Dowty traces how different governments throughout history have dealt with populations both entering and exiting their countries and explores the reasons for past and present government policies designed to restrict entry. He also analyzes the political and economic consequences of such policies and argues for a policy of open borders that would allow individuals to emigrate or immigrate at will.








Druke, Louise. Preventive Action for Refugee-Producing Situations. Frankfurt: Peter Lang, 1990. 271p. ISBN 3-631-42243-1.








Preventive Action for Refugee-Producing Situations examines situations where refugees are exploited as a weapon for political purposes and suggests ways to prevent situations that lead to refugee flows.








Ferris, Elizabeth. Beyond Borders: Refugees, Migrants and Human Rights in the Post-Cold War Era. Geneva: World Council of Churches Publications, 1993. 310p. ISBN 2-8254-1095-0.








This book examines the international context within which forced migration occurs and discusses the role of international organizations, governments, and nongovernmental organizations in assisting and protecting refugees.








Forbes Martin, Susan. Refugee Women. London: Zed Books, 1992. 195p. ISBN 1-85649-001-7.






 












Page 203




This book focuses on the particular circumstances of refugee women and shows how they have to cope with additional traumas, such as rape.








Frank, Anne. The Diary of a Young Girl. New York: Random House, 1990. 285p. ISBN 1-55736-098-7.








This is the remarkable story of a young Jewish girl and two families who hid from the Nazis in a house in Amsterdam from 1942 to 1944. It is a poignant account of the thoughts and expressions of a young teenager living under extraordinarily difficult conditions.








Gallagher, Dennis, ed. Refugees: Issues and Directions. International Migration Review. Volume 20. New York: Center for Migration Studies, 1986. 541p. ISSN 0197-9183.








This is a special edition of the International Migration Review dealing with refugees. Eighteen essays by refugee specialists analyze the causes and characteristics of refugee movements worldwide, asylum and protection issues, refugee issues in developing countries, and adjustment and resettlement matters.








Gibney, Mark ed. Open Borders? Closed Societies? The Ethical and Political Questions. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1988. 199p. ISBN 0-313-25578-4.








This collection of essays addresses many of the legal and ethical questions regarding policy on immigration and refugee admissions. Although these issues are of concern to most states, the focus of the authors in this volume is American policy.








Goodwin-Gill, Guy. The Refugee in International Law. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1983. 317p. ISBN 0-19-825518-7.








This is a classic sourcebook for international refugee law. It describes the framework of refugee law and covers the definitions of terms such as refugee, refoulement, refugee asylum, and refugee protection. The author examines the evolution and effectiveness of treaties and organizations, state policies, and responsibilities, and he includes an appendix of key texts.








Gordenker, Leon. Refugees in International Politics. New York: Columbia University Press, 1987. 227p. ISBN 0-7099-3848-9.








This study explores the nature of forced migration and sets forth a framework that examines the causes of refugee movements. The author also covers the responses of states and international organizations to refugee flows and examines the traditional solutions -repatriation, local resettlement, and third-country resettlement-to refugee incidents. The






 












Page 204 




study concludes with recommendations regarding early warning and a preventive framework for dealing with future refugee flows.








Gorman, R. E Coping with Africa's Refugee Burden: A Time for Solutions. Dordrecht, Netherlands: Martinus Nijhoff, 1987. 206p. ISBN 90-247-3457-6.








This book focuses on the recommendations of the Second International Conference on Assistance to Refugees in Africa (ICARA II). The author analyzes the policies, organizational constraints, and roles of international agencies, governments, and nongovernmental organizations in responding to the refugee crisis, as well as the related development needs of host countries.








Grahl-Madsen, Atle. The Status of Refugees in International Law. Leyden, Netherlands: A. W. Sijthoff, 1966. 2 vols. 499p. ISBN 0-3192070-60.








This two-volume work investigates the international framework of refugee law. It examines refugee status determination, refugee definitions, refugee rights and obligations, and international and national law.








Hakovirta, H. Third World Conflicts and Refugeeism: Dimensions, Dynamics and Trends of the World Refugee Problem. Helsinki: Finnish Society of Science and Letters, 1986. 160p. ISBN 95-165-3140-7.








This study attempts to develop a social science model for analyzing the causes, dimensions, trends, and consequences of contemporary refugee movements.








Hannum, H. The Right To Leave and Return in International Law and Practice. Leyden, Netherlands: Martinus Nijhoff, 1987. 189p. ISBN 90-247-3445-2.








This study examines the international formulation, historical evolution, and jurisprudence of the right to leave and return. The author also analyzes state practice toward the right to movement in various countries throughout the world.








Hansen, Art, and A. Oliver-Smith, eds. Involuntary Migration and Resettlement: The Problems and Responses of Dislocated People. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 1982. 333p. ISBN 0-8915-89767.








This volume examines a number of migration and resettlement schemes. The authors look at individual, group, and state reactions to the stresses of involuntary dislocation and resettlement and compare these to the stresses of voluntary migration.






 












Page 205




Harrell-Bond, Barbara. Imposing Aid: Emergency Assistance to Refugees. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1986. 440p. ISBN 0-19-261543-2.








This study appraises the assistance program mounted by international agencies in response to an emergency influx of Ugandan refugees into Sudan starting in early 1982. Using the findings of this case study, the author questions the effectiveness of current refugee assistance strategies. In particular, the book argues that relief workers easily become part of the problem they set out to solve and finds that in the search for solutions the needs and skills of refugees are often overlooked.








Hathaway, James. The Law of Refugee Status. Toronto: Butterworths, 1991. 252p. ISBN 0-409-91479-7.








This book explains the scope of the definition of the term refugee as embodied in the United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees (1951) and as it has evolved in practice. This is an excellent resource for international refugee law and is particularly useful to those concerned about the legal determination of refugee status.








Hitchcox, Linda. Refugees. New York: Franklin Watts, 1990. 32p. ISBN 0-531-17242-2.








One of the ''Issues" series on current problems, this work is aimed at primary school children. It uses text, maps, and photographs to present the subject and includes a section on refugee children, a page of useful facts and statistics, and an index.








Holborn, Louise W. The International Refugee Organization: A Specialized Agency of the United Nations, Its History and Work, 1946-1952. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1956. 819p.








This book details the history and activities of the United Nations' first refugee organization, the International Refugee Organization, between 1946 and 1952.








. Refugees: A Problem of Our Time: The Work of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, 1975. 2 vols. 1,525p. ISBN 0-8108-0746-7.








These two volumes detail the history of the first 20 years of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Considered to be the official history of the early development of UNHCR, it contains extensive country-by-country case studies and provides useful historical documentation.








Holm, Anne. North to Freedom. San Diego, CA: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1965. 239p. ISBN 0-15-257553-7.






 












Page 206




This novel for young adults recounts the story of David, a 12-year-old boy, who escapes from a prison camp in Eastern Europe during the Cold War and makes his way on foot across Europe until he finds freedom.








Independent Commission on International Humanitarian Issues. Refugees: Dynamics of Displacement. London: Zed Books, 1986. 152p. ISBN 0-86232-697-4.








This is the official report on refugees from the Independent Commission on International Humanitarian Issues. The report focuses on mass expulsion, forcible relocation programs, and internally displaced people. It also highlights the increasingly restrictive policies of Western governments toward asylum-seekers, the responsibilities of governments worldwide in causing involuntary migration, and the inadequacy of international law in the prevention and resolution of problems of involuntary migration.








Joly, Daniele, Clive Nettleton, and H. Poulton. Refugees: Asylum in Europe? London: Minority Rights Publications, 1992. 180p. ISBN 1-873194-10-2.








This book examines the causes of refugee flight in both Western and Eastern Europe, the acceptance and settlement of refugees, international conventions and state legislation, and the racist backlash against refugees. It suggests how individuals, organizations, and governments can protect and assist refugees.








Kent, Randolph. The Anatomy of Disaster Relief: The International Network in Action. London: Pinter Publishers, 1987. 201p. ISBN 0-86187-294-0.








This study analyzes the causes and consequences of disasters, including man-made ones, and investigates the structure of the international disaster relief process. The author discusses specifically the role of international organizations and governments. He argues that some disaster relief aid is ineffective because many aid workers have skills unsuited to the disaster environment, pay little attention to the culture and traditions of aid recipients, and fail to learn from earlier mistakes.








Kibreab, Gaim. African Refugees: Reflections on the African Refugee Problem. Trenton, NJ: Red Sea Press, 1985. 132p. ISBN 0-86543-007-1.








This work critically examines assumptions about refugee rehabilitation in African host countries and suggests the adoption of measures to make refugees active and useful participants in the development process.






 












Page 207




Kidd, Diana. Onion Tears. New York: Orchard Books, 1989. 62p. ISBN 0-531-08470-0.








This novel for young readers tells the story of Nam-Houng, a Vietnamese refugee, and the difficult adjustments she has to make integrating into her new homeland in the United States.








Koehn, Peter. Refugees from Revolution: U.S. Policy and Third World Migration. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 1991. ISBN 0-8133-7719-6.








This study examines the causes of recent refugee migrations to the United States and the underlying connections between U.S. foreign and domestic policies regarding immigration, refugee resettlement, and human rights. The author focuses on Cuban, Indochinese, Ethiopian, Eritrean, and Iranian exile communities in the United States and examines their treatment under U.S. policy, their social and economic adaptation, and the factors that influence their decisions to return home.








Kritz, Mary, ed. U.S. Immigration and Refugee Policy: Global and Domestic Issues. Lexington, MA: D. C. Heath, 1983. 415p. ISBN 0-669-05543-3.








This book is an anthology of many theoretical and policy issues that confront scholars concerned with international migration. The editor stresses the importance of identifying the causes of population flows.








Kunz, Egon E Displaced Persons: Calwell's New Australians. Sydney: Australian National University Press, 1988. 285p. ISBN 0-080-034406-2.








This history details Australia's immigration policy during and after World War II, when displaced Estonians, Latvians, Lithuanians, Poles, Ukranians, Russians, Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians, Croats, Serbs, and Bulgarians were transported to Australia to increase its population and work force.








Lake, Anthony, et al., eds. After the Wars: Reconstruction in Afghanistan, Indochina, Central America, Southern Africa and the Horn of Africa. New Brunswick, NJ: Transaction Publishers, 1991. 197p. ISBN 0-887-738880-9.








Five policy analysts examine the political and economic costs of rebuilding the regions that experienced geopolitical rivalries and long-standing and destructive wars during the 1980s. Policy suggestions include creating an international fund to finance the reconstruction of war-torn areas of the Third World.






 












Page 208 




Larkin, Mary Ann, Frederick Cuny, and Barry Stein. Repatriation under Conflict in Central America. Washington, DC, and Dallas: Georgetown University and Intertecht, 1991. 231 p. ISBN 0-924046-17-1.








This multiauthored volume examines the issue of repatriation in Central America. Experts examine the motivations of Salvadoran, Guatemalan, and Nicaraguan refugees from their initial flight through repatriation. Conditions in exile and at home, as well as assistance policies, are analyzed in light of their influence on the repatriation decision.








Lawless, Richard, and Laila Monahan, eds. War and Refugees: The Western Sahara Conflict. London: Pinter Publishers, 1987. 201p. ISBN 0-86187-900-7.








This is a study of the Western Sahara conflict and the long-standing refugee problem it created. The book analyzes the economic and political interests behind the war and the legal basis for occupation by Morocco, and it describes the life of a largely forgotten group of refugees.








Loescher, Gil. Beyond Charity: International Cooperation and the Global Refugee Crisis. New York: Oxford University Press, 1993. 260p. ISBN 0-19-508183-8.








This book is an extensive overview of the global refugee situation in the post-Cold War era. The author presents the contemporary crisis in a historical framework, examining both the rise of refugee problems in the last 70 years and the roles of international agencies, particularly the UNHCR, in responding to those problems. The book concludes with short- and long-term measures that might help address various aspects of the refugee problem.








. Refugee Movements and International Security. Adelphi Paper 268. London: Brassey's for International Institute for Strategic Studies, 1992. 83p. ISBN 1-85-753-022-5.








This study examines the relationship between refugee movements and national and international security in the post-Cold War period. The author offers an overview of the contemporary refugee situation, outlines the political and strategic causes and consequences of refugee flows, and suggests a policy framework for dealing with the global refugee problem.








, ed. Refugees and the Asylum Dilemma in the West. University Park, PA: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1992. 119p. ISBN 0-271-00856-3.








This book examines the historical background and contemporary significance of the asylum and refugee issue confronting Western governments and draws lessons for future policymaking. Seven experts look






 












Page 209




at asylum policy in the United States, Canada, and Western Europe and the development of an international response to the global refugee problem.








Loescher, Gil, and Ann Loescher. The World's Refugees, A Test of Humanity. San Diego, CA: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1982. 145p. ISBN 0-15-299650-8.








Written for high school students and the uninitiated, this book provides an insightful introduction to the world refugee problem. It looks at what life is like for refugees in different regions of the world and at the international response to the problem. It also includes useful appendixes.








Loescher, Gil, and Laila Monahan, eds. Refugees and International Relations. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1989. 430p. ISBN 0-19-827564-1.








This study contains 17 essays by experts in the field of refugee protection and assistance. It examines the international context and the political, legal, and economic dimensions of the global refugee problem, as well as the search for appropriate policy responses to this growing problem. Among the specific subjects addressed are military attacks on refugee camps, voluntary repatriation, restrictionism in Europe, women refugees, the role of the churches, the future of third-country settlement, and the problems of development and repatriation.








Loescher, Gil, and John Scanlan. Calculated Kindness: Refugees and America's Half Open Door, 1945-Present. New York: Free Press, 1986. 346p. ISBN 0-02-927340-4.








This study documents the political history of American refugee policy from 1945 until 1986. The authors focus on the factors that have influenced the refugee admissions policy of the United States: Cold War foreign policy that views refugees as symbols and instruments of anticommunism, restrictionist forces that contend that refugees are difficult to assimilate and that they take jobs away from Americans, religious and ethnic groups that lobby for displaced persons and coethnics abroad, and humanitarian interests that advocate admission for persecuted groups and individuals abroad.








, eds. The Global Refugee Problem: U.S. and World Response. Special Issue of the Annals of American Academy of Political and Social Science 467. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage Publications, 1983. 256p. ISBN 0-8039-2015-6.








This collection of 13 essays by leading experts in the field addresses the causes and consequences of refugee movements in the United States and






 












Page 210 




the world as they appeared in the early 1980s. Chapters focus on the scope of the problem, the international framework, the politics of refugee flows, and legal and resettlement issues.








Macalister-Smith, Peter. International Humanitarian Assistance: Disaster Relief Action in International Law and Organisation. Dordrecht, Netherlands: Martinus Nijhoff, 1985. 244p. ISBN 90-247-2993-9.








This book details the legal principles and instruments applied in historical and contemporary relief operations, with particular reference to the operations of the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, and various agencies of the United Nations, including the UNHCR. It also offers suggestions about how to improve the implementation of international humanitarian norms.








Marrus, Michael R. The Unwanted: European Refugees in the Twentieth Century. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1985. 415p. ISBN 0-19-503615-8.








This book tells the story of the refugee problem throughout the twentieth century, particularly during the Nazi era. It examines the impact of refugee movements on the conduct of international relations and diplomacy, outlines the growth of international agencies designed to help refugees, and assesses the work of those agencies.








Martin, David A., ed. The New Asylum-Seekers: Refugee Law in the 1980s. Dordrecht, Netherlands: Martinus Nijhoff, 1989. 217p. ISBN 90-247-3730-3.








This book addresses the legal and political issues raised by growing numbers of asylum-seekers and the increasingly restrictive measures introduced by Western governments during the 1980s.








Mason, Linda, and Roger Brown. Rice, Rivalry and Politics. South Bend, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1983. 218p. ISBN 02-680-1616-X.








The Khmer Rouge reign of terror and the subsequent invasion of Cambodia by Vietnam generated hundreds of thousands of refugees. This book tells the story of the international relief effort for these people, focusing in particular on the Thai-Cambodian border.








Minear, Larry. Humanitarian Action in Times of War. Boulder, CO: Lynne Rienner, 1993, 107p. ISBN 1-55587-437-1.








This is a handbook for practitioners providing humanitarian relief in armed conflict situations around the world.






 












Page 211




Morgan, Scott, and Elizabeth Colson, eds. People in Upheaval. Staten Island, NJ: Center for Migration Studies, 1987. 241p. ISBN 0-934733-16-3.








This collection of 11 essays addresses the issue of displaced people. Key topics include the ambiguity between involuntary and voluntary migration, the interaction of refugees and host communities, the growth of national and international agencies, the support of kin and community, and the effects of resettlement.








Morris, Benny. The Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem, 1947-1949. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1987. 380p. ISBN 0-521-33889-1.








Palestinian refugees constitute one of the oldest continuous refugee problems in the world. This book examines the roots of the Palestinian refugee problem by examining the exodus of 1947 to 1949 in the context of the first Arab-Israeli War. The author analyzes the reasons behind the Palestinian flight and uncovers some new views about it.








Muntarbhorn, Vitit. The Status of Refugees in Asia. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1992. 210p. ISBN 0-19-825668-X.








This work is an analysis of the national laws and regulations concerning the admission and treatment of refugees and aliens in Asia. It provides useful documentation.








Nichols, Bruce. The Uneasy Alliance: Religion, Refugee Work and U.S. Foreign Policy. New York: Oxford University Press, 1988. 351p. ISBN 0-19-504274-3.








U.S. refugee policy has always relied on the successful cooperation of government and voluntary agencies, especially religious groups. This study traces the history of cooperation and conflict between government policy and religious agencies regarding refugee work. The author claims that the increasingly political and moral disagreement between the U.S. government and the religious community over refugee assistance during the latter part of the Cold War threatened the American tradition of humanitarian assistance and reflected the loss of consensus in American foreign policy.








Nichols, Bruce, and Gil Loescher, eds. The Moral Nation: Humanitarianism and U.S. Foreign Policy Today. South Bend, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1989. 321p. ISBN 0-268-01398-5.








This book critically examines the roles of U.S. government and private agencies in providing relief to human rights victims, refugees, and famine victims. Contributors examine the moral and political philosophy






 












Page 212 




of humanitarianism and its relationship to the conduct of U.S. foreign policy, the political and legal factors involved in the formulation of humanitarian policy, and case studies involving asylum, sanctuary, and famine relief in Central America and the Horn of Africa.








Plender, Richard, ed. Basic Documents on International Migration Law. Dordrecht, Netherlands: Martinus Nijhoff, 1988. 424p. ISBN 90-247-3667-6.








This book lists the principal international conventions, declarations, and instruments governing the laws of international migration. It includes extracts from some of the instruments governing human rights and full texts of the principal treatises and declarations governing nationality, the protection of refugees, and migrant labor. There are also texts of the principal items of legislation of the European Communities and the instruments adopted by the Council of Europe, the Benelux Community, and the economic communities of West and Central Africa and the Caribbean.








 International Migration Law. Dordrecht, Netherlands: Martinus Nijhoff, 1988. 339p. ISBN 90-286-01627.








This is a comprehensive review of the rights of aliens under international law. It not only includes chapters on the rights of aliens but also on the powers of states to restrict aliens. The book also includes a table of cases, statutes, and other internal instruments regarding migration.








Ressler, Everett Neil Boothby, and David Steinbeck. Unaccompanied Children: Care and Placement in Wars, Natural Disasters and Refugee Movements. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1987. 421p. ISBN 0-19-504937-3.








This book provides a history of unaccompanied children and the assistance given them in the past. Based upon research conducted on the Thai-Cambodian border, the authors explain child development both within the family and community and outside these frameworks; the major legal issues involved concerning this group; and the roles of international and voluntary organizations.








Rogers, Rosemarie, and Emily Copeland. Forced Migration: Policy Issues in the Post-Cold War World. Medford, MA: The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, 1993. 151 p. ISBN 0-9636445-1-3.








This book is a good introduction to many of the policy issues involved in forced migration. It discusses the international political context of population movements and the limitations of traditional responses to refugee problems. It also proposes a more comprehensive approach to refugees for the future. The book has useful tables and references.






 












Page 213




Rutter, Jill. We Left Because We Had To: An Educational Book for 14-18 Year Olds. London: Refugee Council, 1991. 148p. ISBN 0-946787-04-2.








This is an excellent educational resource for teachers offering lessons or courses on refugees. It discusses who refugees are, the causes of refugee movements, and the difficulties most refugees encounter as they resettle into new homelands.








Shawcross, William. The Quality of Mercy: Cambodia, Holocaust and Modern Conscience. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1984. 464p. ISBN 0-671-44022-5.








Written by a British journalist, this book examines the political disputes surrounding the worldwide relief effort aimed at Cambodia from the late 1970s to 1983. Shawcross tells the story of the workings of major relief agencies such as UNHCR and UNICEF and the political pressures exerted on them by the Thai, Vietnamese, and Western governments, as well as by the coalition government promoted by the various resistance groups within Cambodia.








Simpson, John Hope. The Refugee Problem. London: Oxford University Press, 1939. 637p.








This book is an account written in 1939 of the refugee problems in Europe during the preceding 20 years and of the international community's response to these problems.








Skran, Claudena. Refugees in Inter-War Europe. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1994. 282p. ISBN 0-19-827392-4.








An analysis of the refugee problem in Europe from 1921 to 1939, this volume gives a particularly useful account of the growth and evolution of the international community's response to refugees during the interwar period.








Stoessinger, John. The Refugee in the World Community. Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota Press, 1956. 239p.








This book is a history of the International Refugee Organization, which resettled over 1 million displaced persons between 1947 and 1951, and the motivations of states in accepting large numbers of refugees as immigrants.








Strom, Margot Stern, and William Parsons. Facing History and Ourselves: Holocaust and Human Behavior. Watertown, MA: Intentional Educations, Inc., 1982. 400p.






 












Page 214 




This educational book, aimed at high school and older students, considers the holocaust of Armenians at the hands of the Ottoman Empire and of Jews at the hands of the Third Reich. An important feature of this book is the material on the social and political attitudes that lead to persecution of minorities and to political tyranny.








Sutter, Valerie. The Indochinese Refugee Dilemma. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1990. 256p. ISBN 0-8071-1556-8.








Between 1975 and 1990, well over 1.5 million refugees poured out of Indochina. This book offers a concise history of the complex national issues surrounding the Indochina refugee problem. It examines the domestic and foreign policy interests of the Indochinese states, Thailand and other Southeast Asian states, China, the United States, and the Soviet Union.








United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The State of the World's Refugees: The Challenge of Protection. New York: Penguin Books, 1993. 191p. ISBN 0-14-023487-X.








The first of UNHCR's biennal reports on the state of the world's refugees, this book focuses on the challenge of refugee protection. It has chapters on the meaning of protection, the causes of displacement, the crisis of asylum, the role of the media, and the particular problems of protection in armed conflict, refugee emergencies, and repatriation. The book also provides extensive documentation, statistics, charts, and maps.








Vernant, Jacques. The Refugee in the Post-War World. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1953. 827p.








This is an account of the growth of refugee problems in the early post-World War II period, when large numbers of refugees fled communist regimes in Europe and the Soviet Union.








Weiner, Myron, ed. International Migration and Security. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 1993. 333p. ISBN 0-8133-8774-4.








This collection of essays analyzes the security consequences of international population movements. There are individual chapters on Europe, the former Soviet Union, Asia, Africa, and Central America.








Williams, Carolyn, and Joseph Westermayer, eds. Refugee Mental Health in Resettlement Countries. Washington, DC: Hemisphere Publishing Corporation, 1986. 267p. ISBN 08-911-64456.








Refugees often suffer trauma and severe psychological problems as a result of being uprooted and displaced. This work summarizes research literature dealing with refugee health problems and explains the accul-






 












Page 215




turation process, highlighting the behavioral and mental health problems of refugees. Case studies include Cambodians, the Falasha of Israel, Laotians, and Cubans. The book also offers suggestions for treatment and assessment.








Woodbridge, George. The History of UNRRA. New York: Columbia University Press, 1950. 3 vols. 1,639p.








This is a history of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA), which provided relief assistance to war victims and displaced people in Europe from 1943 to 1947. The book also recounts the repatriation of East Europeans and Russians after the end of World War II.








Wyman, David. The Abandonment of the Jews: America and the Holocaust, 1941-1945. New York: Pantheon, 1985. 444p. ISBN 0-39442-913-7.








This is a critical analysis of the failure of the United States to rescue more Jews from certain death in the Holocaust from 1941 to 1945.








 Paper Walls: America and the Refugee Crisis, 1938-1941. Amherst, MA: University of Massachusetts Press, 1968. 306p.








This is a moving and critical account of the ineffective and harsh U.S. policy toward Jews in Germany and the rest of Europe during the early years of World War II.








Zolberg, Aristide R., Astri Suhrke, and Sergio Aguayo. Escape from Violence: Conflict and the Refugee Crises in the Developing World. New York: Oxford University Press, 1989. 380p. ISBN 0-19-505592-6.








This book is one of the most systematic analyses of refugee movements in the Third World up to the late 1980s. The authors attempt a comprehensive, theoretically grounded, structural explanation for refugee movements and highlight the relationship between social conflict and refugee flows. All major regions of the world are covered, except the Middle East, Eastern Europe, and the former Soviet Union.








Zucker, Norman, and Naomi Zucker. The Guarded Gate: The Reality of American Refugee Policy. San Diego, CA: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1987. 342p. ISBN 0-15-137575-5.








This book tells the story of U.S. refugee and asylum policy up to the mid-1980s. The authors trace the origins of U.S. refugee policy to immigration restrictionism in American history and offer constructive suggestions for reform in refugee and asylum policy.






 












Page 216




Reports








Amnesty International. Amnesty International Report 1994. London: Amnesty International, 1994.








This annual report of worldwide human rights violations is produced by a prominent human rights monitoring organization.








Burr, Millard. Sudan 1990-1992: Food Aid, Famine and Failure. Washington, DC: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993.








About 5 million Sudanese have been internally displaced and more than half a million are refugees. This report provides a detailed historical review of Western food relief efforts and diplomatic maneuvering toward Sudan and looks at the Sudanese government policies that have persistently undermined relief efforts.








Chesnais, Jean-Claude. Migration from Eastern to Western Europe, Past (1946-1989) and Future (1990-2000). Strasbourg: Council of Europe, 1990.








This is an analysis of past and future trends of East-West flows. The main objective of this work is to reduce some of the uncertainty about the potential size of such movements in the future. It includes tables and documentation.








Childers, Erskine, and Brian Urquhart. Strengthening International Response to Humanitarian Emergencies. New York: Ford Foundation, 1991.








Two experienced former UN officials propose a comprehensive set of policy recommendations to expedite and make more effective the response of international organizations to humanitarian crises in the post-Cold War era.








Clark, Jeffrey. Famine in Somalia and the International Response: Collective Failure. Washington, DC: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1992.








This paper reviews the history of missed opportunities and strategic and operational blunders in Somalia during 1990-1992.








Cohen, Roberta. Human Rights Protection for Internally Displaced Persons. Washington, DC: Refugee Policy Group, 1991.








This report analyzes the dimensions of the human rights problems confronting people displaced within their own countries and the lack of national and international protection for these people. It proposes a






 












Page 217




number of institutional and legal changes that would improve the protection of the internally displaced.








 United Nations Human Rights Bodies: An Agenda for Humanitarian Action. Washington, DC: Refugee Policy Group, 1992.








This is an analysis of the ways in which United Nations human rights bodies can more effectively respond to the humanitarian problems of the post-Cold War period.








Forbes Martin, Susan. Emigration, Immigration and Changing EastWest Relations. Washington, DC: Refugee Policy Group, 1989.








This report examines the massive flow of refugees from Eastern Europe toward the West in 1989, the policy responses to this situation by Western countries, the movement of refugees within Eastern Europe, and the institutional and policy structures available for dealing with refugee matters.








Frelick, Bill. Croatia's Crucible: Providing Asylum for Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Washington, DC: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1992.








This report discusses the failures of the United Nations, the European Community, and the United States to respond to the humanitarian challenges in the former Yugoslavia.








Human Rights Watch. Human Rights Watch Report 1994. New York: Human Rights Watch, 1994.








This annual report by a prominent human rights organization documents human rights violations worldwide.








Jacobson, Jodi. Environmental Refugees: A Yardstick of Habitability. Washington, DC: World Watch Institute, 1988.








Throughout the world, vast areas are becoming unfit for human habitation. This report argues that the growing number of people fleeing from environmental degradation adds a new dimension to the global refugee problem.








Joly, Daniele, and Clive Nettleton. Refugees in Europe. London: Minority Rights Group, 1990.








This report offers a useful outline of some of the issues surrounding the current situation faced by refugees in Europe.






 












Page 218 




Keely, Charles. Global Refugee Policy: The Case for a Development Oriented Strategy. New York: Population Council, 1981.








This report was one of the first accounts that drew attention to the need to provide refugees with long-term development assistance rather than short-term relief assistance.








Kirk, Robin. The Decade of Chaqwa: Peru's Internal Refugees. Washington, DC: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1991.








This report describes the causes of internal displacement in Peru and the plight of indigenous populations at the center of the fighting between the government and guerrillas.








 Feeding the Tiger: Colombia's Internally Displaced People. Washington, DC: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993.








Kirk discusses the plight of internally displaced people in Colombia, the causes of their flight, and the inadequacies of the responses by Colombia and the international community.








Lawyers' Committee for International Human Rights. The Implementation of the Refugee Act of 1980: A Decade of Experience. New York: Lawyers' Committee for International Human Rights, 1990.








This is a critical review of the first ten years of U.S. asylum policy after the passage of the Refugee Act of 1980.








 Refugee Refoulement: The Forced Return of Haitians under the U.S. Haitian Interdiction Agreement. New York: Lawyers' Committee for International Human Rights, 1990.








This report discusses the U.S. policy of interdicting Haitian boat people and returning them to Port-au-Prince.








 Uncertain Haven. New York: Lawyers' Committee for International Human Rights, 1991.








A critical assessment of asylum and refugee policy in the 1980s in Asia, Africa, Latin America, Western Europe, and North America, this report also discusses the difficulties confronting the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in providing protection.








. The UNHCR at 40: Refugee Protection at the Crossroads. New York: Lawyers' Committee for International Human Rights, 1991.








This report examines the work of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) at the time of its 40th anniver-






 












Page 219




sary. It focuses on the 1980s and discusses the institutional organization of the UNHCR, recent arrangements regarding its funding and oversight by governments, and efforts to work with nongovernmental organizations.








Loescher, Gil. Forced Migration within and from the Former USSR: The Policy Challenges Ahead. Santa Monica, CA: The Rand Corporation, 1993.








This report examines displacement within the former Soviet Union and the policy challenges it poses to the West. It sets out the range of policy responses that the international community should consider in the future.








Ruiz, Hiram. Left Out in the Cold: The Perilous Homecoming of Afghan Refugees. Washington, DC: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1992.








This report analyzes the plight of Afghan refugees who have returned home following the withdrawal of Soviet forces from their country. It also documents the donor countries' poor financial support, which has left returnees, displaced people, and other war victims at risk in Afghanistan.








 Repatriation: Tackling Protection and Assistance Concerns. Washington, DC: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993.








This report discusses many of the issues surrounding the return home of refugees, in particular the problems of assisting and protecting them.








. El Retorno: Guatemalans' Risky Repatriation Begins. Washington, DC: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1993.








This documents the problems and risks associated with the repatriation of Guatemalan refugees during a time of continued conflict and political uncertainty in Guatemala.








 Uprooted Liberians: Casualties of a Brutal War. Washington, DC: U.S. Committee for Refugees, 1992.








This report reviews and analyzes the situation of Liberian refugees both inside their home country and in neighboring Sierra Leone, Guinea, and the Ivory Coast.








Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children. Balkan Trail of Tears Revisited: Living with the Nightmare. New York: International Rescue Committee, 1992.






 












Page 220 




This report on former Yugoslavia focuses on the use of rape as a weapon of war and on the current needs of refugee and internally displaced women and children.








 Going Home: the Prospect of Repatriation for Refugee Women and Children. New York: International Rescue Committee, 1992.








This report contains the proceedings of a conference held to investigate the problems that refugee women and children face when returning home after years, or sometimes decades, of war.






 












Page 221




7 Selected Nonprint Resources








Electronic Databases








By far, the best electronic databases on refugees are held by the Center for Documentation for Refugees (CDR) at the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Geneva, Switzerland. At present, access to these databases is provided to UNHCR branch offices, international organizations, nongovernmental organizations, and governments. In the United States and Canada, questions about access should be directed to the branch office of the UNHCR; the Research Information Center of the Immigration and Naturalization Service of the United States; or the Documentation, Information and Research Branch of the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada.








Some of the principal electronic databases or infobases of CDR are listed below.








EXCOM Conclusions








This database includes all of the conclusions of the Executive Committee of the UNHCR from 1975 through 1992.








REFCAS: The International Case Law Infobase








This infobase collection includes all case abstracts of higher court decisions regarding refugee matters from Canada, Belgium, France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and the United States.






 












Page 222 




REFINT: Information on Legal Issues








This infobase provides information such as whether or not a particular country is a signatory to any of the international treaties aimed at the protection of refugees and asylum-seekers, and it also includes a list of state ratifications with reservations or declarations.








REFLAP: Refugee Law and Policy








This infobase contains the full text of documents from the Division of Protection of the UNHCR and the United Nations including: (1) UNHCR Executive Committee conclusions from 1975 to 1991; (2) Internal Office Memoranda/Field Office Memoranda Protection directives from 1986 to 1992; (3) UN General Assembly resolutions; (4) UN Economic and Social Council resolutions since 1982 relating to UNHCR; (5) selected speeches of the high commissioner; and (6) internal Division of International Protection background papers on protection issues.








REFLEG: The Legislation Infobase








This infobase collection contains the full texts of national legislation worldwide on national procedures for the determination of refugee status; the acquisition and loss of citizenship; the entry, residence, and movement of aliens and displaced persons; and the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens.








REFLIT: The Refugee Literature Infobase








This database contains abstracts of literature, papers, and other documents about refugees. Individual works can be searched by author, subject, or title.








THESAURUS: The Infobase on Refugee Terminology








This infobase contains standardized terminology or keywords on issues relating to refugees.








UNDOCS: United Nations Documents and Resolutions








This infobase contains all resolutions of the UN Security Council from January 1991 to the present; all General Assembly resolutions from the 45th session (1990-1991) to the present; and selected reports submitted to the UN Commission on Human Rights from its 1992 session to the present.








WRITENET: Country Reports and Chronologies








This infobase contains reports and summaries of current events concerning refugee developments worldwide.






 












Page 223




Videotapes








VHS techonology has almost completely replaced all other forms of audiovisual materials. As a result, the following list is of VHS materials only.








This bibliography does not include costs of renting or purchasing the videos because prices change frequently. Please check with the sources for current prices. Generally, videos available from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) can be rented free of charge.








Ambassador of Goodwill









Length:



14 min.Date:1991Source:UNHCRUN PlazaNew York, NY 10017(212) 963-6200




This is a short film about the work of the UNHCR; it includes scenes from refugee camps around the world.








An American Tail









Length:



 78 min.Date:1986Source:Most video-renting establishments




This is a feature-length cartoon about mice who represent persecuted minorities in Russia escaping to New York. The film is about leaving home and adjusting to unfamiliar surroundings and culture, and it is best suited to children in the elementary grades.








Are You Listening/Indochina Refugees









Length:



60 min.Date:1982Source:Martha Stuart CommunicationsP.O. Box 2462 Anthony StreetHillside, NY 12529




This film includes interviews with Southeast Asian refugees who are resettled in the United States. They talk about their experiences of flight, life in refugee camps, and problems of resettlement.






 












Page 224 




Are You Listening/Palestinians









Length:



28 min.Date:1983Source:Martha Stuart CommunicationsP.O. Box 2462 Anthony StreetHillside, NY 12529




This video centers around the celebration of a marriage between Palestinian refugees in Paris. The marriage brings together family members from the United States, the Middle East, and Europe, and the film examines their loss of country and national identity.








Belize-Land of Refuge









Length:



20 min.Date:1988Source:UNHCRUN PlazaNew York, NY 10017(212) 963-6200




This video looks at the program in Belize that encourages refugees from El Salvador to emigrate and become members of society, living and working with the people of Belize.








Blue Collar and Buddha









Length:



57 min.Date:1990Source:Filmmakers Library, Inc.124 East 40th Street, No. 901New York, NY 10016(212) 808-4980Fax: (212) 808-4983




This video explores the problems facing Laotian refugees who have been resettled in Rockford, Illinois. They must try to strike a balance between preserving their own culture and adapting to their new environment. Their problems of readjustment have been complicated by the intolerance of their working-class neighbors.








Camino Triste: The Hard Journey of the Guatemalan Refugees









Length:



30 min.Date:1983Source:Icarus Films123 West 93rd Street, No. 5BNew York, NY 10025(212) 674-3375


 












Page 225




This documentary looks at the counterinsurgency campaign in Guatemala that caused over 100,000 Guatemalan Indians to flee to southern Mexico. It also considers the difficulties they have suffered as refugees in Mexican camps.








Central American Refugees: The Church Response









Length:



28 min.Date:1988Source:Maryknoll World Video LibraryP.O. Box 308Maryknoll, NY 10545-0308(800) 277-8523; (914) 945-0670




This video looks at the plight of Central American refugees who seek asylum in the United States, the help given them by churches, and the problems this causes with immigration authorities.








The Double Crossing: The Story of the St. Louis









Length:



29 min.Date:1992Source:Ergo Media, Inc.668 Front StreetP.O. Box 2037Teaneck, NJ 07666(201) 692-0404Fax: (201) 692-0663




This video follows the fate of the St. Louis, a ship that left Nazi Germany with over 900 Jewish refugees on board. They were refused permission to land in Cuba and in the United States and were eventually returned to Europe, where they found refuge in a number of countries.








The Exiles









Length:



116 min.Date:1989Source:Filmmakers Library Inc.124 East 40th StreetNew York, NY 10016(212) 808-4980Fax: (212) 808-4983




This video looks at the impact that intellectuals and artists who were refugees from Nazism have had on American culture. It traces their fates through interviews, reinactments, and historical film footage.








From Survival to Adaptation: The Adolescent Refugee Experience









Length:



 22 min.


 












Page 226 





Date:



 1988Source:The International Counseling Center3000 Connecticut AvenueWashington, DC 20008




This video is not only useful as a training film but also for general audiences. It gives insight into the particular problems and hopes of adolescents who are also refugees. It includes interviews with young people in the United States who are refugees from Afghanistan, Cambodia, El Salvador, Laos, and Vietnam.








Guatemala: Roads of Silence









Length:



59 min.Date:1988Source:Cinema Guild1697 Broadway, Suite 802New York, NY 10019(212) 246-5522




This video gives an idea of what life is like for rural indigenous peoples in Guatemala who choose not to become refugees. They refuse to live under the thumb of the military and develop their own mobile communities in which they carry on their lives as normally as possible.








The Holocaust As Seen through the Eyes of a Survivor









Length:



30 min.Date:1989Source:AIMS Media6901 Woodley AvenueVan Nuys, CA 91406




This video is aimed at junior high and high school students. It gives a general historical background and attempts to show the horrors of the Holocaust through the story of one man who survived it. It involves the audience through questions and activities.








I Miss the Sun









Length:



22 min.Date:1984Source:Mary Halawani151 JoralemonBrooklyn, NY 11201




This is a personal account of life in exile told around family celebrations of Passover. The person at the center of the story is an Egyptian-Jewish woman living in Brooklyn, New York. Like many other exiles, she took her culture with her when she resettled.






 












Page 227




In Prison for Freedom









Length:



15 min.Date:1989Source:Refugee Voices3041 34th Street, NEWashington, DC 20017




This video shows what life is like for Vietnamese boat people who have been incarcerated in detention centers in Hong Kong.








Legacy of Tears









Length:



54 min.Date:1987Source:University Film and VideoUniversity of Minnesota1313 Fifth Street, SE, Suite 108Minneapolis, MN 55414




This video offers a comprehensive history of how the Hmong gave the Americans valuable assistance during the Vietnam War. It goes on to look at the problems the Hmong faced when they fled to the United States.








Let Us Tell You









Length:



30 min.Date:1988Source:UNHCRLiaison Office to UN HeadquartersUN PlazaNew York, NY 10017(212) 963-6200




This video relates the plights of victims of conflicts in Southern Africa. It looks at the economic problems faced by the area's frontline states and the urgent need for international assistance. There is also a consideration of the prospects for long-term solutions to the region's humanitarian crisis.








Make a Little Difference









Length:



15 min.Date:1991Source:UNHCRLiaison Office to UN HeadquartersUN PlazaNew York, NY 10017(212) 963-6200


 












Page 228 




This short video allows children from four continents to tell of their experiences as refugees and to give their advice on how to end the world's refugee problems.








Moving Mountains: The Story of the Yiu Mien









Length:



58 min.Date:1989Source:Filmmakers Library, Inc.124 East 40th Street, No. 901New York, NY 10016(212) 808-4980Fax: (212) 808-4983




This video looks at the lives of Laotian Yiu Mien, who were refugees from Laos after the Vietnam War, and discusses the problems they faced when they were resettled in the United States.








Mozambique-An Uprooted People









Length:



30 min.Date:1991Source:Refugee Voices3041 Fourth Street, NEWashington, DC 20017




This video looks at the civil war in Mozambique and discusses the refugee flows into the neighboring countries of South Africa and Zambia.








Namibia: The Challenge To Come









Length:



27 min.Date:1990Source:UNHCRLiaison Office to UN HeadquartersUN PlazaNew York, NY 10017(212) 963-6200




This half-hour film gives a graphic and moving account of Namibian refugees' return to their homeland. It describes the challenges confronting them as they settle into a new life in an independent Namibia.








New Americans









Length:



25 min.Date:1980Source:Coordinator of Information Services and Special ProjectsBureau of Refugee Services1200 University Avenue, Suite DDes Moines, IA 50314-2330


 












Page 229




Though somewhat dated, this video is useful because it looks at the major cultural groups of Southeast Asia and the particular problems children from these groups have in adjusting to life in the United States, especially at school.








New Underground Railroad









Length:



30 min.Date:1983Source:Indiana UniversityAudio-Visual CenterBloomington, IN 47405




This video follows a Salvadoran family as they travel secretly along the new underground railroad to a place of safety in Madison, Wisconsin. A group of dedicated church people consider whether or not to break the law by offering sanctuary to illegal immigrants who are refugees from persecution.








Nobody Listened









Length:



117 min.Date:1989Source:Direct CinemaP.O. Box 69589Los Angeles, CA 90069




This video looks at political oppression in Cuba through interviews with refugees.








El Norte









Length:



130 min.Date:1983Source:Cinecom Films7 West 36th StreetNew York, NY 10018




This feature-length film is suitable for high school students as well as adults. It tells the story of a sister and brother who escape political violence in Guatemala, travel through Mexico, and enter the United States as illegal aliens. It vividly illustrates the dangers and disappointments such refugees face.








One Year Later









Length:



11 min.Date:1989Source:UNRWAUN Building, Room DC2-0550New York, NY 10017(212) 963-2255


 












Page 230 




This video looks at the difficult lives led by refugees in Jerusalem one year after the intifada uprising.








Open Window: Cambodian Refugee Family









Length:



46 min.Date:1990Source:Georgia Mutual Assistance Association Consortium535 Central Avenue, Suite 103Hapeville, GA 30354




This video invites the viewer into the home of a Cambodian refugee family living in the United States. Through interviews, they tell about their experiences.








Pieces of Dreams









Length:



15 min.Date:1991Source:UNHCRLiaison Office to UN HeadquartersUN PlazaNew York, NY 10017(212) 963-6200




This video was made as a training film by UNHCR for people doing fieldwork. It is the case study of a Mozambican family that fled to safety in Zambia.








A Promise To Keep









Length:



9 min.Date:1991Source:UNHCRLiaison Office to UN HeadquartersUN PlazaNew York, NY 10017(212) 963-6200




A training film for people working with refugee children, this short video looks at the particular needs of refugee children. It also shows them to be like children the world over.








Que se callen las armas









Length:



46 min.Date:1989Source:UNHCRLiaison Office to UN HeadquartersUN PlazaNew York, NY 10017(212) 963-6200


 












Page 231




This video focuses on the problems faced by Central American countries resulting from massive refugee movements there in recent years. It looks at the various government and UNHCR programs working for refugees who have chosen to return home.








Refugees









Length:



25 min., 28 min., 15 min., 40 min.Date:1987Source:UNHCRLiaison Office to UN HeadquartersUN PlazaNew York, NY 10017(212) 963-6200




This is a series of four films, each of which focuses on individual lives that are representative of those of refugees from their countries. Africa, a 25-minute film, tells the stories of two people-Seife, an Eritrean, and Lister, from South Africa. They recount their lives as refugees. Asia, a 28-minute film, focuses on the lives of refugees from Kampuchea and Afghanistan. Kol-som is a Kampuchean refugee living in a camp in Thailand; Afriday is an Afghan refugee living in a camp near Peshawar, Pakistan. Central America is a 15-minute film that follows Rufina, a Salvadoran, as she tells of her experiences as a refugee and of life at the Colomoncagua refugee camp in Honduras. Refugee Children, a 40-minute film, follows the lives of three young refugees. It listens to the hopes of Fatima from Chad, living in a camp in western Sudan; of Antonio and Maria, orphans from Guatemala who managed to escape to Mexico; and of Nhue, a Vietnamese girl who lives with her mother and sisters in a camp in Hong Kong.








Refugees in Our Backyard









Length:



58 min.Date:1990Source:First Run/Icarus Films123 West 93rd Street, No. 5BNew York, NY 10025(212) 674-3375




This film deals with the migration of Central Americans to the United States. It looks at the causes of migration and means of entering the United States illegally. It considers recent legislation regarding the problem and the legal and humanitarian efforts to help migrants.








A Religion in Retreat









Length:



13 min.Date: 1986


 












Page 232





Source: 



University Film and VideoUniversity of Minnesota1313 Fifth Street, SE, Suite 108Minneapolis, MN 55414




Though somewhat dated, this video gives a good background for understanding the persecution faced by Asian Buddhists, which caused so many of them to flee countries such as Cambodia in the 1970s and 1980s.








Samsara









Length:



28 min.Date:1989Source:University Film and VideoUniversity of Minnesota1313 Fifth Street, SE, Suite 108Minneapolis, MN 55414




This film is suitable for older high school students and adults. It explores the culture of Cambodia, looking at the effect of protracted war on the lives of the Khmer people.








Serving with a Purpose









Length:



25 min.Date:1990Source:UNRWAUN Building, Room DC2-0550New York, NY 10017(212) 963-2255




This video vividly presents a chronological account of the Palestinian experience from 1948 to 1990.








Since 1951









Length:



27 min.Date:1987Source:UNHCRLiaison Office to UN HeadquartersUN PlazaNew York, NY 10017(212) 963-6200




This film tells the story of the UNHCR. It looks at its role, its work, and the causes of the evolution of the current refugee situation in the world, along with different ways of resolving it.








The Sun and the Night









Length:



26 min.


 












Page 233





Date:



1990Source:Indiana UniversityAudio-Visual CenterBloomington, IN 47405




This video looks at the work of the UNHCR through daily operations at refugee camps in Thailand and eastern Sudan.








A Time To Weep









Length:



56 min.Date:1989Source:Indiana UniversityAudio-Visual CenterBloomington, IN 47405




This video looks at the plight of Ethiopians who have been displaced by the protracted civil war and drought in their own country and who seek refuge in eastern Sudan.








To Be an American









Length:



50 min.Date:1989Source:MTI Film & Video108 Wilmot RoadDeerfield, IL 60015(800) 621-2131; (708) 940-1260




Tom Brokaw hosts this video of a television program, originally broadcast 15 August 1989, about the lives of Cambodian refugees successfully resettled in New England after fleeing repression and torture under the Khmer Rouge.








UNHCR: A Global View









Length:



16 min.Date:1992Source:UNHCRLiaison Office to UN HeadquartersUN PlazaNew York, NY 10017(212) 963-6200




This video looks at UNHCR operations around the world and the ways in which it is dealing with the growing refugee crisis. It includes a look at recent successful repatriation programs.








Voyage of Dreams









Length:



30 min.


 












Page 234 





Date:



1983Source:Cinema Guild1697 Broadway, Suite 802New York, NY 10019(212) 246-5522




This video focuses on the Haitian boat people and their reasons for fleeing the regime in Haiti and attempting to enter the United States. It looks at U.S. policy toward Haiti and at life in that impoverished country. It was made jointly by Haitian and American film artists.








Voyage of the Damned









Length:



137 min.Date:1992Source:LIVE Home Video, Inc.25935 Detroit Road, Suite 294Westlake, OH 44145(216) 892-6826Fax: (216) 835-9201




This is a feature film made in 1976, starring Faye Dunaway, Max von Sydow, Orson Welles, James Mason, Katharine Ross, and Ben Gazzara, among others. It tells the story of a shipload of refugees from Nazi Germany who are refused permission to land in Cuba.








Waiting for Cambodia









Length:



58 min.Date:1988Source:PBS Video1320 Braddock PlaceAlexandria, VA 22314-1698.(800) 424-7963; (703) 739-5380Fax: (703) 739-8938




This video documents the work of the United Nations Border Relief Organization (UNBRO) at a refugee camp on the Thai-Cambodian border. It shows the living conditions of the inhabitants and looks at the prospects for their future. It also looks at the historical background of the refugee problems in the area.








Wall and Bridge









Length:



18 min.Date:1988Source:Rhode Island Office of Refugee Resettlement275 Westminster MallProvidence, RI 02903


 












Page 235




This video was made particularly for use in schools to help promote understanding between Americans and people from other ethnic and cultural backgrounds.








Women at Risk









Length:



56 min.Date:1990Source:Filmmakers Library, Inc.124 East 40th Street, No. 901New York, NY 10016(212) 808-4980Fax: (212) 808-4983




This video was produced in collaboration with UNHCR and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). It looks at the cases of three women living in refugee camps in different parts of the world and the hardships they must endure.








Yellow Tale Blues: Two American Families









Length:



30 min.Date:1990Source:Filmmakers Library, Inc.124 East 40th Street, No. 901New York, NY 10016(212) 808-4980Fax: (212) 808-4983




This video is useful for multicultural curriculum at the high school and college levels. It looks at elements of prejudice against Asians in the United States through interviews with members of two Asian-American families and through clips from Hollywood films.






 












Page 237




Glossary








A








assimilation Total acceptance of immigrants by a host society and their absorption into that society.








asylum The protection given by one country to refugees from another. First-country asylum refers to a country granting a refugee first or temporary asylum. Third-country asylum refers to a country granting permanent asylum to a refugee transferring or resettling from a first country of asylum.








asylum-seeker Someone who has fled from his or her home country and is seeking refugee status in another country.








B








B-status Used in Scandinavian and some other European countries to grant a form of temporary asylum.








boat people Haitians, Vietnamese, Somalis, Albanians, or others relying on ocean voyages in small boats to emigrate. Frequently such people are denied asylum.








border camp A refugee camp or settlement situated along the borders between a host country and country of origin.








brain drain Emigration of highly qualified persons, also known as reverse transfer of technology and transfer of talent.








burden-sharing Sharing of responsibilities by states in funding refugee programs or admitting refugees for resettlement.








C








carrier sanctions Fines or other sanctions inflicted on airlines or other transport firms for knowingly carrying international passengers lacking visas or other documentation.








citizenship Legal granted status as a member of a particular nationality, obtained through birth and registration or through a procedure of nationalization prescribed by national authorities.






 












Page 238




D








deportation Act of sending people back home or to another country against their will.








durable solution Permanent settlement of refugees, whether through repatriation to their homeland, resettlement in a third country, or settlement in the first country of asylum. The term is used by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.








E








early warning Attempts and methods to detect a possible refugee exodus and to take appropriate measures to avoid or minimize it.








economic migrant Someone who has left his or her home to look for better work and a higher standard of living in another place.








emigration Act of leaving one country or region to settle in another.








environmental refugee Person displaced by natural disaster, such as drought, deforestation, or other environmental degradation.








ethnic cleansing Forcible expulsion of one ethnic group from an area and their replacement by another ethnic group.








ethnic minority A group of people who share a distinctive culture, usually different from the culture of the majority of people in a region.








expatriate Person who leaves his or her homeland and establishes temporary residence in another country. Also known as professional transient.








expulsion Forced removal of legal and undocumented foreigners.








externally displaced person Someone who is displaced from his or her residence and forced to seek refuge across national borders.








F








family reunification Highest preference in many countries for legal immigration of divided spouses, siblings, or other family members.








feet-people Term used for emigrants from Central America headed north by foot and bus to Mexico and the United States.








forced migration Compelling refugees or other persons to migrate by massive coercion. May also refer to internally displaced persons moving as a result of political violence or natural disasters. Also referred to as involuntary migration.








freedom of movement The right to leave and return to one's country as well as to enter another country.








G








genocide The deliberate and systematic murder of one ethnic or religious group.






 












Page 239




I








illegal immigrant A person who has entered a country without the proper legal documentation or permission.








immigration The act of entering a country with the intention of settling there.








immigration preferences Criteria used to select immigrants by host countries, e.g. family reunification, skills.








integration policy Policy to provide immigrants with equal status as citizens without their having to relinquish previous ethnic or other identities.








interagency cooperation Actions taken by international agencies like UNHCR and UNDP to work more closely together.








interdiction The act of intercepting boatloads of refugees and returning them to their homeland. One example is the U.S. Coast Guard program against Haitian boat people in the 1990s.








intergovernmental organization An international organization containing representatives of national governments.








internal conflict A war or dispute that takes place within the borders of a country.








internal migration The movement of people from one part of a country to another, usually for economic reasons.








internally displaced person Someone who is forcibly displaced from his or her place of residence but remains within the country.








international conflict A war that takes place between two or more countries.








international humanitarian law The laws and conventions that regulate the conduct of parties at war, including the treatment of prisoners of war and noncombatants or civilians. Also known as the Geneva Conventions, international humanitarian law is implemented by the International Committee of the Red Cross.








international migration The movement of people across national borders, usually for economic reasons.








international refugee law The laws and conventions that regulate the treatment and protection of refugees. They are implemented by the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.








irregular migration A population movement, not regulated by agreements between governments, that occurs outside of the normal state-tostate migration.






 












Page 240




L








local settlement The integration of refugees in the societies and economies of host countries.








M








manifestly unfounded asylum application An application for political asylum in which there is no credible evidence of persecution against the applicant. Sometimes referred to as abusive applications.








man-made disaster A disaster that occurs as a result of the actions of man, such as war, persecution, human rights abuses, and sometimes famines.








mass expulsion The sudden forced displacement of large numbers of people across borders, usually as a result of war or persecution. Sometimes referred to as mass exodus.








migrant worker A person, sometimes recruited, who is seeking employment for temporary periods in another country. Known also as guestworkers, contract workers, temporary workers, and braceros (the Spanish term for unskilled workers).








migration The permanent movement of people from one place to another.








minority group People of the same ethnic, religious, or racial background whose numbers are not large enough to form a majority in a country or region.








mojado Spanish term for wetback, a person who illegally enters the United States by crossing the Rio Grande River.








N








natural disaster A disaster that occurs as a result of natural causes, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, and typhoons.








naturalization Procedure whereby the foreign-born can acquire the nationality and citizenship of another country.








nongovernmental organization (NGO) A private rather than governmental organization. A number of NGOs, such as the International Committee of the Red Cross and Oxfam, work with refugees.








nonrefoulement From the French refouler, this is a policy of the 1951 UN Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees that commits contracting states to not expel or return a refugee whose life or freedom would be threatened due to race, religion, membership of a social group, or political opinion. It does not protect persons denied asylum who are regularly deported.






 












Page 241




O








orderly departure Official procedure for resettling refugees directly from a country of origin to a third country of permanent resettlement, e.g., Vietnamese from Vietnam to the United States. May also refer to a fixed departure schedule for legal emigrants.








P








persecution Unjust harassment, including threats of death or imprisonment, usually used for political, religious, or racial reasons.








prejudice Negative and unfavorable feelings about a group of people that are not based on knowledge or fact.








pull factors Forces in a country of destination, such as a higher standard of living, jobs, or freer communities, that attract people to the country. Pull factors are sometimes regarded as the variables that explain international voluntary migration.








push factors Negative forces, such as conflict, political instability, social inequalities, or poor economic opportunities, that compel people to leave their countries.








Q








quota Number of immigrants, refugees, or asylum-seekers allowed in by a receiving state under their immigration policies. Usually decided on such terms as ethnic background, race, or nationality.








R








racism A belief that people of a certain race or ethnic group are generally inferior or superior.








receiving country A country that receives incoming refugees.








reception policy State policy regarding the admission and integration of incoming refugees.








refugee Person who has left his or her country of origin and has a well-founded fear of persecution if they return (according to the 1951 UN Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees).








refugee camp A temporary settlement established to receive and house refugees, frequently along the borders of the state from which they have fled.








refugee impact The economic and social effects in local communities of receiving countries that come from accepting an influx of refugees.








refugee in transit Refugee who is still in the process of flight from a home country to a country of asylum.






 












Page 242




refugee participation The roles that refugees themselves might play in determining programs directed at them or in determining their own futures.








refugee-warrior Armed guerrilla who lives in or close to a refugee camp, e.g. Afghans in Pakistan, Cambodians in Thailand.








rehabilitation The reconstruction or rebuilding of a country's economy and social infrastructure after a war.








remittance Money sent home from abroad, generally by a migrant worker or other international migrant.








repatriation Returning a person to his or her home country. People can be forced to go against their will (forcible repatriation) or they can go voluntarily.








resettlement The transfer of refugees from a first country of asylum to a third country of permanent resettlement, e.g. Laotians from Thailand to the United States.








return migration The voluntary return of immigrants, migrant workers, or other persons to their country of origin.








root causes The underlying causes of refugee flight, such as political persecution or conflict.








rural/urban migration The internal migration of people from the countryside to cities, usually for economic reasons.








S








safe haven Temporary asylum subject to restrictions, e.g., Temporary Protected Status in the United States. Safe haven asylum may or may not allow persons to seek employment, housing, and welfare benefits.








sovereignty The right of a state to exist and to make its own decisions without external interference or intervention.








stateless persons Individuals who have been denied national identity documents or have had them removed. After World War I, the League of Nations created special passports, called Nansen passports, for such persons.








self-determination The act of a national group deciding its own political future.








T








temporary protected status Legal status used in the United States to give asylum-seekers of certain nationalities permission to temporarily reside in the country and to seek employment.








Third World The developing countries of Africa, Asia, and Latin America.






 












Page 243




travel documents Passports and visas.








U








undocumented alien Person whose status does not meet a host country's legal conditions for immigration. Undocumented aliens are also known as illegal aliens, illegals, and irregular migrants.








unrecognized refugee A person rejected by a government as a refugee on the grounds that the primary motive for migration is economic. The term often refers to Haitian and Vietnamese boat people. The UNHCR at times screens the decisions of national immigration officials to determine whether or not applicant motives are primarily economic.








V








visa A stamp on a passport that allows a person to enter a particular country.








voluntary/involuntary migration The distinction between forced migration and all other types of international migration, including migration for economic reasons.






 












Page 245




Acronyms of Organizations and Programs








ACNS American Council for Nationalities Service








AFSC American Friends Service Committee








AI Amnesty International








ARC American Refugee Committee








ARLP Alien Rights Law Project, Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights under Law








ASEAN Association of South East Asian Nations








BRP Department of State, Bureau for Refugee Programs








CDC Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention








CDR Centre for Documentation of Refugees








CIPRA Georgetown University Center for Immigration Policy and Refugee Assistance








CIS Commonwealth of Independent States








CMS Center for Migration Services








CPA Comprehensive Plan of Action for Indochinese Refugees








CRS Catholic Relief Services








CSCE Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe








DHA Department of Humanitarian Affairs of the United Nations








EC European Community








ECOSOC Economic and Social Council of the United Nations






 












Page 246 




ECOWAS Economic Community of West African States








ECRE European Council on Refugees and Exiles








EU European Union








HIAS Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society








ICMC International Catholic Migration Commission








ICRC International Committee of the Red Cross








ICVA International Council of Voluntary Agencies








ILO International Labor Organization








INS Department of Justice, Immigration and Naturalization Service








IOM International Organization for Migration








IRC International Rescue Committee








JDC American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee








JRS Jesuit Refugee Service








LCHR Lawyers Committee for Human Rights








LIRS Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service








NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization








NCC National Council of Churches








NCHR National Coalition for Haitian Refugees








NGO Nongovernmental organization








OAS Organization of American States








OAU Organization of African Unity








ODP Orderly Departure Program








OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development








ORR Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Refugee Resettlement








RPG Refugee Policy Group








RSP Refugee Studies Programme








RefWID Refugee Women in Development






 












Page 247




SARRED International Conference on the Plight of Refugees, Returnees and Displaced Persons in Southern Africa








SEARAC South East Asia Resource Action Center








SAWSO The Salvation Army World Service Office








UN United Nations








UNDP United Nations Development Program








UNHCR United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees








UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund








UNOSAL United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador








UNPROFOR United Nations Protection Force








UNRWA United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East








UNTAC United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia








USCC/MRS United States Catholic Conference/Migration and Refugee Service








USCR United States Committee for Refugees








WCC World Council of Churches








WEU Western European Union








WFP World Food Program of the United Nations








WHO World Health Organization of the United Nations






 












Page 249




Index








A








The Abandonment of the Jews: America and the Holocaust, 215








Abkhazia, 39








Adelman, Howard, 200








Afghanistan, 11, 33, 38, 219








Africa. 








See specific countries








Africa, 231








Africa: Human Rights Directory and Bibliography, 177-178, 197








African Charter on Human and People's Rights, 154








African Refugees: Reflections on the African Refugee Problem, 206








Africare, Inc., 170








AFSC (American Friends Service Committee), 171








After the Wars: Reconstruction in Afghanistan, Indochina, Central America, Southern Africa and the Horn of Africa, 207








Aguayo, Sergio, 215








Aitchison, Jean, 195








Albania, 5








Algeria, 30, 32








Alien Rights Law Project (ARLP), 170-171








Allende, Salvador, 31








Ambassador of Goodwill, 223








American Convention on Human Rights, 154-155








American Council for Nationalities Service (ACNS), 167, 186








American Council for Voluntary Agencies in Foreign Service (ACVA), 29








American Friends Service Committee (AFSC), 171








American Immigrant Lawyers Association, 195








American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, Inc. (JDC), 171








American Jewish Philanthropic Fund, 171








American Red Cross, 171-172








American Refugee Committee (ARC), 172








An American Tail, 223








Amnesty International (AI), 19, 172, 216








Amnesty International Report 1994, 216








The Anatomy of Disaster Relief: The International Network in Action, 206








Angola, 32, 36








An Annotated Bibliography on Refugee Mental Health, 200








Anticolonial struggles, 8, 30, 31








Arafat, Yasir, 42








Are You Listening/Indochina Refugees, 223








Are You Listening/Palestinians, 224








Argentina, 32








Aristide, Jean-Bertrand, 5, 37








Armenian Assembly of America, 173








Armenians, 2, 39, 173








Asia, 231








Association for the Study of the World Refugee Problem, 189








Asylum Seekers and Refugees: A Statistical Report, 197








Asylum-seekers, 3, 8, 12-13








chronology, 31- 38








Eastern Europe, 13, 36, 66-67, 217






 












Page 250




Asylum-seekers (continued)








international law, 32, 129-131, 195








need for commitment to, 24-25








resources, 195, 197, 207, 208-209, 210








statistics, 66








An Atlas of International Migration, 198-199








Australia, 207








AWR Bulletin, 189








Azerbaijan, 2, 39








B








Baker, Ron, 200








Balkan Trail of Tears Revisited: Living with the Nightmare, 187, 219-220








Bangladesh, 2, 31,32, 39








Barre, Siad, 37








Basic Documents on International Migration Law, 212








Basoglu, Metin, 200








BelizeLand of Refuge, 224








Benin, 38








Berlin Institute for Comparative Social Research, 195








Berlin Institute for Social Research, 191








Beyond Borders: Refugees, Migrants and Human Rights in the Post-Cold War Era, 202








Beyond Borders: West European Migration Policy towards the 21st Century, 201








Beyond Charity: International Cooperation and the Global Refugee Crisis, 208








Bhutan, 2, 38








Bibliography of International Humanitarian Law Applicable in Armed Conflicts, 198








Bibliography on Refugee Children, 199








Bibliography on Refugee Women, 199








Bibliography Prepared for the Excom Working Group on Solutions and Protection, 199








The Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem, 1947-1949, 211








Blue Collar and Buddha, 224








Boat People S.O.S., Inc., 173








B6ll, Heinrich, 7








Bonhoeffer, Dietrich, 42-43








Bosnia, 9, 14, 22. 








See also Former Yugoslavia








Boutros-Ghali, Boutros, 25








Boyer, Laura M., 196








Bramwell, Anna, 200








Brandt, Willy, 43








Bread for the World Institute on Hunger and Development, 201








Brecht, Bertolt, 43








Brown, Roger, 210








Bulgaria, 27








Bureau for Refugee Programs (BRP), 166, 194








Burma, 2, 32, 39








Burr, Millard, 216








Burundi, 2, 30, 31, 36, 39








C








Cahill, Kevin, 201








Calculated Kindness: Refugees and America's Half Open Door, 1945-Present, 209








Cambodia, 9, 11, 21, 22, 32, 34








resources, 201, 210, 213, 230, 231-232, 233, 234








Cameroon, 32, 33








Camino Triste: The Hard Journey of the Guatemalan Refugees, 224-225








Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), 235








CARE, 173-174








Cartagena Declaration on International Protection of Refugees in Central America, Mexico, and Panama 1984), 3, 35, 150-151








Catholic Relief Services (CRS), 174








CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention), 165








Center for Applied Linguistics, 174








Center for Documentation on Refugees, 193








Center for Migration Studies (CMS), 174-175, 190, 191








Center for the Study of Human Rights (Columbia University), 196








Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 165






 












Page 251




Central America, 3, 21, 33, 35, 175, 196, 208, 225, 230-231. 








See also specific countries








Central America, 231








Central America Refugee Policy Research Project, 196








Central American Refugees: The Church Response, 225








Centre for Documentation on Refugees (CDR), 159, 193, 199








Centre for Refugee Studies, 192








Chad, 34








Chagall, Marc, 44-45








Cherne, Leo, 50








Chesnais, Jean-Claude, 216








Childers, Erskine, 216








Children of the River, 201








Chile, 31








China, 33, 49-50








Church World Service, 51-52, 167, 191-192








Civil wars. See Internal conflicts








Clark, Jeffrey, 216








Clinton, Bill, 40








Closed Borders: The Contemporary Assault on Freedom of Movement, 202








Cohen, Roberta, 216-217








Cold War, 8, 17, 205-206








end of, 1, 9, 13, 36








Collection of International Instruments concerning Refugees, 149-150, 199








Collinson, Sarah, 201








Colombia, 36, 218








Colson, Elizabeth, 211








Communications advances, 8








Conclusions on the International Protection of Refugees Adopted by the Executive Committee on International Protection of Refugees of the UNHCR Program, 199








Conference on Indochinese Refugees, 34








Conference on Southeast Asia, 36








Conference to Review Draft Convention on Territorial Asylum, 33








Convention Concerning the Status of Refugees Coming from Germany, 28








Convention Determining the State Responsible for Examining Applications for Asylum Lodged in One of the Member States of the European Community, 151








Convention Governing the Specific Aspects of Refugee Problems in Africa (OAU), 3, 31, 132-139








Convention on Diplomatic Asylum (1954), 143-149








Convention on Territorial Asylum (1954), 139-143








Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, 154








Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness, 150








Convention on the Rights of the Child, 154








Convention Relating to the International Status of Refugees, 28








Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees ( 195 1), 2, 3- 5, 30, 36, 98-124, 152








Protocol (1967), 31, 124-129








Convention Relating to the Status of Stateless Persons, 150








Copeland, Emily, 212








Coping with Africa's Refugee Burden: A Time for Solutions, 204








Costa Rica, 37








Covenant against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, 153-154








Crew, Linda, 201








Croatia. See Former Yugoslavia








Croatia's Crucible: Providing Asylum for Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, 217








Cuba, 34, 40,229








Cultural Survival, Inc., 175








Cuny, Frederick, 208








Cyprus, 32








Czechoslovakia, 31








D








Dalai Lama, 49-50








Damrosch, Lori, 202








Davies, Julian, 196






 












Page 252




The Decade of Chaqwa: Peru's Internal Refugees, 218








Declaration on Territorial Asylum, 31, 129-131








Deng, Francis, 156, 202








Department of Health and Human Services, 165








Deportation, 2-3








DeVecchi, Robert P., 50-51








Development, 21-22








DHA (UN Department of Humanitarian Affairs), 20-21, 38, 155, 163








The Diary of a Young Girl, 203








Direct Relief International, 175








Directory of Current Research on Refugee and Other Forced Migrants, 184








Directory of Non-Governmental Organizations, 200








The Directory of Research on Refugees and Other Forced Migrants, 198








Disasters, 185








Displaced People and Refugees: A Resource Guide, 184








Displaced Peoples and Refugee Studies, A Resource Guide, 196








Displaced Persons: Calwell's New Australians, 207








Djibouti, 33








Documentation Exchange, Refugee Legal Support Service (RLSS), 175








The Double Crossing: The Story of the St. Louis, 225








Dowty, Alan, 202








Druke, Louise, 202








Dublin Convention, 151








E








Early warning systems, 18-20








Eastern Europe, 13, 36, 66-67, 205-206, 217. See also specific countries








EC (European Community), 151








Economic migrants, 3, 4-5








Einstein, Albert, 45








El Retorno: Guatemalan s' Risky Repatriation Begins, 219








El Salvador, 22, 33, 37, 224, 229








Eliasson, Jan, 20








Emergency action, 14, 16, 37, 155-156








Emigration, Immigration and Changing East-West Relations, 217








Enforcing Restraint: Collective Intervention in Internal Conflicts, 202








Ennals, Martin, 179








Environmental Refugees: A Yardstick of Habitability, 217








Episcopal Migration Ministries, 167-168








Equatorial Guinea, 32








Eritrean Relief and Rehabilitation Association (ERRA), 176








Eritrean Relief Committee, Inc., 175-176








Eritreans, 175-176








Eronstat, 197








Escape from Violence: Conflict and the Refugee Crises in the Developing World, 215








Esquipulas II peace plan, 36








Ethiopia, 1, 9, 11, 176, 233








refugees from, 33, 35








refugees in, 35, 36, 37








The Ethiopian Community Development Council, Inc., 176








Ethnic conflicts, 9. See also specific conflicts and areas








Europe and International Migration, 201








European Community (EC), 151








European Convention for Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, 155








European Council on Refugees and Exiles (ECRE), 57,160








Evian-les-Bains conference, 28








EXCOM Conclusions, 221








The Exiles, 225








Exodus World Service, 176








F








Facing History and Ourselves: Holocaust and Human Behavior, 213 -214








Famine in Somalia and the International Response: Collective Failure, 216








Feeding the Tiger: Colombia's Internally Displaced People, 218








Fenton, Thomas, 197








Fermi, Enrico, 45-46








Ferris, Elizabeth G., 51-52, 202








Forbes Martin, Susan, 202-203, 217






 












Page 253




Forced Migration: Policy Issues in the Post-Cold War World, 212








Forced Migration within and from the Former USSR: The Policy Challenges Ahead, 219








Former Yugoslavia, 1, 9, 19, 22, 67, 217








UNHCR role in, 11, 14, 37, 38-39








Fourth Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, 150








A Framework for Survival: Health, Human Rights, and Humanitarian Assistance in Conflicts and Disasters, 201








Frank, Anne, 203








Frelick, Bill, 217








Freud, Sigmund, 46








From Survival to Adaptation: The Adolescent Refugee Experience, 225-226








G








Gabon, 32








Gallagher, Dennis, 203








Georgetown University Center for Immigration Policy and Refugee Assistance (CIPRA), 176-177








Georgia, 39








German Literature on Flight and Asylum, 195








Germany, 28, 30, 39








unification, 8-9, 36








Germany, Federal Republic of, 30








Ghana, 38








Gibney, Mark, 203








Global Refugee Policy: The Case for a Development Oriented Strategy, 218








The Global Refugee Problem: U.S. and World Response, 209- 210








Going Home: The Prospect of Repatriation for Refugee Women and Children, 220








Goodwin-Gill, Guy, 150, 203








Gordenker, Leon, 203-204








Gorman, R. F., 204








Graeco-Turkish War (1922), 27








Grahl-Madsen, Atle, 204








Grassroots International, 177








Greece, 27








The Guarded Gate: The Reality of American Refugee Policy, 215








Guatemala, 33, 36, 54, 219, 224-225, 229








Guatemala: Roads of Silence, 226








Guinea, 37








Guinea-Bissau, 32








Gulf War, 37








H








Haiti, 4-5, 33, 37, 182








U.S. policies, 37, 39, 40, 218, 233-234








Hakovirta, H., 204








Hammond, Ruth E., 197








Hannum, H., 204








Hansen, Art, 204








Harrell-Bond, Barbara, 205








Hathaway, James, 205








Hebrew Immigration Aid Society, Inc. (HIAS), 168








Heffron, Mary, 197








Helsinki Watch, 19








Helton, Arthur Cleveland, 52








Hendricks, Glenn L., 197








High Commissioner for Refugees Coming from Germany, 28








High Commissioner for Refugees under the Protection of the League of Nations, 28








The History of UNRRA, 215








Hitchcox, Linda, 205








Hmong, 227








Holborn, Louise W., 205








Holm, Anne, 205-206








Holocaust. See Nazism; World War II








The Holocaust As Seen through the Eyes of a Survivor, 226








Holt International Children's Services, Inc., 177








Honduras, 35, 37








House Committee on UnAmerican Activities, 44








House Judiciary Committee, 166








Human rights, 12, 17, 22-24








and internally displaced persons, 23,156-157,216-217








international law, 29, 152-155








See also specific organizations and topics








Human Rights: A Topical Biography, 196






 












Page 254




Human Rights Bibliography: United Nations Documents and Publications, 1980-1990, 150, 196








Human Rights Directory: Eastern Europe, 197








Human Rights Directory: Latin America and the Caribbean, 197








Human Rights Directory: North America, 198








Human Rights Directory: Western Europe, 198








Human Rights Internet, 177-178, 190, 197-198








Human Rights Internet Reporter, 177-178, 190








Human Rights Observer, 182








Human Rights Protection for Internally Displaced Persons, 216-217








Human Rights Quarterly, 177-178, 190








Human Rights Watch, 178, 217








Human Rights Watch Report, 1994, 217








Humanitarian Action in Times of War, 210








Hungary, 31, 36








Hunger 1993: Uprooted People, 201








I








I Miss the Sun, 226








Immigrants and Minorities, 190








Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), 166, 193








The Implementation of the Refugee Act of 1980: A Decade of Experience, 218








Imposing Aid: Emergency Assistance to Refugees, 205








In Prison for Freedom, 227








Independent Commission on International Humanitarian Issues, 206








India, 29, 31








Indochina. See Southeast Asia








The Indochinese Refugee Dilemma, 214








Indonesia, 34








INS (Immigration and Naturalization Service), 166, 193








INS Reporter, 193








Institute for Education and Advocacy, 178








InterAction (American Council for Voluntary International Action), 178-179








Interagency Standing Committee, 156








Inter-American Specialized Conference on Human Rights, 154








Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration, 30








Inter-Governmental Committee for Migration, 156








Intergovernmental Committee on Refugees (IGCR), 28








Internal conflicts, 9, 14, 15. See also specific conflicts and areas








Internally displaced persons, 4, 10-11,63, 155








and human rights, 23, 156-157, 216-217








resources, 202, 216-217








International Alert, 179








International Bibliography of Refugee Literature, 198








International Catholic Migration Commission (ICMC), 179








International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), 5, 15, 156, 160








publications, 190, 198








International Conference on Central American Refugees (CIREFCA),36








International Conference on the Plight of Refugees, Returnees and Displaced Persons in Southern Africa (SARRED), 36








International Conferences on Assistance to Refugees in Africa (ICARA), 34, 35, 204








International Council of Voluntary Agencies (ICVA), 30, 160-161








International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 153








International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, 156, 161, 193








International Humanitarian Assistance: Disaster Relief Action in International Law and Organisation, 210








International Migration, 190








International Migration and Security, 214








International Migration Law, 212






 












Page 255




International Migration Review, 175, 190, 203








International Nansen Office for Refugees, 28








International Organization for Migration (IOM), 5-6, 30, 161, 190








International organizations, 5-7. See also specific organizations








International Refugee Integration








Resource Centre (IRIRC), 198








International refugee law, 92-157








Cartagena Declaration, 3, 35, 150-151








Convention Governing the Specific Aspects of Refugee Problems in Africa, 3, 31, 132-139








Convention on Diplomatic Asylum (1954), 143-149








Convention on Territorial Asylum (1954), 139-143








Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees (1951), 2, 3-5, 30, 36, 98-124, 98-129, 152








Declaration on Territorial Asylum, 31, 129-131








Dublin Convention, 151








and human rights instruments, 152-155








organizations, 180-181








recent developments, 155-157








resources, 195, 203, 204, 205, 212, 222








Schengen Agreement, 151-152








UNHCR statute, 92-98








International Refugee Organization (IRO), 29,205,213








The International Refugee Organization: A Specialized Agency of the United Nations, Its History and Work, 1946-1952, 205








International Rescue Committee (IRC), 51, 168, 187








International Review of the Red Cross, 190-191








International Social Service, 180








International Thesaurus of Refugee Terminology, 195








Involuntary Migration and Resettlement: The Problems and Responses of Dislocated People, 204








Iran, 33








Iraq, 9, 22, 37








Irian Jaya, 35








Israel, 29, 39, 47








Italy, 5








Ivory Coast, 37








J








Jacobson, Gaynor, 52-53








Jacobson, Jodi, 217








Jesuit Refugee Service (JRS), 180








Joly, Daniele, 206, 217








Jordan, 37








Journal of International Refugee Law, 191








Journal of Refugee Studies, 184, 191








Justice, U.S. Department of, 166








K








Keely, Charles, 218








Kent, Randolph, 206








Kenya, 1, 11, 35, 37








Kibreab, Gaim, 206








Kidd, Diana, 207








Kirk, Robin, 218








Klein, Wells, 50








Koehn, Peter, 207








Korean War, 29








Kristallnacht, 28








Kritz, Mary, 207








Kunz, Egon E, 207








Kurds, 9, 37








Kuwait, 37








L








Lake, Anthony, 207








Laos, 32, 33, 36, 224, 227, 228








Larkin, Mary Ann, 208








Latin America, 139-143, 143-149. See also Central America; specific countries








The Law of Asylum: A Manual for Practitioners and Adjudicators, 195








The Law of Refugee Status, 205








Lawless, Richard, 208








Lawyers Committee for Human Rights (LCHR), 180-181








Lawyers' Committee for International Human Rights, 218








League of Nations, 27, 28








Left Out in the Cold: The Perilous Homecoming of Afghan Refugees, 219






 












Page 256




Legacy of Tears, 227








Lenin, 46-47








Let Us Tell You, 227








Liberia, 36, 219








Loescher, Ann, 209








Loescher, Gil, 208, 209, 211-212, 219








Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service (LIRS), 168-169








Lutheran World Relief, 181








M








Macalister-Smith, Peter, 210








McCarthy, Charles, 50








McCarthyism, 43, 44, 46








McDonald, James G., 53-54








Make a Little Difference, 227-228








Malawi, 35








Malaysia, 32








Marrus, Michael R., 210








Martin, David A., 210








Mason, Linda, 210








Mauritania, 36








Meir, Golda, 47








Menchu, Rigoberta, 54








Mennonite Central Committee, 181








Migration, 191








Migration from Eastern to Western Europe, Past (1946-1 989) and Future (1990-2000), 216








Migration World Magazine, 175, 191








Minear, Larry, 210








Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights, 181-182








Minority Rights Group, 182








Monahan, Laila, 208, 209








Monday, 191-192








The Moral Nation: Humanitarianism and U.S. Foreign Policy Today, 211-212








Morgan, Scott, 211








Morocco, 30








Morris, Benny, 211








Moving Mountains: The Story of the Yiu Mien, 228








Mozambique, 11, 21, 31, 35, 39, 230








Mozambique--An Uprooted People, 228








Muntarbhorn, Vitit, 211








N








Nagorno-Karabakh, 2, 39








Namibia, 36








Namibia: The Challenge To Come, 228








Nansen, Fridtjof, 27, 54-55








National Coalition for Haitian Refugees (NCHR), 182








National Immigration, Refugee, and Citizenship Forum, 182








Nazism








activists, 53-54, 57-58








chronology, 28, 29








distinguished refugees from, 42-44, 45








resources, 203, 213-214, 215, 225, 226, 234








See also World War II








Nepal, 38








Netherlands Quarterly of Human Rights, 192








Nettleton, Clive, 206, 217








New Americans, 228-229








The New Asylum Seekers: Refugee Law in the 1980s, 210








New Underground Railroad, 229








Newman, Frank, 198








NGOs. See Nongovernmental organizations








Nicaragua, 33, 37








Nichols, Bruce, 211-212








Nobody Listened, 229








Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), 6, 19. See also specific organizations








Nonrefoulement protection, 2-3








El Norte, 229








North to Freedom, 205-206








Nuremberg Laws, 28








Nureyev, Rudolf, 48








O








OAU (Organization of African Unity), 3, 31, 132-139, 154








Ockenden Venture, 56








OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development), 194








Office of Emergency Relief Coordinator, 20, 38, 155-156








Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR), 165








Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), 5, 162-163








and Africa, 30, 31, 33, 37, 38








and Burma, 39








and Cambodia, 32






 












Page 257




Center for Documentation on Refugees, 159, 193, 199








and Central America, 34, 36, 231








challenges to, 2, 6-7, 10-13








Collection of International Instruments concerning Refugees, 149-150, 199








creation of, 29, 92-98








and Cyprus, 32








early warning systems, 19








emergency relief care, 14, 16








extension of mandate, 3








finances, 15-17, 68-70








and former Yugoslavia, 11, 14, 37, 38-39








and human rights, 12, 17, 23-24








and interagency coordination, 21-22








and internal wars, 9








and Iran, 33








Nobel Peace Prize, 30, 34








and nongovernmental organizations, 6








and preventive strategies, 15








publications, 199-200, 214, 230, 235








resources about, 205, 218-219, 221,223,230-231,232-233








statistics, 88-89








West German indemnification fund, 30








Ogaden, 33








Ogata, Sadako, 55-56








The Older Generation of Southeast Asian Refugees, An Annotated Bibliography, 196








Oliver-Smith, A., 204








One Year Later, 229-230








Onion Tears, 207








Open Borders? Closed Societies? The Ethical and Political Questions, 203








Open Window: Cambodian Refugee Family, 230








Operation Provide Comfort, 37








Operation Restore Hope, 38








Operation USA, 183








Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), 194








Organization of African Unity (OAU), 3, 31, 132-139, 154








Ossetia, 39








Oxfam America, 183








P








Pakistan, 31,32








Palestinians, 39, 42








resources, 211, 224, 229-230, 232








UNRWA, 4, 5, 29, 163-164








Pan-African Refugee Conference, 34








Paper Walls: America and the Refugee Crisis, 215








Papua-New Guinea, 35








Parsons, William, 213-214








Pearce, Joyce, 56








People in Upheaval, 211








Peru, 37, 218








Philippines, 32








Pieces of Dreams, 230








Plender, Richard, 212








PLO (Palestine Liberation Organization), 39








Poland, 36








Poulton, H., 206








Preventive Action for Refugee-Producing Situations, 202








A Promise To Keep, 230








Protecting the Dispossessed: A Challenge for the International Community, 202








Protocol to the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, 30-31, 124-129








The Psychological Problems of Refugees, 200








Q








The Quality of Mercy: Cambodia, Holocaust and Modern Conscience, 213








Que se callen las armas, 230-231








R








Rav Tov, Inc., 183








REFCAS, 221








REFINT, 222








REFLAP, 222








REFLEG, 222








REFLIT, 222








Refuge, 192








Refugee Abstracts, 159








Refugee Act (1980), 34, 218








Refugee and Immigrant Resource Directory, 1990-1991, 199








Refugee Children, 231






 












Page 258




Refugee Convention and Protocol, UN, 64








The Refugee Council, 194








The Refugee in International Law, 150, 203








The Refugee in the Post-War World, 214








The Refugee in the World Community, 213








Refugee Mental Health in Resettlement Countries, 214-215








Refugee Movements and International Security, 208








Refugee Participation Network, 184, 192








Refugee Policy: Canada and the United States, 200








Refugee Policy Group (RPG), 183-184, 199-200








The Refugee Problem, 213








Refugee programs








and asylum-seekers, 24-25








challenges, 10-13








early warning systems, 18-20








financial constraints, 15-17, 22-23








and human rights, 12, 17, 22-24








interagency coordination, 20-22, 155-156








preventive strategies, 14-15, 202








UN coordination, 20-21








U.S. role in, 25-26, 65-66








See also specific programs








Refugee Refoulement: The Forced Return of Haitians under the U.S. Haitian Interdiction Agreement, 218








Refugee Report, 194








Refugee Reports, 187, 192








Refugee Studies Programme (RSP), 184,191,192,196,198








Refugee Survey Quarterly, 193








Refugee Voices, Inc., 184








Refugee Women, 202-203








Refugee Women in Development (RefWID), 184-185








Refugees








definitions of, 2-5, 61-62, 150-151, 205








increase in, 1-2, 7-8, 35, 62








political context, 8-10








rights of, 2-3








statistics, 61-70








See also specific topics








Refugees (book), 205








Refugees (videotapes), 231








Refugees: A Problem of Our Time: The Work of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 205








Refugees: Asylum in Europe?, 206








Refugees: Dynamics of Displacement, 206








Refugees: Issues and Directions, 203








Refugees and the Asylum Dilemma in the West, 208-209








Refugees from Revolution: U.S. Policy and Third World Migration, 207








Refugees in Africa, 195








Refugees in Asia and Australia/Oceania, 195








Refugees in Europe, 217








Refugees in International Politics, 203-204








Refugees in Inter-War Europe, 213








Refugees in Latin America and the Caribbean, 195








Refugees in Northern America, 195








Refugees in Our Backyard, 231








Refugees in the Age of Total War: Twentieth Century Case-Studies of Refugees in Europe and the Middle East, 200-201








Refugees in Western Europe, 195-196








Refugees International, 185








Reintegration, 11-12. See also Repatriation








Relief and Development Institute, 185








A Religion in Retreat, 231-232








Repatriation, 2, 4, 11-12, 64, 208, 219. See also specific countries








Repatriation: Tackling Protection and Assistance Concerns, 219








Repatriation under Conflict in Central America, 208








Ressler, Everett Neil Boothby, 212








Revue Europe ene des migrations internationales, 192-193








Rice, Rivalry and Politics, 210








The Right To Leave and Return in International Law and Practice, 204








Rogers, Rosemarie, 212








Romania, 36








Roosevelt, Franklin D., 28






 












Page 259




Rudge, Philip, 57








Ruiz, Hiram, 219








Russian Civil War, 27








Russian Revolution, 27, 44, 46-47








Russo-Polish War, 27








Rutter, Jill, 213








Rwanda, 2, 30, 31, 36, 38, 39, 40








S








The Salvation Army World Service Office (SAWSO), 185-186








Samsara, 232








Saudi Arabia, 37








Save the Children Federation, Inc., 186








Scanlan, John, 208, 209








Schengen Agreement (1990), 151-152








Schorr, Alan, 199








Segal, Aaron, 198-199








Selected International Human Rights Instruments, 198








Senate Judiciary Committee, 166








Senegal, 36








Serving with a Purpose, 232








Shawcross, William, 213








Sierra Leone, 37








Simpson,John Hope, 213








Since 1951,232








Skran, Claudena, 213








Solzhenitsyn, Alexander, 48-49








Somalia, 1, 9, 19, 22








chronology, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38








SOPEMI: Continuous Reporting on Migration, 194








Sourcebook on Central American Refugee Policy: A Bibliography, 196








Southeast Asia, 32, 186, 197








resources, 214, 223, 228-229








See also specific countries








Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC), 186








Southeast Asian Refugee Youth: An Annotated Bibliography, 197








Soviet famine, 27, 44








Soviet Union, 48-49, 219








Spanish Civil War, 28








Sri Lanka, 35, 194








Sri Lanka Monitor, 194








State, U.S. Department of, 166








The State of the World's Refugees: The Challenge of Protection, 199, 214








The State of World Population, 194








The Status of Refugees in Asia, 21 1








The Status of Refugees in International Law, 204








Stein, Barry, 208








Steinbeck, David, 212








Sternberg, Charles, 50








Stoessinger, John, 213








Strengthening International Response to Humanitarian Emergencies, 216








Strom, Margo Stern, 213-214








Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, 18-19








Sudan, 175-176, 205, 216








chronology, 30, 31,33, 34, 35








Sudan 1990-1992: Food Aid, Famine and Failure, 216








Suhrke, Astri, 215








The Sun and the Night, 232-233








Sun Yat-sen, 49








Sutter, Valerie, 214








T








Taft, Julia, 50








Tajikistan, 2, 11, 38








Tanzania, 39








Tenzin Gyato, 49-50








Thailand, 32, 33, 34, 188, 234








THESAURUS, 222








Third World Conflicts and Refugeeism: Dimensions, Dynamics and Trends of the World Refugee Problem, 204








Third World Resource Directory, 197








Tibet, 49-50








A Time To Weep, 233








To Be an American, 233








Togo, 38








Tolstoy Foundation, Inc., 169








Torture and Its Consequences, 200








Transportation advances, 8








Tunisia, 30








Turkey, 27








U








Uganda, 30, 31, 34, 35, 205








Unaccompanied Children: Care and Placement in Wars, Natural Disasters and Refugee Movements, 212








Uncertain Haven, 218








UNDOCS, 222






 












Page 260 




UNDP (UN Development Programme), 12, 19,21-22








The Uneasy Alliance: Religion, Refugee Work and U.S. Foreign Policy, 211








UNHCR. See Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees








UNHCR: A Global View, 233








The UNHCR at 40: Refugee Protection at the Crossroads, 218- 219








UNHCR Liaison Section with Non-Governmental Organizations, 200








UNICEF (UN Children's Fund), 5, 163, 187








United Nations








Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, 154








Convention on the Rights of the Child, 154








Declaration on Territorial Asylum, 31,129-131








and definition of refugees, 2, 3








early warning systems, 18








Office of Emergency Relief Coordinator, 20, 38, 155-156








program coordination, 20-21








Refugee Convention and Protocol, 64








resources, 222








Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 29








See also specific UN organizations and conventions








UN Border Relief Operation (UNBRO), 34, 234








UN Centre for Human Rights, 18, 22-24, 150, 196








UN Children's Fund (UNICEF), 5, 163, 187








UN Commission on Human Rights, 18-19, 22, 23, 24, 156-157








UN Department of Humanitarian Affairs (DHA), 20-21, 38, 155, 163








UN Development Programme (UNDP), 12, 19, 21-22








UN High Commissioner for Refugees. See Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees








United Nations Human Rights Bodies: An Agenda for Humanitarian Action, 217








UN Korean Reconstruction Agency (UNKRA), 29








UN Population Fund, 194








UN Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA), 29, 215








UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), 4, 5, 29, 163-164








UN Security Council, 22








United States








McCarthyism, 43, 44, 46








Operation Restore Hope, 38








role of, 25-26, 65-66








See also U.S. refugee policies; specific organizations








U.S. Catholic Conference Migration and Refugee Services (USCC/MRS), 169-170








U.S. Committee for Refugees (USCR), 59, 192, 186-187, 193








U.S. Committee for UNICEF, 187








U.S. Immigration and Refugee Policy: Global and Domestic Issues, 207








U.S. refugee policies, 67-68








Haiti, 39, 40, 218, 233-234








Refugee Act (1980), 34








resources, 207, 209, 211-212, 215, 218, 229, 231, 233-234








Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 29, 152-153








UNRRA (UN Relief and Rehabilitation Administration), 29,215








UNRWA (UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East), 4, 5, 29, 163-164








The Unwanted: European Refugees in the Twentieth Century, 210








Update, 179








Uprooted Liberians: Casualties of a Brutal War, 219








Urquhart, Brian, 216








Uruguay, 31








V








Vernant,Jacques, 199, 214








Vietnam, 32, 33, 36, 173, 207, 227






 












Page 261




Voyage of Dreams, 233-234








Voyage of the Damned, 234








W








Waiting for Cambodia, 234








Wall and Bridge, 234-235








Wallenberg, Raoul, 57-58








War and Refugees: The Western Sahara Conflict, 208








We Left Because We Had To: An Educational Book for 14-18 Year Olds, 213








Weiner, Myron, 214








Weissbrodt, David, 198








Westermayer, Joseph, 214-215








Western Sahara, 32, 208








WFP (World Food Program), 5, 164-165








Wiesel, Elie, 58








Williams, Carolyn, 200, 214-215








Winter, Roger Paul, 58-59








Women, 154, 184-185, 187








resources, 199, 202-203, 219-220, 235








Women at Risk, 235








Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, 187, 219-220








Woodbridge, George, 215








World Concern International, 187








World Council of Churches, Refugee and Migration Service, 164








World Disaster Report, 193








World Food Program (WFP), 5, 164-165








World Learning, Inc., 188








World Refugee Survey, 187, 193








World Refugee Year, 30








World Relief of the National Association of Evangelicals, 170








World Vision, Inc., 188








World War I, 7, 27








World War II, 6, 7-8, 28-29, 42-44, 45-46








The World's Refugees, A Test of Humanity, 209








WRITENET, 222








Wyman, David, 215








X








Xenophobia, 14








Y








Yellow Tale Blues: Two American Families, 235








Yemen, 1, 37








Yugoslavia. See Former Yugoslavia








Z








Zaire, 32, 33, 35, 38, 40








Zimbabwe, 34








Zolberg, Aristide R., 215








Zucker, Naomi, 215








Zucker, Norman, 215






 












Page 263




Gil Loescher is a professor of international relations at the University of Notre Dame. He is an international authority on refugees and the author and editor of several books on the subject, including Beyond Charity: International Cooperation and the Global Refugee Crisis. He is the chairman of the Committee of International Experts for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees biennial report, The State of the World's Refugees. Ann Loescher has taught primary and secondary school and is the author of several books for children and young adults, some of which were written with her husband. She and Gil have two teenaged daughters and live in Oxford, England, and South Bend, Indiana.






 



