













The Art of Thinking
Dagobert D. Runes








CONTENTS
Wish and Vision
Faith and the Infidels
Cavernous Emotions
Motives and Mind
The Old and the Wise
Silence Is Yellow
The Rationalizers
Pax Romanitas
Daydreams and Nightmares
The Law Is Guilty
The Devil and the Skin
The Crime of Punishment
Quanta Theories
Shoddy Emotions and Shoddy Ideas
The Museum of Words
The Naked King
The Logic of Snobbism
Heart and the Mind
Brain-washing and Brain-soiling
The New Slave Society
The Sick and the Sinning
Sages and Sycophants
Science and the Good Thought
On Grading and Degrading Students
Book Knowledge and Knavery







WISH AND VISION
People think alike. If they did not, they could not live alongside each other for a single day.
Were I to say I feel a draft, you would shut the window; were I to say the tea is cold, you would put the kettle back on the stove; were I to lunge at you with a long knife, you would fall back. It is self-evident that were we not to think alike, we would have to live in utter isolation. Thinking alike is the basis of human society and, to some extent, of animal society as well. As the saying goes, "A hawk does not devour its own and a bee will not spit into the wax."
Whenever we find an un-alike form of thinking we are facing a sick or abnormal mind that may, as I have seen in mental institutions, try to cut bread with a spoon and eat soup with a fork. We may come back to the insane later in the book. At this point we are concerned with the mind of average man—contemporary, ancient, or primitive. All normal people think alike. If they should fail to do so for a single day they would share the fate of those who built the Tower of Babel.
The legend of Babel symbolizes the disaster befalling a community that differs in language. How much more calamitous if a community would differ in thinking!
I would like to assure the questioning reader that I fully recognize the alleged differences of thought besetting mankind. Such differences actually do not lie in the thinking process of man, but rather in what I call the emotional drive beneath, aside and above the logic of man.
Man's logic is like a set of sails. Whether they are set on schooners or junks, sloops or dinghies, sails they are. Big and small, white, red or black, fancy, sharp, and tightly woven, or sloppy, dank, ragged, fuzzy, or ripped, they will carry you through the sea of life. But it is the waves and the winds that make them go one way or another and sometimes push them over to an early end.
Some winds are hot and some are cold, zephyr and hurricane and the whole bountiful variety that lies between, including typhoons and icy storms and the dread stillness of the tropical doldrums.
It is the winds that blow the sails. It is the waves, mast high and canyon deep, caressing foam or stinging spray, or again, the hot stillness of palmy coasts—the seas also make the sails billow and pull or suddenly flutter into fainting spells.
The winds and the waves drive the sails. It is desire and the ego that drive man's reasoning.
Reason is never without the current of the ego and the wind of desire. No ship ever sailed the oceans without water and wind. No man ever went through life not borne and driven by the two classical passions of Self and the great Wish.
And that is why, suddenly, the people who think alike think so differently. It is the Babel of old times. They think in different emotions. Their egos are different and their affections are different. All man's thinking is motivated by these two great passions. Under their pressure, the masts are straining, and all around us in the sea of life we see the wrecks of once-proud ships, victims sometimes of their own greed and sometimes stranded on a neighbor's stony self-interest.
The seven seas are full of shipwrecks gone to the bottom not because of the hazards that lie in the waterways, but rather because of man's disastrous inhumanity to man.
In years not so long gone inhabitants of rocky seashores sometimes fell to their knees on stormy days, praying to the Lord for a bountiful wreckage.
Then, as often now, the graveyard of some became a treasure ground for others. When the Romans, the clear-thinking Romans, leveled the walls of Carthage, Jerusalem, Athens, and Alexandria and a thousand other Greek and Semitic towns, they prayed to the gods to sanctify the loot dragged under the triumphal arches of Rome. Persons of good education still today travel thousands of miles so they may admire these pillars of Roman culture.







FAITH AND THE INFIDELS
There is one serious trouble with man's House of God: The believer hardly, if ever, takes the trouble of looking into the cellar to examine the foundations.
For the Christian, religion begins with Jesus; for the Moslem with Mohammed; for the Hebrew with Noah's covenant; and for the Hindu with one of the numerous demigods, depending upon which of the six sects claims his fealty.
But there were religions and there was faith—and there was wonderment and despair, searching and affirming, before Jesus and before Moses, before Buddha and before Confucius; so if one wants to be master in his own house, one has to go down into the cellar and make a thorough job of it.
What we know of God we know from people, people speaking and people writing.
There is no other knowledge of God except by word of mouth and word of pen.
Religion is but a matter of scroll and parchment, and the reason why one man identifies God with Mohammed while across the broad river his neighbor identifies Him through Laotse is purely a matter of their using different libraries.
People can live in the same building and still be of different faith. Whatever book or bible dominates the desk, that is the religion of the house; as whatever law dominated a province in post-medieval Germany or in medieval India became the religion of the province. That is why you have Protestants in Prussia and Catholics across the river in Bavaria.
God never wrote in books, nor did His sons. From the way in which so many people in the Western World regard God, one must assume He was a Jew who spoke Hebrew only, although some Scriptures are written in Aramaic. But what of the rest of the world? Most people in India and China and South Asian countries do not even know there is a Hebrew language; still they revere scriptures and other messages of God.
In my eyes it shows rather short-sighted thinking to attribute to the good Lord only such very recent religious documents as those available in the early antiquity of Eurasia. I have always resented the idea of degrading the good Lord to the rank of an editor of priestly documents.
I reckon the persons who collected or construed the world's various holy scriptures pay no homage to the Creator by attributing their well-meaning handiwork to Him. I mean no disrespect to any of these diversified sacred writings, but their mere basic differences preclude Divine authorship.
Yet most people still begin their religious thinking with what should be its end, namely, the establishing of broad fundamentals in the pursuit of their daily life.
They accept as absolute and divine a chain of principles, an often fantastic type of historiography, and finally, an often dangerous attitude of exclusiveness, nay, antagonism, against "infidels." It does not seem to bother them at all that other nations and other groups hold with entirely different presentations, and grant tolerance in this matter. Not all revelations can possibly be true in view of their fundamental and historic contradictions.
Religious thinking therefore cannot be a mere exegesis of the upper floors of current biblical scripture; rather, it must go far beyond the birth of the traditional gospels of the respective beliefs into the very heart of religion.
Religio in its original meaning implies binding. The question is: What binds man to man and what binds man to God? The religions in known history, those that fell into oblivion and those that are still cherished, have often done some of the good that they were intended for, but frequently instead of binding men together they have acted to separate them.
The Koran failed to bind its people to the Hindus, and the Testament of Jesus did not stop the German Christians from annihilating the kinsmen of their Savior.
I do not wish to dwell on the crimson thread that runs through the history of religious thinking. If it is true, however, that God wrote this tragic play, then He gave each of the actors a different script which, instead of uniting, separated them. There are three scores of religions in the world today, and twice as many lost in antiquity, all claiming direct authorship of the Heavens. Were they meant to be as an act of whimsy by the Lord to confound the people on this globe?
If religion means binding man to man, neighbor to neighbor, in goodness and comradeship, and in devotion to the Divine Principle that such humaneness entails, then the person thinking about religion must close the shutters of the superstructures where he has been dwelling and step down to search for the foundation of all faith.
And if his house is not based upon such fundamentals as love and generosity, he should leave this abode as one would a pagan shrine. If God is what He is, He is amor perfectissimus or He is nothing more than a chimeric figment of Shaman imagination.
There are, of course, those who suffer from laziness of religious thinking. They do not desire a God whose nature implies their being good to their fellow man—black and white, pagan, Jew, and yellow. They wish a God who is good to them, a God they can pray to for better harvest, for rain, for a quiet sea so their fishing be not impaired. They want a God to whom they can genuflect to heal their sick and bring to life their dead. They want a God of Supplication in favor of fertility and a successful war; they want a God with whom they can strike a bargain for a life hereafter, a good life with featherbeds and fancy living for which they are willing to give coin and candles and sometimes even forego a handsome bit of sex. They want to live forever; and for this "ever" they are willing to pay the price.
Contrary to what some preachers have been telling them, I doubt if Jehovah is ready to make a deal; and if so, I question the desirability of these people in His Realm; and I seriously doubt if the people who pretend to be in His confidence are more than confidence men. There are naïve multitudes who, since time immemorial, have listened to the Shaman's admonition not to dare step beyond the prescribed borders of denominational sectdom. These good people, frightened and bewildered, have picked out for themselves a little corner of Shaman tradition, trying to lead a life of religious imitation. They place the fez on their head or a prayer wheel in their hands in their fear of purgatory or their yearning for paradise. They eschew meat on Friday and alcohol the year round. They live on greens and grain and kneel on the prayer rug five times a day. They counted on the ritual since that appeared a sure way to celestial security according to the words of the Shaman. For them, these observances were the Lord's ultimate demands on the road to salvation.
Knights promising Our Father in Heaven a new and fancier chapel if their raid on the burghers succeeds; Constantine vowing to tear down all non-Christian temples, resting his hopes of conquest on Jesus' intercession; the gambler offering to contribute a sizable share of his winnings to the collection box if his horse wins—their religious thinking is alike in that it is born of fear and greed and not of benevolence.
All these prayers born in the pocketbook or on the battle horse, the sick room or the classroom—what kind of a God do they envision who is swayed by groveling and bribes?
All these abstinences and rituals, all the rosaries and rhymes and prayers, all the self-denial and flagellation, the observance and subservience, the fasting and the feasting, were a sacrifice not on the altar of God, but to an earthly paradise.
They sacrifice a lamb to Baal so their cattle may double and treble. They sacrifice a calf so their trade may prosper, they sacrifice a virgin so they may win a war—and the good little people with the little faith, they sacrifice comfort and cash so they may buy a life hereafter.
I do not deny the life hereafter, but I do not think it is for sale. I do not deny the mercy of the Lord, but I doubt if prayers can arouse it or blasphemy can still it.
All this religious thinking of the little people and the sway of the Shaman is thinking born of greed and fear and therefore not true.
If God is loved as He is, then only thinking born out of love can touch His grace, and His grace goes further than any text, higher than any cathedral, and deeper than any vow.
To observe rites and rituals as symbols of a noble heritage may be a demonstration of fealty to an upright tradition. But if such observance takes the form of cold and petty discipline in order to curry favor with God Adonai or avert the ire of God Shaddai, the destroyer, then there is no longer religious thinking but rather religious speculation.
No rite or ritual is essential, but goodness is. Except as a symbolic gesture, religious observance is as sterile as it is widespread over the lands.







CAVERNOUS EMOTIONS
Napoleon said that there is one in every battalion. He referred, of course, to the grenadier ready to throw off his uniform at the first shot. Such thought and action is, of course, born out of the instinct for double protection: my people will not kill me and the enemy might accept me as a neutral, perhaps even as a friend.
This form of Existentialist reasoning, placing one's own existence above all such general good as political justice, homeland, family, loyalty, can take various more or less subtle shapes, frequently colored by additional motivations like prima donna arrogance, and so on.
This denial of one's own group will be found among Negroes in efforts to cross the color line; among fellow travelers of the Western world adopting the Party line; among Jews covering up their racial origin. Little do they consider that if you humiliate one black man, you degrade all the Negroes; if you stone one Jew, you hit all of them. Wherever the red war horse rode it trampled all the people, and more often than not, first on those who calculated that fawning would raise them above their fellow citizens.
Those with double disloyalties, having rejected responsibilities towards their own, may find the enemy appreciative of their services as long as those are required. But renegades always look shabby when the battle is over.
Still, the coward possessed by fear is likely to be influenced in his thinking more by the prospects of immediate security than by the long-range aftermath. His first proposition often is that he is not an American or a Jew or a British subject; rather, he feels himself a Human. Such a proposition automatically strips him of all uniform and now he can turn his coat with the enemy. He will praise the enemy if they are within earshot, and make certain to deride his own people, government and their platform at every step.
He seems to be dominated by an astonishing uniqueness of thinking. Whatever the enemy whispers, he speaks out loud. Whatever the enemy insinuates, he frames as an indictment. Whatever the enemy plans, he takes at face value and embellishes it. With deft sarcasm, with bite and bitterness, he ridicules all platforms and programs of his own side while he expounds eagerly and with solemn care, the most obvious political, social, and military traps of the enemy.
He sits at the campfires of his people while his mind travels with the enemy lurking in the dark. He is forever the accuser of his own people and their government. He is forever a belittler of the tradition and history of his own and the most anxious eulogist of the enemy's slogans and pretenses. He is a true fellow traveler, forever marching in the opposite direction from his fellow citizens.
It is folly to reason with the fellow traveler. In this, as in all similar situations, it is not the thinking that is defective or illogical; rather, logic is dominated by fear and hopes, and to change it one would have to dispel the fears and diminish the hopes. One cannot raise sagging courage by argument or conversation.
There are some, of course, who travel with the enemy not in fear, but rather in greed or social ambition. Communism is big business, in addition to its other enchanting attributes. Communism has spun out an invisible net through which large amounts of prizes and possessions are distributed among the willing. When the Mexican artist projects on canvas a vision showing Stalin, a halo around his head, blessing the working classes, while in the back can be seen Uncle Sam grimacing ugly threats, a machine gun in his hand—well, there has always been a price on such paintings, and a prize.
When Picasso dedicated a sketch of a pigeon, palm leaf in beak, to the same Stalin the very week the Russian marshal was engaged in humorous banter with Beria, his Chief of Security, over whether they had executed a total of two or three million, the Spanish painter knew quite well that by having the dove fly Stalin's personal banner it would give his own little flag quite a bit of elevation. When the German philosopher Martin Heidegger delivered a lengthy speech on the intrinsic values of Hitler's National Socialism; when the French philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre took his trek to the Kremlin Canossa; when the Italian philosopher Giovanni Gentile made much ado about Mussolini's social theories; when Lord Bertrand Russell essayed on American depravity, and when the philosopher Mao Tse-tung put the final touches upon a major thesis on social science after quietly announcing that he had to direct personally the execution of 800,000 men and women for opposing his social philosophy, and that he is cheered by the report that many of those executed on the marketplaces were denounced by their own kin who, in appreciation, were given the privilege of watching the axing—there was nothing wrong with the thinking faculties of any of them or of similar men. Whatever is foul in their state of mind lies deeply rooted in one of these fundamental affections: the greed for self-aggrandizement, the greed for power, the greed for money, and the greed for recognition.
The prima donna who broke her back in a rush to sing for Hitler at the Vienna opera is driven by the same avarice as the painter in Mexico glorifying the mustache and pipe, and the Heidelberg professor philosophizing about the beast of Berlin.
All such thinking, creative as well as meditative, is worth no more and no less than the cavernous emotions underlying it.







MOTIVES AND MIND
Man's principles of logic, the fundamental categories of his thinking processes, are universal and identical, not only in today's world, from nation to nation, race to race, group to group, and sex to sex, but also historically. The structure of civilized man's thinking apparatus of the past and of tomorrow, as far as we can analyze documents and actions, is the same. We could not live together with our fellow citizens for a single day without confusing or even destroying each other were this not the case.
The most ancient proverbs, as well as codes going back almost ten thousand years, seem to have been based upon processes quite similar to ours, indeed, identical with ours. If twentieth century anthropos could be placed in the city of Jericho seven thousand years ago, provided he knew the language, he would quickly fall in line with what the citizens of that city considered the way of life and the way of work, the way of sin and the way of strife. Even their gods would appear to him quite familiar; perhaps more so than, let us say, the familiars of present-day witchcraft devotees in California. By the same token, if an aborigine, pulled out of the Congolese or Australian bushlands, could be placed directly in the heart of a modern metropolis, how very quickly he would merge with its activity!
Man's treasury of accumulated facts (and sometimes, fancies) has grown considerably since what we choose to call the dawn of civilization, but that is only the dawn of the finding of documents of civilization such as writings and artifacts. Man may have lived for a million years on the level of an African jungle creature, leaving not a single trace of what we refer to as cultural objects, yet this very jungle creature thinks today and undoubtedly did then in the very same manner we do.
Man's thinking processes are universal in time and space.
However, man's thinking differs not only in time and space, but even from person to person, from sex to sex, from group to group, in accordance with the differences in the respective emotional grounds in which that thinking is rooted.
I should like to point out that large segments of applied thought are hardly, if at all, affected by this emotional grounding. I am referring to such general faculties as mathematics, physics, mechanics, technology, and other subjects of similar character that frequently in the past led philosophers, especially in the days of Descartes, to profess that such forms of mechanical and mathematical thinking were the only manner by which truth could be found.
Be this as it may, such mathematical and mechanical subjects do not disturb the peace of mind of man nor the peace or order of nations. Their pursuit is limited by the natural limitations of human understanding. Where there are differences, added information will in time doubtless resolve them to everybody's satisfaction, and if unresolved, no one will be very much perturbed by it excepting the few that to begin with were interested in the problem.
What concerns us strongly, very strongly indeed, is the thought processes governing the rest of man's preoccupation, going beyond the mere technological issues of daily living, beyond the mathematical queries in mechanics and other sciences. Excluding the above, all man's thinking is motivated. And it differs from that of his fellow creatures only to the extent that his motives differ. These motives are often hidden; hidden from the observer, but also from the participant. Tell me your motives, and I will tell you your thoughts. Or, if you prefer, tell me your thoughts and I will tell you your motives.
Although the above is axiomatic, man's inner motivations are quite intricate and complicated; more often than not, there is a combination of motives that shapes the resolves of man, and not a single affection. Underneath all this remains man's subliminal emotional drive for self-preservation that differs in intensity and orientation, but never in direction. Motives are sometimes uncouth and blatant, like those of the Southern White Council member who thinks the Negro is savage, but who actually is in fear of the black man's competition. Motives are sometimes mere ambitious greed, like those of the Southern rabble-rouser who, knowing differently, pursues a line of Negro slander in order to gain an election. Motives may be subtle, like those of a physiologically weak white specimen threatening or assaulting a helpless black man in order to impress his friends or a sexual companion with his prowess. Motives may lie in traditional hatred, inculcated in Southern persons by their elders.
I could go on and enumerate scores of variations in motivation that may, and do, lead to anti-Negro thinking. This method may be applied to similar though slightly different relations between any dominant and minority group. It should not be difficult at all to analyze the thinking of the Germans of the Hitler era or the Ukrainians of the present era in their relationship to the Jewish minority; these two large nations have developed, from a whole set of ugly envy motivations, a Mephistophelian thought-pattern about the Jews which exists nowhere but in their decadent minds.
What has driven their minds into a frightful, morbid corner is not a variation in thinking, but rather a variation in their emotional grounding.
It is interesting to note that persons beset with superiority pretensions are indeed people suffering from severe feelings of inferiority who try to attach their own blemishes to a helpless minority group. For instance, the Russians, and especially the Ukrainians, professing to an international solidarity, but in fact imbued by strong national pride, accuse their Jewish fellow citizens of Zionistic nationalism; the Communists, who relentlessly pursue a policy of world conquest while pretending to sponsor self-determination of the little nations, accuse the Jews of desiring to control the world; the Communists, who run their government by a self-perpetuating clique in the Kremlin, under a system by which the people are never given even the semblance of a choice, accuse the government of Israel of dictatorship, a government which has the most democratic election procedure in all of Asia. We will often find that persons attack those they deride mainly on points in which they themselves are most vulnerable. Perhaps the intensity of their dislike is fanned by the guilt feelings over their own inadequacy.
Every man in every nation likes to sail under the unfurling banner of some glorious slogan even if he carries a cargo of destruction and pestilence in his pirate hold.
Don't let the banner fool you. Let's board the ship and see what is under that shining deck.







THE OLD AND THE WISE
How often have we heard that wisdom comes with age. But I say the aged are not wiser, only shrewder, and shrewdness is neither the better nor any other part of wisdom. An old donkey is still a jackass. He may know when to buck to ease his burden and when to stop to be left alone. It is the young who are sometimes willing to start anew, really anew, and to begin where all true radicalism originates, with their own thinking.
If we should ever have a new and better world, it will have to begin in the thinking of our young men. It certainly will not be the result of the cleverness of the old.
Beware of the old. Often enough they have already lost their zeal for the world of tomorrow. They want to live it up for their remaining few years or months. They may become narcissistic and seek something pretty, glistening, or tasty among the thinking and ideas around them which they are about to leave. It is the ham's ludicrous flamboyance before the exit. They respect nothing and no one. If they can pluck a gem from the crown of the enemy to decorate themselves, they will invite Khrushchev for lunch or work out of Hitler's den, smiling with jovial amiability. They take garlands from bloody Mao and travel a thousand miles to shake the hand of Mussolini. What old men and women will do for excitement, and to the devil with right and wrong!
Beware of the old who are eager for the headline, who make a mockery not only of sagacity but of plain common sense. They have little to lose but their boredom and they are eager to gain one more thrill en passant.







SILENCE IS YELLOW
If it be true that we know little about ancient generations, it certainly stands to reason that we know less about our own. The most difficult subject of thought is the one immediately before us. Thinking far removed can be undertaken with some prospect of objectivity. Thinking close to us frequently brings into our vision more of us than of the subject.
Negativism in thought and in action never fails to be clothed by its perpetrators in some camouflage of judicial, religious or cultural nature. It has been so in the days of old and still is to this very day.
However, distance makes it far easier to recognize the outlines of the camouflage of the past than of the present. The British farmer walking through the meadows of his farm year after year will never notice the traces of an old Roman road covered by brush and grass. But the pilot aloft may readily spot them.
Most people are so deeply enmeshed in the quanta of ideas that dominate their particular pattern of society that they fail to see the growth of daily life underneath.
The textbooks and the after-dinner literature of Hitler's Germany speak with just indignation and horror of the unspeakable tortures the Christians and other captives sustained at the hands of the Caesar-dominated populace of Rome. But the very same students and the very same burghers and their chubby wives worked feverishly in rounding up Jews, Gypsies and other captives for torture and execution on a scale far more massive and far more cruel than the Caesars could envision. At least the Caesars did not subject almost a million children to suffocation in sealed trains or gas chambers in front of their own parents.
Russians might listen tearfully to the stories of their leaders, damning the awful Czar who had exiled some of their older colleagues to the Siberian tundras. That very same weepy audience roared and bellowed hoarse approval of supreme punishment by Stalin for millions of their fellow citizens, the only offense having been that they did not drop fast enough into a kowtow at the feet of the Red Marshal.
It is difficult to see the mark of Cain on the forehead of the tyrant whose frown can spell disaster. It is so much easier to overlook it. So much more comfortable; so much more practical. There is a proverb: "Silence is golden," but I think more often it is only yellow.
I do not say that the art of thinking as applied to the present is difficult and rare in itself. It is so because man is engrossed by a web of emotions and interests, desires, wishes, and fears that make him conform to the opportune pattern of the day and land. Consequently, in countries of totalitarian dominance the room for thinking beyond the set pattern is almost nil. Even in the democratic world the powers from abroad incessantly work with intrigue and cunning, promise and bribe, propaganda and deceit; and as long as such neighbors co-exist the processes of clear thinking are substantially hampered.







THE RATIONALIZERS
To practice the art of thinking one must first divorce oneself from the major misconceptions that dominate the scene. It is true that dominant misconceptions differ from nation to nation and from century to century, even from decade to decade.
Our lives are spent in an area of false signs, wrong directions and dead-end roads with only an occasional byway leading to certainty. More often than not, the directions given by past generations were posted by ill-meaning pretenders, usurpers of power, rather than by dedicated people.
For a thousand generations, the world has been in the grip of Caesarian masters whose underlying motives were simple self-advancement and avarice.
The conquerors of old, as of now, have invariably attempted, usually through hired scribes, to interpret their devious schemes and atrocious acts as planned deeds for human betterment or divine exercise. Excepting, perhaps, Julius Caesar, a typical protagonist of conquering terror, who was learned enough to set down his own apologia. Even there the savage brutality of this monstrous destroyer shines through the pages of dull self-praise.
Out of 368,000 Helvetii only 110,000 returned home. Of those lost less than 30 percent were fighting men, the others were women and children sacrificed ad majorem Caesaris gloriam. When this distinguished Roman captured Avaricam, every inhabitant of the town was put to the sword. There is mention of numerous tortures, lopping off of hands of captives and reduction to servitude of whole populations. And all this massacre by Caesar in the Gallic Wars was done for no other reason except to raise his position in Rome by building up a powerful army. The life of Caesar, like that of Alexander before him, Hitler and Stalin after him, and all tyrants between, was no more than a series of murderous tragedies for personal glorification. The so-called dynamic imperialist will never understand that in the final reckoning the only territory he retains is his rectangular plot of six by three.
Perhaps it is no less a tragedy that in our historical thinking we so often find the "professionals" like Mommsen or Hegel attributing to these wanton tyrants historic missions as the cause of their belligerency.
Naturally, the imperialist must prepare a set of justifications for his immediate tribe or nation before he can set out to conquer the world. Be his name Attila or Genghis Khan, he must endow himself with a nimbus of divine or social destiny and magnanimously lend some of that aura to his tribesmen and co-nationals in order to gain their cooperation. Then he needs to imbue them with a deep feeling of hatred against the first selected victim—this, to build up courage and ferocity—and how easy it is to indoctrinate a nation to hate! Only so armed can he rush out on the road of conquest.
If successful, in the lands where his sword was victorious his cunningly fabricated ideologies will dominate. Whether they involve polygamy or asceticism, race hatred or class hatred, superstitions, prejudices or xenophobia, they will be the principles dominating the thinking of the average man within the realm, until another conqueror comes along and merges his rationale with the old or eliminates it entirely.







PAX ROMANITAS
We think today of the Roman Empire as a gigantic step in the progress of the Western civilization. We think of Roman law and Roman peace while in fact Roman law was fundamentally no more than a huge prison codex to keep the people of the Mediterranean basin in chains so that the Caesars and the corrupt senators could live in abundant luxury. For their own soldiers, peasants and traders, the Romans had only enough bread and circuses to make them feel they were partners in the deal.
The renowned Pax Romana was a state of affairs in which on appropriate holidays and festivals, peaceful citizens of neighboring countries who had unsuccessfully defended their right of co-existence, were herded into subterranean stables and then driven into public arenas where they were burned alive, cut up alive, or eaten alive to the amusement of the Caesarian entourage.
In all of the great Roman Empire there wasn't a touch of humanitas, but forever bitter and cold Romanitas.
It is necessary to rethink one's whole concept of history. The great laws such as the Roman precepts or the constitutions of Red Russia and Red China or the regulations of Hitler's Reich are not designed for the people, but against the people. In the final analysis they appear to the thinking mind not as a guide for better living but as no more than a set of elaborate prison rules.
The Law in Rome was designed for the Old Families and the Knights (patricii et equites). The plebs were never considered people.
In Latin, history is referred to as res gestae—things done. And to think correctly in history we have to push aside the curtain of words and the curtain of traditional emphasis and look directly upon the things they have done and things they are doing still.
All the soft music of Caesarian self-justification cannot drown out the cries of the mutilated; and all the soft Suras will not make us forget the mumbling of the legless and the armless "infidels" left to die on the Arabian desert. All the metaphysical exercises of Heidegger and Sartre will not make us forget the Belsen extermination camp and Stalin's Lubianka prison or the executioner's block in Mao's Shanghai.







DAYDREAMS AND NIGHTMARES
In what I call opinionated sciences, a considerable amount of thinking is based on hastily accepted premises supported not by fact but rather by plausibility.
The Freudian premise that dream thoughts are not subject to self-censorship seems plausible, but is incorrect. Like all other theories in psychoanalysis, there is no mathematical way of proving or disproving it. But one can easily ascertain its spuriousness by sober conjecture and introspection.
I am sure, my reader, were I to ask you now, "what did you dream last night?" your only reply would be, "I can't remember." Of course you can't. You experienced a hundred dream scenes during the night in your various steps of gliding in and out of what we refer to as the silent sleep, the full or solid sleep. During the stages of gliding into your sleep or coming out of it, the mind, in its biological function of trying to rest, will hold a gigantic and intricately interwoven body of apperception and memories, and will flutter its wings until it either comes to rest or rises into the flight of complete awakening. We do not fall asleep; we glide into sleep, and we do not awaken with a start unless startled.
To make much of these faint dream moments of the sleeping mind is to elevate simple biological stages of relaxing nerves and tissues into mystic teleology.
We dream a hundred dreams a night, but the only one we sometimes remember a lightning few seconds of is the last one of the lot, just before we awaken, and there is as little mystery to this last one as to those never recalled.
Superstitious people of antiquity and some peoples of our own days who are enchanted by the primitive cults of astrology, amulets, fortune telling and dream analysis may be quite upset by finding themselves awake in the midst of a nasty dream of falling from a bridge or watching their house burn down.
Every person thus upset will, with some effort, find an interpreter (usually paid) of the nasty dream. But we had to wait for the twentieth century to take dream interpretation out of the hands of priests, witches and gypsies and turn this whole "science" over to a segment of the medical profession, once removed, as it were.
However, I doubt if the change of venue is a change in validity. We dream a hundred dreams during the night although few but the last seem to reach our conscious awareness. If the body tosses about a hundred times during the sleep, the mind gives off flutters of dreams in a parallel activity. There is as little meaning to a twitching memory as to twitching muscles.
One can create dreams and change their very character by simple experimentation. Subtle means of getting the sleeper slowly into the waking stage will encourage extension of dreams. Sudden awakening will, of course, cut them short.
A simple change of food intake before retiring, from a heavy meal to a light one; change of beverage from alcoholic to simple water; change of temperature; change of the oxygen content in the room; change of activity immediately preceding retirement; change of air pressure in the room; change of humidity—all of these and a thousand other factors will have direct bearing upon the extent and nature of dreams. New vistas can be opened to the already panoramic sex analysis by arranging to have clients of the sex analysts have themselves awakened a dozen times during the night in the slow manner mentioned above. Such procedure would give them as immense harvest of additional dreams for the analyst to scan.
I am quite confident that every man and woman knows his and her ultimate as well as immediate desire in the waking stage. Truly, there is no need to consult with the oracle of Morpheus to figure out whether one desires to undress and fondle a certain female; or if one wishes to spend a yachting weekend with a certain glamorous matinee idol; or if one wishes to woo a taboo subject. There is no need for an oracle. There is no need for either profound introspection or self-analysis since every infatuated person is duly affected by desire and has a fair knowledge of the biological symptoms that accompany it.
Every one has daydreams in which the mind gives the stallion of desire full reign, having dismissed the coachman for the moment. We all have these daydreams if we let them roam to our delight and sometimes to our delusion. In these daydreams we can and do experience all the love and lust that the world forbids and society sometimes abhors. The treasure-house of daydreams with all its riches is ours and no Cerberus is at the gate.
Sometimes when a daydream is realized and the wish is reduced to action, how disappointing is reality, in comparison with the richness of imagination.
Daydreams tell the whole story of the person's life. However, few are willing to listen to their own biography.
And those who go to the sex analyst are like the woman who goes to the physician but refuses to tell him her symptoms. They want the analyst to guess from dream fragments what they have known for years in their daydreams. They want night to cast light upon what they are hiding during the day!
Perhaps they want the truth to be covered and not unfolded; or their sins in all their bareness to be masked by a web of terminology; or excused, so that instead of repenting they may hold their heads up in a rationalization, like the conqueror of old who kneels before the oracle wanting not advice, but rather justification.
Dreaming man has ever been an object of curiosity to spectator as well as introspector: The body riding temporarily under guidance of an automatic pilot.
To find meaning, however, in the thought processes of sleepers was a special prerogative of ancient soothsayers, African voodooists and a shy Victorian hypnotist of Vienna tormented by an incestual predilection.
Perhaps some determined candidate for a Ph.D. will some day clarify the bizarre symbolism of the three great hallowers of the dream world and explain the underlying reason for the differences in interpretation of dreams by soothsayers, voodooists and sex analysts. I personally heard Dr. Sigmund Freud interpret a bridge as "unmistakably indicative of sexual play"; I read in a Caribbean booklet on dreams that a bridge hints at a break with friends; and I find in Egyptian archeology a bridge hieroglyph used as a warning sign of war.
I feel at this moment like a devotee of astrology in receipt of horoscopes from three stargazers puzzling me with different prognostications.
Is that perchance, the motive for Lenin's prohibiting the practice of sex analysis and in the same paragraph forbidding fortune telling and palmistry?
Do we think as we sleep? And is there a mystic meaning to such dream thoughts?
The soothsayers, voodooists and sex analysts say there is. Furthermore, they each claim ownership of the sole and true key to the treasure chest of the semi-conscious. To them every dream thought has profound significance. In fact dreams are the only true thoughts, they claim, because at waking hours the "endopsychic censor" blocks the gate to consciousness of all but socially acceptable ideas.
It reminds one of the bleak threat of the witch of Halloween: Search in your dreams; therein lies the truth.
I do not pretend to know what dreams are, but I venture to guess what they are not.
Dreams are censored by our emotionally rooted concepts, prejudices and interests. For instance, I dreamt last night of a party where I made reference to Pitt. I recall clearly my not mentioning the astonishing youth of the prime minister, because the son of my host who was present was of similar age and rather delayed in his career.
The reader of this page may, if she or he so wishes, keep an eye out for the "automatic pilot" in their dreams exercising the very same control as upon conscious ideas.
Man can dream-think without control or censorship but not while asleep; rather, while awake. In daydreams, and in daydreams only, can man chuck his moral censor, and cohabit with the moon if he so wishes, climb over the bodies of his opponents, annihilate an objectionable rabble single-handed, or rise to stage and glory unencumbered.
In this sense daydreams are a mirror of man's emotion-rooted mind; the mind adream is not idling rudderless but rather is floating in still waters with the pilot of his constant prejudices and interests standing by.
The panorama of dreams will change in an array of a thousand scenes, drifting to and fro—but, it is only in daydreams that people become Lilith and Beelzebub, and dropping their clothes, cavort shamelessly with persons pulled in from boulevard, parlor, stage and museums by a lusty mind.
I should like to mention also that some of the rather mature and prosperous ladies and lisping young men who adorn the couches of our sex analysts are rather inclined to dramatize themselves by coloring their legitimate dreams with an imagination which is nearer to their ardor than accuracy. Consulting the records of some of my friends in that profession, I was impressed with the almost poetic—in the sense of modern Lolita fiction—gift of fabrication. Needless to emphasize, this all sprang from a condition of dozing but awake consciousness with an alleged dream state used as alibi rather than actual condition.	
If women of fifty, sixty, and seventy still feel they must adjust their sex life, they merely want to make themselves and others believe that the canal of inverted biology they are seeking is a fresh and clean river of life.







THE LAW IS GUILTY
When I was a boy I thought that the motorman of the electric streetcar had to turn the wheel at every curve or else the car would jump its track. It took the boy years to find out that the track itself determined all directions, not the motorman.
Equally, in law, the man out front merely obeys signals and signs as the wheels obey the tracks. Legal thinking rarely runs off the beaten track, rather it remains within the confinement of a prescribed code.
Every code has its master and the law is merely its commentary, its custodian.
The art of legal thinking begins where the law ends. The law interprets and safeguards a code of certain men. It differs from time to time and place to place as its masters differ.
The law of Spain guards the code of Franco and the Soviet law that of Stalin and Khrushchev. The law of Russia gently caresses a citizen blaspheming God and church; the law of Spain today (or of the same Russia a moment of time ago) would damn him.
The law of Pakistan smiles upon a citizen harboring four wives in his home; the law of Turkey today would indict him, while hardly a generation ago, the very same Turkey also would have smiled.
The law follows the whims of the code and the code lies like a magic wand in the grip of its master.
The law of Arkansas grins when a boy whistles at a girl. But if the boy is black and the girl is white, the law clamps shut its teeth of confinement on years out of the boy's life.
The law of Arkansas forbids the Negro citizen to eat or drink in a public place frequented by whites, or send his children to a school attended by whites, or enter a hospital reserved for whites. There are a thousand similar and worse precepts on the law books not only of Arkansas; other such abominations prosper under our constitution.
There are laws in Soviet Russia that prohibit the Jew from sanctifying the birth of his son in his ancient ritual; laws that prohibit the Jew from eating unleavened bread at Passover; laws that exclude him from running for public office; laws that threaten a death penalty for giving alms or succor to his brethren in Israel; laws that encourage the defamation and closing of his houses of worship; laws that delimit him in higher education; laws that prohibit his travel abroad. Such is the law in Russia.
Need I remind the reader of the Nuremberg Laws of Hitler which dominated Central Europe for a decade from Bergen to Brindisi, from the Black Sea to the Atlantic Ocean?
The law is not a chalice of holiness to be revered; it is but a cutting sword to be watched. To think within the law according to the current pattern of local society is tempting; to think beyond the law is the real task.
It is beyond the law where the real thinking begins. And beyond the law is the code. What is a code? It is a manner of community existence which the powers that be have imposed upon the people. For that reason the code differs with the dominus rex.
Although in the Western world efforts often have been made by radicals as well as well-meaning conservatives to transfer the code into the hands of the people, they have been only partially successful, least of all in the so-called "peoples' democracies" where labor leaders established hard-core dictatorships not of the people, but over the people.
The ball is completely in the hands of cliques who would not let the masses even touch it. The law is a book of prison rules within which the common people live. It was written by learned men at the pleasure of the masters and always reads as if God-given and morally ordained. There never was a shortage of scholars to do the bidding of the exalted. There never was a precept too mean, be it in Dixie or Stalin-land, to receive a sanctimonious and scholarly rationalization.
From time immemorial men who usurped or inherited power upheld a code through which they endeavored to retain and perpetuate their power. The intricate legal ramifications of such codes of conduct are, even in our times, for the larger part of the world no more than safeguards of tyrannical excesses.
It is noteworthy that most of these legal systems, such as the constitutions of Soviet Russia, Red China, Spain, Ghana, and so on, read like guarantees of freedom, but in reality are only certificates of bondage.
The man in China, for instance, has no right of assembly, no freedom of press or speech, no right to strike or travel, no right to conjugal living with his family, no rights to any property no matter how small, no choice of work or leisure—in fact, he is just a nameless cog in the machinery of the commune. Still the law of China as set down in its Red constitution reads like a parchment of people's privileges. Jurists made it read like that at the behest of Man, who masterminded the code.
The King of Yemen, whose personal executioner chops off a citizen's hand because he stole an orange, feels no regrets or compunctions because the monarch appears convinced he is only carrying out the letter of the law. Neither does the King of Saudi Arabia suffer remorse in taxing the sale in the open market of slave girls to be debauched by sheiks and sundry. Such is the law.
And the heads of the Western, as well as the so-called Socialist world, vie for the favors of these two and other law-observing Kings.
In our own Southern states we have a law with two sets of books, one for whites only and one for whites in their relationship with blacks. The second set of law books, however, is based purely on precedent: the punishments of the blacks are inscribed in bloody red; punishment for whites who sin against the Negroes is written in disappearing ink.
Such below-the-belt justice, of course, has been and still is practiced in African and Asian countries alike. The untouchable in India will as little dare to enter a courthouse to sue a high caste as he would a Hindu temple or a festival of the ruling classes. No wonder the untouchables say the law is like a snake, slippery and fork-tongued.
Codes are established to protect the power and property and family-perpetuation of the dominant. For that matter the highest offense is that of treason against the master. In England during the middle ages and the cultural renaissance the punishment for treason, which included any criticism of the King, was the cutting off of the testicles of the offender and having them burned before his eyes. Let it not be forgotten that until the last century in good old England, a man, woman, or child was hanged for stealing anything above the value of two pounds. There were numerous cases of hanging twelve-year-olds for just such offenses.
In Alabama at the moment of this writing, a Negro farmer got six years on the chain gang for arranging to disappear with a few bags of chicken feed.
In the People's Republic of Poland, a group of field hands received the death penalty for stealing food from the collective farm.
In the Soviet Union men and women repeatedly were punished with decades of Siberian incarceration, and execution, for so-called black market activities. In Soviet Russia as well as China men were frequently executed for negligence on a job, negligence that would cause loss of property to the government. Even scientists and high officials were Siberianized if the plans for which they had responsibility failed.
It is logical that the law drafted for protection of the dominant code be most severe with the offender against the power and property of the code master. Treason and property damage, therefore, rate uppermost in the pages of the respective books of law.
When grandfather was a boy in civilized Austria, a poacher was shot in cold blood for snaring a rabbit and in America a man was strung up for stealing a horse from the stable.
In these same countries men were perpetrating thousandfold deeds of evil—maltreating the weaker, robbing the poor and riding roughshod over the helpless—with little or no restraint or punishment by the law. The law seems to be little concerned over the oppression of the weak and indigent, but readily shows its teeth when the property code is in danger.
Somehow, to me the governor who shuts the schools so little black girls should not share in learning with the white ones is a far greater criminal than the peasant who runs short of a bag of chicken feed.
To me, the Red mandarin who decapitates a farmer who refuses to part from wife and child and live in men's barracks as a serf of the commune is a far greater criminal than the worker who blackmarkets an extra pair of shoes.
To me the philosopher of Heidelberg who bolstered Hitler's prestige and position by calling him leader of a new and better Europe is a more dangerous criminal than the storekeeper who cheated on taxes.
But the governor is still haranguing the legislature, Mao is living it up in the palace in Peking, the philosopher draws a fancy pension from a remarkably forgetful government; while the little peasant, the factory worker, the storekeeper all rot in jail.
It is the wrong people who occupy the jails of the world and the law is wrong that puts them there and keeps the real criminals out.
I am told there are twenty-six million people in jails right now, of whom more than two thirds are incarcerated behind the Iron Curtain. The good Lord could not have made that many law-breakers. And if the law put them there, there is something wrong with the law.
But in many parts of the world, the criminals make the law.
The law needs to be taken out of the hands of the offenders and given to the people who will administer it not as a code for the power-greedy and power-drunk, but for the welfare of the common man.







THE DEVIL AND THE SKIN
Most people would belittle a judicial process by which a man is convicted or acquitted without all the witnesses (or at least all the important ones) presenting their testimony. Still, every day of the week, every hour of the day, they themselves pass judgment with only a cursory glance at the evidence and often without any hearing at all.
To think is to judge; to approve or criticize (from the Greek krinei) means to pass judgment.
Even an impartial judge would be hard-pressed in resolving major crimes—some ancient, some offering no precedent—if he were consistently being subjected to deliberate misinformation, false witness, handsome bribes, intimidated defendants, indirect threats, doctored documents, and added to all this, ironbound rules of the dominant books of law.
The average man finds himself in a similar position, called upon in the midst of a working day to pass judgment on the great and little issues of life in the community. Prejudices, deeply ingrained; indoctrination by school and press; subtle pressure from friends, neighbors, and compatriots; personal and professional advantages to be gained; traditional intolerance toward individual research; lopsided information passed as statistics—all these and many more make up the background pattern out of which a concise judgment is born.
Man's ideas do not travel singly; they travel in quanta, in intricate sets of thought patterns, and man has been coached in thinking within the framework of these quanta, never beyond. From early childhood on, school, home and community urge acceptance of their respective patterns on the growing individual. Home will brook no undisciplined straying from the family ideology.
The schools have made the task of independent thinking more difficult by stressing the readiness of an answer rather than its depth. Timing tests and replies makes for snap instead of sound judgment.
Whoever watched the faces of Little Rock teenagers, girls and boys alike, reviling and stoning Negro pupils, could see the sad stage of their evil thought patterns. One cannot inject a single healthy moral concept in such quanta of mire; one has to break the pattern to make headway and heartway.
The acts of barbarians, whether of Roman or Teutonic ferocity, are all the result of horrible thought patterns stealthily woven around a people. And often when the cunning artificers of those veils of infamy have long ceased their undoing, their patterns live on and combine with new ones. Thus we find the world of today ensnared from end to end in hate ideologies and hate alliances, nation against nation, group against group, class against class, and color against color.
How different they appear to each other with their skins on! There is a legend among the ancient Hebrews that to the Devil man appears without skin, hide or hair. And the Devil put the skin on him that man may think his liver, lung or heart different from the rest.
The Devil in the skin! What misery have those millions suffered, those with the black, brown, and yellow skins in Asia and Africa, and only a little less in the towns of our own country!
Our grandparents dealt with the blacks like cattle, and the pattern of thought from which our parental notions sprang has changed its manner, it seems, but not its direction.
There are still so many in the North as well as the South who are reluctant to upset the vicious pattern of Negro-baiting by a sudden change. Deal gently with the Devil, they say, you might tread on his hoofs and hurt his feelings.
I say the world is full of vicious patterns; you cannot inject a breath of fresh air into a putrid miasma and hope for immediate invigoration.
But, first and foremost, the ones who wish to think for themselves must start by themselves. The first step to clear judgment is hesitance; the second is to lend an ear to all the witnesses, those long gone and those coming up; the third is the most difficult, to question all testimony concerning purpose and motive.
Our sages say the stone of wisdom is bound in the veil of a bride. Find charity and you have found the stone of wisdom. Truth is the sagacity of the heart, and out of hate can grow no understanding.







THE CRIME OF PUNISHMENT
We are daily called upon to pass judgment on what is right or wrong, just or unfair, proper or immoral. In most instances, society seeks only our tacit approval or indignation, unless we are part of the public judiciary.
Few bother ever to think out the issue involved, whether it relates to verdict or punishment.
To most people, "It is the law" suffices to calm the conscience and pacify the compunctions. They think the law holy and humane. The law is neither. The law may have its head under a halo, but its feet are in the mud.
The word law stems, significantly enough, from the Latin: It implies a gathering (legare) of fixed rules of conduct, prohibitions as well as commands issued from above.
A thousand years before Romulus and Remus suckled from the wolfhound in the seven hills, there was gathered such an array of precepts by King Hammurabi of Babylon. There were others, I am sure, a thousand years anteceding the King's.
The Code of Hammurabi is a classical example of measuring crime in terms of property value. "An eye for an eye," yes, but whose eye? That was the question. Death or injury to a servant appears as a minor offense; against the King's favored subject, a major one. Despite its savage aspects, the Babylonian code is a testament of civilization compared to the law practices of later millennia.
The ruler protects first himself, then his property. In Pharaonic Egypt all inhabitants were the ruler's property, but some were more so than others. There were among the Egyptians, as well as among the Babylonians, Persians, Greeks, and Romans, some laws forbidding maltreatment of slaves, quite similar to ours for the protection of animals against cruelty. Damage to a servant was dealt with like damage to a horse or cow. Pre-Civil War state laws in our South imposed similar fines upon those mutilating or killing a slave. Our grandparents differed little from the legal advisers of Rameses or Xerxes.
Property protection was and still is featured in law, as is sanctity of the ruler.
Criticism of the ruler will bring about the same punishment today in the Nile Valley as it did before the Sphinx spread its stony paws on the sands. Millions of people in Russia, Germany, China, Arabia, Cuba, and so many other lands are confined to dungeons or decapitated for breaking the other most important law of the world: criticism of the ruler.
More than half of the world lives by this law of holding the ruler sacrosanct. The amazing thing is that people find these laws perfectly acceptable and make light of a head rolling in punishment, or even cheer like Castro's mob and China's sneering masses.
The law is a harlot and harlequin.
The ruler of course is equally determined to protect his property as well as his reputation; therefore any threat to the ruler's ownership becomes a capital crime. Such breaches of the law are commonly known as crimes against the state.
The Caesar of today as well as of yesterday identifies the State with himself. L'état c'est moi! The state controls all property, the ruler controls the state. Stealing a bag of grain from the granary of the King of Yemen might be punished by cutting off the hand of the thief; to steal one from the commune in China might mean winding up in the mine pit forever, if not under the axe.
Of course, Castro and Hitler, Mao and Khrushchev, Nasser and Kadar, actually own nothing but their drab tunics—it's the State that has it all, or rather the People of the State. But somehow in these systems of benevolence, the People are forever groveling in the dirt while the drab tunic houses in the palace.
The law is an assembly of prison regulations for the people with necessary privileges given the guards and trustees.
Created primarily as a code to conserve the Chief's property, reputation and progeny, the law indirectly benefits the Chief's henchmen.
The good philosopher Plato gave little space in his laws to the òi polloi, the people; they do not matter, he felt. He was basically interested in the King and the Warriors and, of course, the Priests. Aristotle, King Alexander's private tutor, felt the same way. The slaves are born slaves. It is Godordained that there are free fighting men and slaves in service, and whoever disagrees is a twister, a sophist.
One must bear in mind that there are more slaves in bondage today than in the years of Tutankhamen or Ahasuerus. A slave is a person not master of his own freedom, confined to a certain place, separated from kin and friends, laboring without pay at an enforced task. We have more than 26 million such creatures in the camps and gaols of the twentieth century. We all know of the dread labor camps of Russia, China and their satellites, of the prisons in Egypt, Yugoslavia and Cuba, and of the chain gangs and jails in our shadowy South.
But even in the civilized sections of our Western and Eastern world there live millions of persons in virtual slavery, permanent or time-limited. Those prisoners are no more than persons in bondage and, horribile dictu, bonded in most cases because of infringement upon property. Property, the sensitive nerve of the law.
We still have not learned that there are things greater than possessions and that justice must be beyond the law. Justice begins where the law ends.
In our state of Vermont, the highest penalty for rape is a fine of $2,000—the fine for a theft of $2,000 is 5 to 10 years in bondage. What a low price to pay for terror and inhumanity, what a fearful price to pay for property!
In the state of Indiana, there died recently Henry Sullivan, aged 85, who served 63 years of imprisonment because at the age of 14 he stole twenty dollars worth of machinery from an abandoned mill.
In one of our Southern states white neighbors of a grown woman beat to death a fourteen-year-old black boy for whistling at her. Known to the local and federal authorities, they could not be punished. Such is the double-standard law in that state.
I could fill a shelf with examples and cases elaborating the point. To those who think, a hint suffices; to those who don't, no mass of evidence is great enough to upset their prejudices.







QUANTA THEORIES
People by and large only imagine they have different ideas. Generally speaking, they have merely adopted from the dominant thought-quantas some which vary from the rest of those available. Rarely does a mind rise eager and able to brush aside the Gestalten that shape his narrow thinking alley and cut out for himself a new original path.
Man thinks not in individual ideas, but rather in quantas, in patterns. The Chinese thinks in patterns different from the Indian and the Indian in different ones from the European. The Pakistani pattern of love and marriage is as different from that of the Hebrew as the Russian notions about citizenship from the American.
Within the framework of these thought patterns minor divergences and interpretations create an impression of differences of opinion which on occasion, such as election periods, appear deeper than they are.
It also happens that some individuals, stealthily and on purpose, will exchange their native pattern for foreign ones, and then in a planned manner, sway the gullible and the indifferent to consider the alien cause their own. While the motives of the renegades are usually to gain obvious pecuniary, social or political advantage, there seems to be room not only for the paid renegade and the naÏve renegade, but for a paying renegade. The paying renegade is attracted by such desires as vanity or lust for notoriety.
You will find cold industrialists debasing their native culture and democracy before a foreign tyrant in pretentious bids for friendship. In reality, all they yearn for is the inevitable notoriety following such tail-grabbing. They lust for the front page and don't mind playing monkey-in-the-cage to Khrushchev if it is the quickest way to get there. The number of millionaire-communists or similar nuisances is rather small because it presupposes a rather childish frame of mind combined with almost criminal recklessness, similar to that of the boob who runs to the police accusing himself of a murder he never committed just to hit the headlines.
Patterns of thought dominating the countries are the outgrowth of multiple influences. Every once in a while a man rises who imposes his will and wish upon these patterns and we find new Gestalten towering over the scene. The Soviet Russian patterns differ from the Soviet Chinese patterns because they were first impressed upon the respective peoples by different interpreters and furthermore, because they fell on already existing patterns of great variation. Marxism fell in Russia on Czarism and in China on Confucianism, Buddhism and Taoism. The old patterns of thought were further modified by the impact of Leninism, Stalinism, or Maoism.
In each of the two huge lands the people imagine they are thinking for themselves. In reality the new patterns, a conglomerate of multiple traditions and new dictates, do all the thinking for them.
They are not thinking, they are being thought for.
In order to think, man must first extricate himself from the web of traditional thought patterns. He must learn to swim, not just float.
If patterns of thought were the product of healthy, natural accumulation of tradition based on goodness and public welfare, it would surely be best to let things be as they are. But patterns dominating the horizons over this hectic globe are packed full of hate and greed which grow ideas of war and destruction.
What is the nature of thought patterns darkening the skies in Arkansas or Louisiana where governors and legislators and citizens galore spew venom against a few little colored girls going to school like other folk? What became of the elements of Christianity and education in their patterns? These elements seem to evaporate into the same poisonous fumes that befogged the brains of their grandparents who sold their colored neighbors on the auction block like a a sack of beans.
What became of the elements of Christianity and education in the thought pattern of the Germans when they assembled a million children of the very faith of their Savior's parents and choked them to death in boxcars and shower rooms? It seems if a Führer or Duce promises the plebs enough conquering greatness and loot they will walk over corpses to reach it.
If you asked a German during the Hitler glory about issues of kill and cut he would offer you solid reasons involving right, might, and even the good God. There was nothing wrong with his logic; only his pattern was foul, abysmally foul.
What became of gentle humanism and sweet Buddhism in Russia and China when Stalin and Mao swung the executioner's axe over the necks of innocent men? Where were the voices of the people protesting this butchery?
Where are they? The axe is still falling. From Hungary to Viet Nam, from Peking to Cuba, the Marxists are mute. They are deaf to the cries of the executed and Siberianized.
But like the Nazis of recent years, they have a fund of arguments and solid reasons for the need of butchery so that humanity be secure. There is nothing wrong with their logic. What's wrong is their pattern; it floats on a sea of hate, envy and greed, and from such humus only dragon seed can grow.
It takes a heroic heart and deep insight to pull one's mind out of the mire of hate pattern. Hate has great fascination. To nothing does man veer more readily than to hate. The tyrant knows what the people do not suspect: that hate is the greatest unifier. Hate always marks the beginning of tyranny. Make the people hate a common enemy and they will forget everything and everyone else.
Hate has been the secret weapon of dictators since time began. All ideologies of all reformers mean nothing if hate is the common bond of their pattern of life. No arguments will win out against raisonnement born of hate.







SHODDY EMOTIONS AND SHODDY IDEAS
People give birth to false ideas. Perhaps the word "false" is too pretentious because in the field of non-applied knowledge or opinionated theorizing in the humanities, there is hardly anything that can be called true or false without a strong undertone of pretentiousness.
Therefore, I would say rather that shoddy emotions give birth to shoddy ideas.
Words and deeds indicating thought processes of magnanimity, humility, and denial can be dominated equally well by shallow as by lofty emotions. Some religious leaders appear not to have been able to distinguish between the two. Some religious leaders seem unreservedly to have accepted humility, self-denial, magnanimity in action and word as the face of profundity.
The maltreated slave who by change of fortune has the tormentor in his hands and forgets the tyrant's inhumanity—such forgiveness is neither virtue nor nobility. Imagine, they have the power to be magnanimous towards the man in the big boot; the man with the whip; the man whose bellow spreads terror near and far! Their ego is flattered by magnanimity. Their thoughts of forgiveness, of forgetfulness, of empathy with the devil himself are not born of a noble heart, but rather of vanity and inferiority.
Men of the church often have been wary of over-zealous self-abasement. Their reluctance to admit self-debasers to exalted position appears time and again.
One can show off poverty as well as riches, neglect as well as cleanliness. Quite a few saintly persons appear to have considered dirtiness next to Godliness. To me, the beggar with rips in his cloak, the medieval itinerant preacher who kissed the sores of the stricken, who washed not, to rebuke vanity, was perhaps the most vain of them all. He brags with his neglect as brazenly as the bon vivant with his incense for the Lord and his sinecure.
The posture of the ascetics, the beggars, or any other of the overbearing flagellant and hirsute braggadoccios is an expression not of profound religious feeling, but rather of an insufferably vain personage, incapable or unwilling to travel the broad road of accomplishment. They attempt to take a short cut to the heaven of recognition by prostration and self-humiliation.
The gate to religious wisdom lies in serenity and not in servility.
By and large, the minds of the people are dominated by misbeliefs, superstitions and astonishingly untrue thought patterns. I will not deny that much of what is expressed by contemporaries adhering to those beliefs is said tongue in cheek, but it is being said and written about as if they were truths and not imaginary figments.
The people in India profess to the theory of man being animated by a wandering soul which changes its abode according to the moral conduct of its respective carrier. When the carrier expires, the soul will go either up or down, into a holy infant, a cow, or a roach. The people of India who so believe act accordingly and shudder at the very thought of killing a roach or eating a cow.
The people of the Christian world could never forgive the small Jewish nation that gave birth to Jeshu Ben Joseph, called Jesus the Messiah, or Christ. They could never forgive it for refusing to accept the theorem that this good Prophet of Israel, this benevolent and dedicated preacher, was God Himself walking the pavement of Jerusalem.
The Greeks could never forgive Socrates his irony in speaking of the Olympians mingling with the mortals of Hellas.
The inhabitants of the Islamic belt from Morocco to Borneo, from Pakistan to Sudan, think it perfectly abominable to drink a glass of wine, but consider it good manners for a gentleman to spend his nights with four women in a bed.
The Christians, in more millions than the Moslems can muster, find the drinking of a glass of wine good manners but condemn sex multiplicity.
A billion people in China, Russia and its satellites consider themselves the only true democrats because there is no contest at election time, since they all vote for the one officially nominated slate. They decry lack of freedom in the Western world while they themselves enjoy no freedom of speech, no freedom of assembly, no freedom of travel, no freedom of job choice, no freedom to strike, no freedom to write or publish, no freedom of education of their children, no freedom of independent domicile, no freedom of \ entertainment, no freedom even of choice of language.
Still, those billion people, by an amazing mental flip, manage to bewail the free West as being enslaved, considering themselves as living in absolute freedom and democracy.
But not only on these grand levels do the people of the world live in misbeliefs. In a hundred other little ways do they travel, guided not by reason but rather by traditional patterns and modish changes. Very few persons indeed take the trouble truly to examine the ideologies they live by and the attitudes by which they think.







THE MUSEUM OF WORDS
Thinking on beauty, or esthetics, has been taking an ever increasing space in spoken and written word. Actually there is no such thing as thinking about beauty. Rather we are dealing here with thoughts about the impact beauty has on the individual.
The experiences of beauty or ugliness are processes of sensory and emotional perceptivity. The accompanying thought streams are casual, incidental, and of late, frequently as deliberate as they are boring irrelevance.
While one looks at a sun-kissed valley spread out for miles before the eye, casual thoughts may run through the mind differing, of course, from viewer to viewer. One may experience the pleasing sensory perception of the view as one may experience the displeasing sensations of stepping into a filthy barnyard.
While the ugliness of the barnyard will hardly ever inspire the trespasser to more than a one-syllable reaction, it seems that many viewers of a pleasing arrangement, be it a mountain top, a lake or a man-made bit of art, feel the need not of silence but rather of verbosity.
They look at a well-proportioned statue, the painting of a biblical scene or a mythological fresco done by craftsmen upon the order of a prince or bishop and the urge comes to talk, to compare the marble and the bronze, the pigment and the brush strokes, the historicity or the lack of it, the meaning or likelihood of meaning. All this verbiage, these mountains of comparative dialectics, leads, of course, to no end but while it is being carried on it gives them a sense of erudition.
Suddenly these craftsmen whom the princes hired to brighten up their boudoirs and drawing rooms with a bit of fancy allegory or whom the bishops hired to freshen the altar, suddenly these artisans loom like giants of philosophy whose every brush stroke or chisel bang carries with it profound metaphysical insights of considerable symbolic significance.
Although these works of art were by and large ordered, approved and often suggested by carousing aristocrats of rather worthless mentality or pitifully dull churchmen, some tired minds with strong but misplaced desires to be thinkers, succeeded in making esthetes of themselves by filling page after page about the existing multitudes of floor, wall and ceiling decoration.
One is reminded of Hamlet's reply, "Words, words, words," when Polonius inquired, "What are you reading, sire?"
There is no thinking about beauty possible because beauty is purely a reaction of the sense, refined or otherwise, to a given object. What we commonly call esthetics is merely a discussion of background and mechanical detail and often a quite useless encroachment upon the privacy of a craftsman's personal life.
To understand art is to feel the sensory impact of its beauty. Everything beyond that is either incidental or superfluous.
A tremendous body of literature has grown about the pretty pieces of decoration that have been produced in thousands of years of craftsmanship. Excepting the purely historical and qualitative organization of the material on hand, much of that literature is, to say the least, of tremendous insignificance. Much of it is a play on comparative evaluations, unjustified attributions of cogitative characteristics to peasant artisans, sublime theory to glass cutters, ideological profundity to dull-witted little brushwielders.
There were among these artisans a few men of learning and some of grace and nobility, as there are today, but the overwhelming majority had little to say. What appears in paint or bronze is no more and no less than what meets the eye.







THE NAKED KING
If art is the aggregate of man-made or natural subjects creating a sensory feeling of beauty in man, and esthetics is the supposed thinking in connection with it, meaningful or otherwise, the last few decades have brought to the foreground, especially in the United States and France, a new kind of abstract esthetics without art.
No one in his right mind (and this small book is addressed to persons who make an effort to think right) can deny that the non-objective or abstract type of work fails to arouse in the viewer the sensory feeling of beauty.
In the case of abstractionism, we are faced with so-called esthetic thinking without art. The dots and dashes, the spots and splashes, the twisted bric-a-brac of iron and all the smudgy newspaper collages—none of these by the widest stretch of imagination can or does create a sensory feeling of beauty in any normal person. Those who speak otherwise are like the people in the fairy tale watching the naked king walk while they exclaim over what a magnificent cloak His Majesty is wearing, because if they told the truth of the king's nakedness, by the king's own pronouncement they would be considered fools and amateurs.
Abstractionism, or non-objectivism, is today's naked Majesty, strutting down the highway of art with the people too embarrassed to explain the obvious unsightly bareness of it all.
Parallel to these esthetics without an art object is the equally new cacography of two-nosed women and buck-toothed horses produced by the sly old Spaniard and the infantile drawingboard exercises of the pathological Klee.
It is astonishing to ponder the verbiage a yellow or green splash smeared on a blackened canvas can cause to flow from the mouth or pen of some of our newly oriented art critics. Faced with a few abortive smudges from an illiterate brush usually appearing within the security of a heavy frame, and reading some of the professional reviews of the split-second concoctions or two-minute hole-in-the-middle ceramic wonders, I am really confounded concerning the inexhaustible source of the epitaphic vocabulary these critics can muster to describe a near nothing with such brilliant adjectives. It is truly astonishing how multiple much can be said about nothing. There must be some magic to it that creates gushes of plenty in the face of such dire paucity.
But there are no thoughts within these words. How long words can stand up without thoughts in them only time can tell.







THE LOGIC OF SNOBBISM
One might assume that the teaching of thinking falls as a prime duty upon the schools. To what extent they discharge themselves of this duty is problematical. I would say that one cannot teach thinking but one can hamper it and confuse it.
Thinking comes from the whole body just as feeling comes from the body. In fact, there is no thinking except the applied reasoning of mathematics or chemistry which is not subject to emotional motivation.
For that very cause the key of correct thinking lies not in what is commonly called mind but in emotional attitude.
The child in New Orleans who reasons that his dark-skinned classmate is a monstrous alien, reasons as well as his colleague in the North. What is wrong is not the mind, but the emotional attitude.
To make children think straight one must make them feel right.
A child filled with hate, envy and arrogance will by necessity become imbued with the logic of intolerance and prejudice.
Snobbism has its logic just as civility has. The logic is the same. It is the mental activation of the body and can reason for its emotional master—greed and arrogance—in the same way that the logic of the benevolent will reason on behalf of goodness and toleration. The world has acquired a tremendous amount of knowledge in the last 500 years but has not become better for it because this knowledge, concentrated in science and technology, improved little but speed and comfort. Man's conduct toward man has hardly improved. Indeed one is almost inclined to assume that science and technology are primarily in the service of destruction. No matter what share of their national income the major countries of the world may have allotted to science, we are safe in assuming that it is mainly devoted to war science, while only the crumbs fall to medicine and other fields of scientific welfare. Science without humanistic direction is not beneficial but rather dangerous. The rocket men of Hitler and the spacemen of Khrushchev were ever used as a threat to peace and not in the service of it.







HEART AND THE MIND
If the thinking of the world is to be improved by education then the schools must regard it as a prime obligation to change the emotional outlook of the pupils in order to correct their thinking. If the children in Peking, Moscow and Havana are instilled with hate against the people of America their later thinking will breathe that hate. And the nefarious ideologies of their hidden masters will seem to the youth as logical as the ethics of cooperation appear to those who live and study in true democracy and true freedom. This is rather a pessimistic view of the chances for betterment in education in many places abroad. In our own country the people of good heart can bring their influence to bear upon those who are weighted with false tradition. The guide to. wisdom is the heart and the heart alone. But in the other half of the world where only the hoarse cry of world conquest is permitted to be heard, there is little hope for the still voices of goodness to fellow man.
Stepped up to the utmost, science education may improve dexterity in fashioning new pieces for the serious game of world competition, but it will not improve the thinking that matters, namely, the thinking of man about man.
Perhaps we cannot stop the race. Let's not forget that the sword may bring war to an end but there is more to peace than the absence of fighting. To live in peace and bring such life to the world at large we have to muster the forces of peace that enlighten man's emotional attitude. It is the religio, the binding of man to man, that must be foremost on the curriculum of all the schools of all the lands. Only the thinking that stems from such emotion will carry with it the logic of peace.







BRAIN-WASHING AND BRAIN-SOILING
While the process of thinking is quite identical in all men, the respective status of knowledge differs from man to man.
Regrettably, the term "knowledge" is used indiscriminately for a body of facts, implying knowing. Certain things we all know. We know the effect of heat upon the skin or a cutting edge upon our blood vessel. A thousand facts are known to all of us, the aborigine of Australia, the fisherman in the Aleutian Islands or the scholar at Cambridge. This type of knowledge relating to matter, be it as subtle as the Unified Field Theory or as direct as the pulling out of a thorn by a native African's skillful hand, is basically identical in all men. It is cumulative in character and, if properly recorded, will grow in substance as the years go by. It is rarely disputable, although occasionally one point of knowledge will be replaced or overriden by new information.
In physics, mathematics, chemistry, meteorology, geology, medicine, aerospace, basic laws will be found, added to, and revised, but with little dispute since thinking along the lines of technological issues is identical from man to man.
There is no motivation in the field of science and technology to dispute facts if they are properly presented and even a plausible hypothesis will find ready acceptance until a better one comes along. In this realm of scientific and technological thinking, the issue lies rather in improving the quantity of study than the quality of thought attitude.
In addition to this type of knowledge germane to our relationship with matter, there is the great and only partly charted realm of understanding of man's relationship to fellow man. In this sphere, man's thinking differs from time to time and place to place and individual to individual.
Here we enter the area of motivated thinking, a process in which deliberate as well as unconscious emotional factors determine the direction and intensity of thought. The social ideologies of a person growing up in Little Rock are quite different from those of the inhabitant of Rio de Janeiro where the color of the skin does not determine the social position of the citizens.
The thought image of the Jew in the mind of the Ukrainian of the Stalin era or the Prussian of the Hitler era is quite different from that of the average Westerner. They all have the same arithmetic and apply the same chemistry, but when they touch upon problems of opinionated knowledge, such as the faculties of history, anthropology, ethics, sociology, even literature and art, they each fall into different thought patterns with no end of confusion, misconception and propaganda.
We must, therefore, clearly separate the knowledge of matter from social thinking.
It is the art of social thinking that is in dire need of clarification and improvement. Events of present-day history have proven—if more proof were necessary—that the momentous increase of our scientific and technological understanding has had little effect upon the social thinking of the people, immured in their traditional as well as propagandistic thought patterns. Frigidity and antagonism prevail; suspicion and deceit are dominant; and the horror of the millions that have perished in this generation by the sanguine inhumanity of man is challenged only by the anguish of a greater terror hanging over a world that is dedicating its very best thinking to physical matter, leaving ethics and religion as afterthought.
In the totalitarian atmosphere, while one half of the minds are preoccupied with the application of science to material things, especially their military uses, the other half is engaged in a gigantic process of what is euphemistically referred to as brain-washing but in reality is brain-soiling. The brains of the young in China, Russia and their satellites are being deliberately and steadily enmeshed in a web of hate-born and hate-created prejudices concerning the free world, driving the coming generations to an almost inevitable collision.
For that reason if no other—and we all know how many others there are—the Western world must engage in serious introspection and purify its social thinking. I do not believe evil-doers are ignorant of what is right and what is wrong. I believe they do evil not because of poor philosophy, but rather because of greed and arrogance. Deep down in their black hearts the men of the White Councils know that a Negro is entitled to equal dignity and respect. It is their cussedness that hampers their civility, not lack of knowledge. They are dishonest rather than mistaken, as are those among our fellow citizens and politicians who speak in their favor. They want to eliminate the great evil in tiny advances in order not to hurt the sensitivities of the evil-doers. The sensitivities of the victims seem not to concern them.







THE NEW SLAVE SOCIETY
When we read that in the mountains of northeast India tribesmen still hold slaves, we are likely to express astonishment at the civilized administration of India permitting such ancient and cruel bondage; while in fact throughout the Western as well as Eastern world slaves are being kept by the millions for reasons not much different than the dasa-gamas of the Himalayas.
The slaves of the wild hillsmen are committed to servitude by their creditors, by persons whom they have physically assaulted, by the tribal leaders whose authority they have offended, or for infringing upon any of a group of tribal regulations. Quite similar to our own slaves in the world at large, they have to wear clothes marking them distinctly for what they are, although their prison garb is less obvious than ours, and they have to cut their hair in a particular way.
In contrast to some of the slaves in Siberia or our own South, they are never chained nor are they separated from their families as is the case in most civilized lands. Like the slaves of ancient Israel or ancient Greece, and unlike those of ancient Egypt or Rome, they retain a considerable amount of freedom of movement within the household to which they are assigned.
A slave is an individual bound by law or threat to a set environment for life or for a specified period; bereft of freedom of movement, communication, or sex; assigned to solitude or occupation according to the wishes of his captor; deprived of all family authority, ritual, or other privileges.
In this sense, the prisons of the world contain a far greater population of slaves, counted directly or proportionately, than ever before in history.
It is true that the chain-gang slaves of our time are not harbored in galleys but rather move about in mines and quarries, which is hardly an advantage. However, the principle of crime and retribution has hardly changed since the days of Hammurabi.
In ancient days, men and women were enslaved because their lands were overrun by a neighbor. At this writing, in Red China there are thousands of such slaves of Tibetan origin, taken when their provinces were recently occupied; and in Siberia are tens of thousands of Hungarians quite recently abducted. The slave camps in antiquity were also filled when a usurper came to power and considered it necessary for the safety of the new era of autocracy to decapitate some and imprison others. The Russian dictator, Stalin, purged tens of thousands in a bloody decade following his ascendance to the summit; at the same time he established the most elaborate concentration camps in Siberia, the inhabitants of which have been estimated by experts to run somewhere between eight and fifteen millions. On a small scale the Cuban Castro deprived many thousands of their civic freedom, of course after having had his share of drumhead executions. In the days of the Pharaohs, for offending the majesty of the ruler, for failing to pay a fine, for being delinquent in paying a tax, for theft of property, for inability to repay a loan, for losing heart in battle—for those and sundry other reasons, people were deprived of all rights as humans for a time or for life.
In our own days, our slaves have been caught by the very same offenses. How can I begin to count the millions who have fallen into servitude for offending the majesty of Hitler or Mussolini, Stalin or Khrushchev, Mao or Tito, Nasser or Kadar; those who failed to pay their taxes or stole a bag of wheat from the almighty granaries, state-owned or private-owned? And how about the many, many little people with their little emotions driving them relentlessly into deeds of passion which society has failed to teach them to control, and to which society all too frequently has contributed immeasurably by providing that most pernicious of all drugs, the openly-taxed and openly-purveyed liquor. It is said that in ancient days many sold themselves voluntarily into slavery so as to have the price for a feast of drunkenness. How many today sell themselves into prison for the price of a feast of drunkenness? If one surveys the tens of thousands who are being kept in dungeons and slave camps in our era—the poor, lost, and almost forgotten—and then looks about to find the great evil-doers sitting on their high thrones of public esteem, he must conclude that the wrong people are in jail. The wrong people wear the badge and cloth of servitude. And their enslavement never has and never will improve humanity; nor will it act as a preventive, because the incarceration of the innocent will hardly prevent the crimes of the dominant malefactors.
If there must be jails, if there must be slave quarters, put the oppressors there, the Stalins, the Maos, the Hitlers and Castros, those with blood on their hands and greed in their eyes. Place not in a chain gang the Negro who stole a bag of chicken feed, but rather the governor of the state who promised to dissolve all schools so black may not sit with white on one bench.
The great threat to man is not the little people who steal but the men who, infatuated with their own power, drive neighbor against neighbor and nation. against nation. There must be another way of dealing with the weakness of men than making slaves of them. But there is only one way of dealing with the evil-doers who use slogans of social progress and welfare as pretentious camouflage to perpetrate their pernicious acts of self-aggrandizement. There must come a final abolition of all slavery by taming the savage dictators.







THE SICK AND THE SINNING
In merry England of Blackstone's time, persons were executed for stealing property in excess of two pounds. For lesser offenses, they were sent to slave quarters, gaols, of His Majesty the King. Still, the greatest activity by pickpockets was carried on at the place of execution of a thief.
The statutory laws as well as the precedents designed to reduce a man to slavery differ from country to country and state to state, even province to province. However, the Damocles sword of enslavement hangs over every man in every part of this globe.
If one were to interview inmates of slave camps or prisons, he would note that only a few expected to find themselves there. The teacher in Iraq was enslaved because he was sympathetic to his employer, the King, who suddenly met with disaster. Another teacher in the same town was enslaved because he was sympathetic to a Marxist group opposing the very same King; a citizen in Teheran was enslaved not too many years ago because he disturbed a religious meeting of the Bahai. Another man in the same city was confined for life quite recently because he attended a clandestine Bahai service. A white student in New Orleans was enslaved for ten years because he sat in with Negroes at a public counter reserved for Aryans only. It appears that the law is not subject to justice, but rather to the whim or design of its respective interpreter. The most barbaric slogan of the most primitive tribal era still prevails; if a man disobeys the headman or his shaman, cut off his head or make him a slave. If a man offends the headman or his shaman, if he touches their property or is disagreeable, throw him into the slave quarters. Such was the law and is the law; and not only in Russia, China and Cuba.
It is easy to recognize the barbarism of ancient days. It is difficult to see it in one's own time. We are so accustomed to regard the law as a Holy Mother that we distrust our eyes when we see her as a harlot. The really guilty are sitting on the judge's bench while the jails are bursting with the small, the innocent and the weak.
The homosexual, incurably ill, is thrown into one cell with the rake. The result of such enslavement is obvious. After a while, the rake becomes a homosexual and the homosexual a rake.
Our prisons turn out perverts and deviates en masse. Our drug addicts and alcoholics are treated as criminals while they are only victims of habitual poisoning tolerated by some countries and even taxed by others. We could stop this wholesale narcosis and inebriation were we to stem the flow of the poison. Instead we tax gambling, we tax alcohol, and the countries of production tax narcotics, and then we throw into slave camps the victims of corruption who are driven to burglary and murder to get the price of expensive sinning. We permit purveyors of treacherous ideologies that infest the minds of our people, and then we enslave the corrupted. It seems our only answer to those who suffer from the inequities of life, the inequities of society and the weaknesses of the flesh is enslavement.
Those who are brutal belong in asylums for the manic. Those who are sick belong in hospitals. Those who fall under economic stress need guidance accompanied by slow restitution. Those who are rebellious need understanding. I realize this is but a cry in the wilderness because for every man serving in penitentiaries of the West, there are a hundred under the yoke of the Marxist tyrant and for them the twilight of enslavement is dim and distant.







SAGES AND SYCOPHANTS
People do not disagree intellectually, but emotionally, and the further removed the thinking is from possible emotional attitudes, the less chance there is for disagreement. In fact, in the realm of abstract science or the technology of daily living, there is no disagreement at all. A medical discovery, a technological step forward, a scientific experiment—they all may be disputed, not on the basis of intellectual disagreements, but because of an occasional lack of coordination. If proper coordination has been established, alleged differences vanish and two minus one remains one for everybody every place.
Occasionally a body of science has been adapted by prejudicial groups for political or propagandistic purposes. The Lysenko case, Darwinian eristics, and Aristotelian overbearance are examples of deliberate misorientation of the people by calculating groups or organizations. But by and large there are no two standards in science and the technology of daily living.
Away from these fields of obligatory logic, we encounter the great precursor of disagreement: human motivation. Because of it wise men speak like fools and shrewd men utter superstitions. In politics, in religion, in historiography, in anthropology, in jurisprudence, Babel lives again. Every nation speaks a different language. Indeed every person does. This is the great era of motivated thinking and we can almost predict what a man will say once we know to which group he belongs or where his motives lie.
In politics, we know that the political thinkers of the Kremlin will say no to every thought of the Western world. We can also predict that the Menon type of neutralist will shake his head with the Kremlin, his negation softened, however, by an explanation. There is the classic prototype of the so-called neutralist thinker. He cannot see a crime committed by the Soviets. Even an aggression against his own people he will resist with a powder puff. For the massacres perpetrated by Stalin or Mao, Castro or Nasser, his protest is silence or garlands. But when America raises its shield for protection against insult and barbarism, then the little Guru becomes a veritable tongue of fire, lashing at the capitalist aggressors.
Now Mr. Menon is a reasonable man and his reasoning powers are as good as those of the other neutralists in politics, but like the other neutralists, he is neutral against the West while shamefacedly serving the dictators of the East. There is something lacking in the thinking of these people but it is not in their calculation; it is in their motivation. They all know the truth, but the road of truth is often hard and unrewarding. So they follow the lush pavements where opportunity directs.
They prostitute political science as they teach false race theories, vindictive jurisprudence, misleading theology or cockeyed history because it suits their taskmasters to have the people of the world look upon themselves and their neighbors, upon the past as well as the future, through the trick glasses of a kind of reasoning which has been artfully prepared for them. It is a melancholy thing to observe how individuals guided by heinous and callous self-interest have managed to gain reputations of sagacity and integrity.







SCIENCE AND THE GOOD THOUGHT
To begin with, it is impossible to improve a person's thinking, as impossible as it is to improve a man's heartbeat or the functions of his intestines. However, as in the case of the physical functions, one can avoid the consumption of indigestible or bad food.
Like the body, of course, the mind differs from person to person in intensity, in capacity, in range, depth and tendency of disintegration. But fundamentally, all minds work alike, just as all livers work alike, all kidneys work alike, all hearts work alike, all stomachs work alike.
To retain a healthy mind, one need do no more than avoid the absorption of negativistic motivation.
For thousands of years the minds of men have been defiled by evil motivation introduced from the outside; men have learned to judge issues, people and events, not by reason, but by the opportune patterns set by their oppressors.
If we say the Russians or the Chinese think like one man, we actually mean to say that one man does the thinking for them and they are clever enough to adopt this man's thinking. After a while, of course, especially if such thinking is ingrained in them from early years, they will believe themselves to be the thinkers while indeed they are only sad epigones.
Regardless of the opinion one may hold about the possibilities of intellectual improvement, one must admit that in the last few hundred years of intellectual improvement, life on this globe has become less attractive and more threatening than ever in history. The wealth of our scientific and technological knowledge has been enlarged tremendously but man's capacity to share this wealth and use it advantageously is pitifully poor. Half our wealth in science and technology is earmarked for mutual destruction and of the other half, only little is assigned for medical and other welfare. The rest is dedicated to accelerated speed and improved comfort.
There are almost visible fence posts to the human mind; some are even marked by symbols such as the infinite.
If one contemplates space travel and visualizes a vehicle of our own island-hopping in the distant atmosphere, where will travel end? What comes after the last island? Geographically and hypothetically, if we contemplate evolution and reduce all organic matter to inorganic matter and all inorganic matter to the most minute group of entities, how come these entities? Who produced the speck wnence everything originated?
There are no answers to many questions. We are at the boundary of the human mind. A similar awareness, perhaps, motivated the great Prophets to speak of God as Eternity without face and form.
Betterment of thinking and a widening of it may further fill the storehouse of accumulated knowledge but as long as the thinking of the people remains subject to motivations inspired by evil men and ugly groups, the world will walk—like the man with one boot nailed to the floor—in circles.
Our thinking capacity will not be proven by greater knowledge of the atom or travel among the planets. It can only be proven right here in our streets, our factories, our schools and our farms, by the ability to free our minds from the animus imposed by dictatorial schemers and their shamans and henchmen.
Let's not ignore the fact that under Hitler rocketry and astronautics reached new heights, as they perhaps are doing under Khrushchev. The scientist, the technologist—it seems a sardonic coincidence that only the democratic countries like England and America had difficulties with the loyalties of their scientists and technologists. In the service of the tyrants of the East from Germany to China, these learned men seem to have felt no compunctions about their sordid handiwork.
Science so used improves nothing except the ability to kill more and kill quicker. The scientist, therefore, is not a better man, only a more dangerous one. Perhaps here lies the reason why in Russia or China, the military men and the scientists are both paid according to the same high wage scale.
The philosopher Spinoza in the seventeenth century tried to prove the advantage of leading a good life. He demonstrated by the geometric method of proof how much happier is a serene and loving person than one torn by hate and uncontrolled desires.
Regardless of his ethical logic, if we are to make progress and really go forward in our thinking towards man we must teach our children and our neighbors and learn, of course, for ourselves, the art of thinking outside the traditional patterns, outside the circus of propaganda around us. We must go straight toward the truth of man's goodness towards man's fellowman, and touch the truth, and hold it up for all to see. No research in microscience will lead us there. The truth is as simple as the daylight for all to see. In fact, I have a suspicion all do see it. But what we have to find is deep down in our heart: to see both right and wrong but to choose the right even if such choice is against our own advantage at the moment, be such moment the rest of our lives.







ON GRADING AND DEGRADING STUDENTS
The mind of the world runs on only a few of its cylinders. The overwhelming majority of the people never have had the opportunity of exercising their minds in any but the most primitive daily tasks. Literacy does not end with the ability to read and write; literacy begins there.
In this sense, the world at large, especially in Asia and Africa, is almost completely illiterate. On the other hand, those masses are easy prey for the spoken word which they have never learned to analyze. The masters in the East have taken full advantage of this situation and have considerable success in reaching the ears of the uneducated.
Education in itself is not an answer to the pressing problem of mutual understanding. We have seen the most educated nations like the Romans, the Germans, or the Russians, in the forefront of seething hate instead of understanding; and we have seen men of science and learning support the Caesars of their time.
The one subject which deals exclusively with the topic of mutual understanding is ethics. Except in some abstruse philosophy classes, it is absent from our curriculum.
We seem to find it necessary in our schools to teach a variety of languages—not enough to know, just enough to forget; we teach the lives of the kings and generals, the diplomats and the court clerks and camarillas, which should be reserved for those who take an interest in political criminology; we teach the youngsters a hundred names of leaves and other particles of plants they will never see, while they can't distinguish an apple tree from a cherry tree and don't know if lemons grow on a bush or a branch; we teach them the names of a thousand bones of frogs and fishes and sundry other creatures, adding only to the great body of useless information acquired in school and promptly left there at graduation.
The most important subject, however, how to get along with fellowman, is left to chance and worse.
In school, the student is taught to strive, not for understanding, but rather for the prize, the medal, the top grade. Students are graded like cattle as upper, medium and lower grade, and of course they have to live with such grading. Imagine a dentist walking about town with a sign on his back: I am a low grade dentist; or a lawyer with a tag on his lapel: I am the best attorney in this part of town; or a housewife with a ribbon in her hair reading: I am a terrible cook, I am sloppy, too. These are the kind of stigmas our children have to live with twelve or more years of their lives.
The interesting and often overlooked phenomenon is that the top graders frequently turn sour while some of our foremost minds have been classified as mediocre students. Thomas Edison, the greatest electrical inventor of all times, was discouraged from continuing school at the age of twelve. And Albert Einstein was deemed qualified for nothing better than clerk in a patent office. I could give innumerable examples of great minds looking small in the eyes of their teachers. And who can count those so minimized who in discouragement gave up early and let their minds go to seed because the school didn't know how to work with them?
Some youngsters think fast, others think slowly. The speed of thinking is deeply embedded in physiology which gives the physiologically quicker a considerable advantage under the prevailing system of tests and examinations.
Some minds develop late, others more rapidly. That, too, is physiologically founded and once again the physiologically precocious have the advantage over their colleagues.
Minds differ qualitatively. Some run in short waves of detail, others in long waves of comprehension. Here, the more imaginative will lose out in school to the short-range mind.
Some minds are given to verbalizing, others prefer silence. Here expression will play its advantage. Some minds are geared to long attention spans, others are not. Some minds are strongly dependent upon environment and emotional recognition, others are indifferent. There are myriad dispositions of the human mind to be considered if a school is to educate or lead.
The grading of students is a primitivism by which pupils are sized up for use and purpose in the households of the master. Grading of students' talents is an offense to the dignity of men since the young are entitled to live among their peers unblemished by degradation and unflattered by vulgar praise.
Intelligence tests and other mass "measurements" as practiced today are crude efforts to fit the soul of the young into a series of preconceived utilitarian patterns.
Classifying students by grades and tests and IQ's differs little from classifying them by the prettiness of their faces or the shape of their legs. Favoring the quick and the smart-appearing over their colleagues is like favoring the handsome over the unattractive or the slim over the plump.
Students are people and should be left to lead their lives without constantly being compared with others and forever being rated against the accomplishments of others, and without being relentlessly pushed to outdo their peers and reach for the top.
And, pray tell me, what is on the top? A brilliant physicist working in a Russian laboratory on nuclear weapons? An astrophysicist in Hitler's rocket center calculating how to bombard London? A Chinese bacteriologist figuring out how to spread a plague over America through a series of little bombs? A sociologist in a New Orleans university preparing a learned resolution as to why Negroes are not entitled to sit on a bench next to a member of that sallow race that chooses to call itself white? That legal pundit in Little Rock who contrives ways and means of using the law to block justice?
What is on top that is worth destroying the life and dignity of young people to get there?
Should not man's humanity to man be on top?
If people are to lead lives of cooperation and generous co-existence, they cannot be schooled by relentless competition and selfish drive for personal success. Let the young study free so they may value freedom in adulthood. Without that sense of freedom, all knowledge will come to naught or come to destroy us.







BOOK KNOWLEDGE AND KNAVERY
In Hebrew, by legendary etymology, the word "book" (sepher) has as its root the term soph which means the end, the last word, ultima ratio. The book offers the final verities in life and thought. Indeed, in ancient years, the Hebrews knew only one book. All writing that was worth retaining was added to the book; everything else was discarded. This aggregate of literature they called The Book, biblion, the Bible.
From those days on during the last 2500 years, many thousand pieces of writing were added to the 39 little books that made up the big book of Jerusalem.
Some of these new books have attempted to deal with the final problems. The overwhelming majority, however, with everything but.
There have been books written to enlighten and there have been books written to blacken, such as Mein Kampf; there have been books written to teach and others to stultify; there have been books written to record history and others to replace it with fabricated chronicles such as the Stalin Encyclopedia—now, of course, rearranged to suit a different dictator. There is Pilgrim's Progress and the Protocols of Zion; there are the Dialogues of Socrates and the Witches' Law Book. There have been books written to offer a law for the people in behalf of the people, and others, legalistic tomes, to perpetuate the grievous dichotomy between the arrogant bluebloods and the toiling masses; there have been books written of astounding discoveries of new lands and continents, and also manuals for ruthless imperialists who turned romanticism and propagation of faith into slave trade and plantation tyranny; there are lofty volumes on freedom of Man and handy little textbooks on how to deal with runaway slaves and obstreperous bonded persons; there are books on cooking and carving, on dinner tables and fireworks; on tools and trowels; and there are others with strong commands on how to aim a bayonet at the enemy's throat and how to blow a town to smithereens; there are books of songs, of poems ringing with beauty and devotions and there is the Horst Wessel song and the foul diatribes of Richard Wagner; there are books of healing and herbs and there is the German medical guide of our generation, detailing the science of how to sterilize the Gypsy, suffocate a Jewish woman, vivisect a Pole; there are books on the art of persuasion, how to get along with fellow man, and there is the red-covered booklet in Chinese, Russian or Korean on how to crush four regions into one commune, tearing the inhabitants from their offspring, sending the aged into happy homes of silent drudgery, while the strong are led into field or factory to be worked like cattle, men and women in separate barracks, taken once every three weeks into separate mating pens at a given time for a given time—there is no end of making books. I wonder how many of those foisted upon the people of the Eastern world and how many of those offered to the people of the Western world could be justified by the ancient Hebrew definition that a book should be the last word and should deal only with things eternal?
For many, for too many, the black print indicates correctness or at least reality, while, excluding technical data, most of it is neither true nor beneficial nor even real. The mind of man floats in a cloud of half truths and purposeful misinformation; it takes strength and concentration to penetrate the mist.







All rights reserved, including without limitation the right to reproduce this ebook or any portion thereof in any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereinafter invented, without the express written permission of the publisher.
Copyright © 1961 by Philosophical Library, Inc.
ISBN: 978-1-5040-1292-8
Philosophical Library
119 W. 40th Street
New York, NY 10018
www.philosophicallibrary.com

Distributed by Open Road Distribution
345 Hudson Street
New York, NY 10014
www.openroadmedia.com




