




UNREAL AUTOS
PRESENTS
THE BEST CAR BOOK 
IN THE WORLD
200 pages of unbelievable cars
1

Unreal Autos, United Kingdom
www.unrealautos.com 
Author's & Typographical copyright © 2014 Unreal Autos Unreal Autos asserts copyright over this work worldwide including the UK, US and EU. 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, without the prior permission in writing of Unreal Autos, or as expressly permitted by law, or under terms agreed with the appropriate reprographics rights organization. 
First Unreal Autos edition published 2014
Printed in the United States of America and the United Kingdom 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library ISBN XXX-X-XXX-XXXXX-X (Hardback) 
ISBN 978-4-949-57698 (Paperback)
ISBN XXX-X-XXX-XXXXX-X (PDF) 
ISBN XXX-X-XXX-XXXXX-X (EPUB) ISBN XXX-X-XXX-XXXXX-X (Kindle) Unreal Autos and the Unreal Autos logos are trademarks owned by Peter Hedditch. 
www.unrealautos.com

3

CONTENTS
1. 
Top 10 World's Most Outrageous Supercar Designs
12
2. 
Top 10 Most Expensive Cars of 2013
39
3. 
Top 5 Most Valuable Cars in the World
65
4. 
10 Important Milestones in Automotive History
78
5. 
The World's Coolest Concept Cars
86
6. 
Top 5 Futuristic Cars from Sci-fi Films
112
7. 
When Will We Have a Flying Car? 
129
8. 
Top 10 Tips from Professional Racers
144
9. 
Top 5 In-car Gadgets
169
10. 
Top 10 Most Beautiful Cars Ever Made
182
www.unrealautos.com

5

www.unrealautos.com

7

www.unrealautos.com

9

IN THE WORLD'S MOST 
INCREDIBLE CARS
www.unrealautos.com

IN THE WORLD'S MOST 
INCREDIBLE CARS
Unreal Autos opens a door into 
the world of the rich, the glamorous, the 
sublime and the ridiculous, and takes you on a 
rubber-burning journey through the milestones of 
automotive greatness. 

Prepare to be amazed as you get close up with 
the supercar, the pioneer, the concept car and the ultra-
expensive. 

Driving is changing, technology is striding for-
ward, and challenges lie on the horizon, but we haven't 
lost our love for the motorcar, or for the sheer thrill and adventure of the experience. 

So fasten your seatbelts and feast your eyes on 
this full-colour guide to the world's top motors, past, 
present and future - and don't forget to check 
your wing mirrors. It's time for some very 
beautiful and very unreal autos. 
11









CHAPTER 1
TOP 10 MOST 
OUTRAGEOUS SUPERCAR 
DESIGNS
Supercars might be outrageous because of their 
shape, materials, power, or all of the above. One 
manufacturer seems to be making a habit of 
churning out artistic shock statements - but we'll 
let you work that out for yourself! 
Anyone can draw something outrageous but it's 
another thing to make it a reality. So to make it 
onto our Top 10 all-time outrageous supercar de-
signs, there has to have been at least one complete 
prototype actually built. 
www.unrealautos.com

THE 2013 PEUGEOT ONYX
13

10. 
SSC TUATARA
(2011 PROTOTYPE)
Shelby Super Cars (SSC) have come up with 
some record-breaking motors, and are 
flying the flag for the American supercar 
industry. It's not often we show you a car's 
back-end but in this case we make an 
exception. Serious tail features! 
www.unrealautos.com

15

9. 
LAMBORGHINI SESTO 
ELEMENTO
The sixth element in the periodic table is carbon 
and the obsessive extent to which Lambo have 
used the grey stuff in this car earns it a place in our 
Top 10. Then, of course, there are those eyebrow-
raising red bonnet triangles. 
www.unrealautos.com

17

8. 
MERCEDES-BENZ SLR 
MCLAREN STIRLING MOSS
While the SLR McLaren was really just a grand tourer, 
the Stirling Moss edition is a supercar racing variant 
with no roof or windscreen - which is fairly outra-
geous.  It also boasted a higher top speed at 220mph. 
www.unrealautos.com

19

7. 
PEUGEOT 
ONYX (2013)
What is more shocking? A car with copper plat-
ing designed to turn green over time, a recycled 
newspaper dashboard, or the fact that both of these 
are found in a Peugeot of all things? Oh, and the tail 
lights up blue when you close the doors. 
www.unrealautos.com

21

BUGATTI VEYRON EB 16.4 
6. SUPER SPORTS (2010)
Outrageously powerful, the clue is in the name, 16.4 meaning 16 cylinders and quad-turbocharged. When the original 8-litre Veyron lost its speed crown to the SSC Ultimate Aero, Bugatti came up with a new 1,184bhp version to take it back. 
www.unrealautos.com

23

www.unrealautos.com

5. 
DEVEL SIXTEEN 
(2013)
This mould-breaking new 
hypercar debuted at the 2013 Dubai 
International Motor Show just in time to make 
it into this book. Words fail us to sum up both its striking body and its unparalleled 5000 hp performance. Generating around four times the power of the Bugatti Veyron SuperSports, expect to hear much more about this bombshell during 2014. If you're thinking this is a publicity stunt joke, or a clay model, think again. Video footage of it in action is already freely available at a search engine near you. 
25

www.unrealautos.com


LAMBORGHINI 
4. COUNTACH (1974)
So low you have to be a limbo dancer 
to get in; so restrictive on the window 
movement, you can't get a half-pound 
burger through the gap at a drive-in, the 
Countach is the stuff of design legend. 
DOWNLOAD THESE PHOTOS AS 
DESKTOP WALLPAPERS OR POSTERS
Go to www.unrealautos.com/wallpapers
27

3. 
LANCIA STRATOS ZERO 
(1970)
Uncompromising wedge-shaped looks mean that 
the Zero actually had very little in common with the 
rallying Stratos HF. Just look at that thin line of lights in the front bumper. It's like a razor's edge! 
www.unrealautos.com

29

www.unrealautos.com

LAMBORGHINI 
2. PREGUNTA (1998)
Only one V12 roadster was built and any car 
that requires you to stop and think which end 
is the front must be fairly outrageous. By the 
way, Pregunta is Spanish for question. 
31

www.unrealautos.com

LAMBORGHINI EGOISTA (2013)
1. In first place comes any car with three noses, and, at time of going to print, that means only one car, the Egoista. Made for just one occupant, the English translation of its name is appropriately 'selfish'. 
33

Did you know? 
Car manufacturer Henry Ford only offered his customers cars in one colour, black, because it was the cheapest to use, quickest to dry, and the most durable. Also, by only offering one colour, the production line was uniform and the vehicle price kept as low as possible. 
www.unrealautos.com

35

www.unrealautos.com

There's nothing so unforgiving
As the crannies of a car
For losing some keys
Or a chocolate bar
Over hill and down dale
Over seat and down foot-well
Your efforts will fail
And the car remains keeper
Why did I have to put it in my trouser pocket? 
Is something burning in the lighter socket? 
37

www.unrealautos.com









CHAPTER 2
TOP 10 MOST EXPENSIVE 
CARS OF 2014
In the next chapter you'll read about the crazy prices that people are prepared to pay for individual machines with extraordinary histories. Four out of five of them are worth over £20m each. Here, however, we've found you the very priciest brand new motors of 2014. Prepare to put your nose up against the metaphorical window of the prestige marque showrooms and drool. 

We've not counted different editions of the same make and model, e.g. only one kind of Bugatti Veyron - but they're all still at least a million dollars! 
39

www.unrealautos.com

10. 
HENNESSEY VENOM GT £623K ($1M)
Nothing has done more to threaten the Veyron's dominance in the speed stakes than the Venom GT. The car that Aerosmith lead singer Steven Tyler wanted top-less has some British blood in it so surely it's something we can all be proud of? 
Engine 7.0l twin-turbocharged V8
Power up to 1,244 bhp
Top speed 265 mph (tested)
Acceleration 0-62 mph in 2.7 sec
41

www.unrealautos.com

MCLAREN P1 £866K ($1.39M)
9. Calling the new McLaren the P1 is as shameless an attempt to associate it with the F1 as calling the new Jag the F-Type because of the E-Type. Will it live up to the hype though? Like LaFerrari (at number 8) it is a hybrid, and like the F1, it is a mid-engined rear wheel drive beast, so perhaps we should 
expect great things. 
Engine 3.8l twin-turbocharged V8
Power 903 bhp
Top speed 217 mph
Acceleration 0-62 mph in 2.9 sec
43

8. 
FERRARI F70 LAFERRARI £900K ($1.45M)
It's easy to say you could do a better job than the wag in Ferrari's marketing department who decided to name their new top model 'the Ferrari' in Italian. But could you have come up with the awesome design? Pricing estimates are conflicting so we've given you the average of £800k and £1m. 
Engine 6.3l V12 hybrid
Power 950 bhp
Top speed 218 mph
Acceleration 0-62 mph in 2.9 sec
www.unrealautos.com

45

7. 
PAGANI HUAYRA £1.03M ($1.65M)
The Huayra might be junior to the Zonda Revolucion in the price tag stakes (despite a big hike this year) but it's no slouch when the rubber hits the road. TG fans won't need reminding that this car still holds the top spot in the Stig's Power Lap table with a time of 1 minute 13.8 seconds. 
Engine 6.0l bi-turbocharged V12
Power 720 bhp
Top speed 230 mph
Acceleration 0-60 mph in 3.3 sec
www.unrealautos.com


DOWNLOAD THESE PHOTOS AS 
DESKTOP WALLPAPERS OR POSTERS
Go to www.unrealautos.com/wallpapers
47

6. 
ZENVO ST-1 £1.12M 
($1.8M)
Contrary to some opinion, the ST-1 did 
not cease production in 2009. In fact 
it only entered production that year, 
and with a three per year schedule 
and 15 total planned, it should still be 
rolling off the factory into 2014. 
Engine 7.0l turbo-supercharged V8
Power 1104 hp (non-US configuration)
Top speed 233 mph
Acceleration 0-62 mph in 3.0 sec
www.unrealautos.com

49

www.unrealautos.com

5. 
BUGATTI VEYRON 16.4 GRAND 
SPORT VITESSE JEAN-PIERRE 
WIMILLE EDITION £2.1M 
($3.37M)
You may have been expecting the SS or 
Super Sport but we give you the Jean-
Pierre Wimille Edition, notable for its 
especially high price tag, even for 
a Bugatti. Of course, if VW weren't 
strategically selling the Veyron at a 
loss, the true price tag would make 
this our no.1 expensive car - at 
around $8.8m each. 
Engine 8.0l W16
Power 1200 hp
Top speed 254 mph - with the top down! 
Acceleration 0-62 mph in 2.6 sec
51

www.unrealautos.com

4. 
W MOTORS' LYKAN HYPERSPORT £2.12M 
($3.4M)
If there's a joker in the pack then this is it. Firstly, what kind of a car comes out of Lebanon? Secondly, real gemstones in the headlights that the buyer can customise? Yes, it uses titanium LED blades with 420 diamonds. O---kay. 
Engine 3.7l flat-6
Power 750 hp
Top speed 240 mph
Acceleration 0-62 mph in 2.8 sec
53

3. 
PAGANI ZONDA REVOLUCION 
£2.3M ($3.7M)
One of the great achievements of Pagani has been how its Zonda dates back over a decade but still holds its own against much newer competition. The Spanish word Revolucion is a cheeky development of Pagani's R 
Evolution, and is the final incarnation of the Zonda - allegedly. 
Engine 6.0l V12
Power 800 hp
Top speed 218 mph
Acceleration 0-62 mph in 2.6 sec
www.unrealautos.com

55

2. 
LAMBORGHINI VENENO 
£2.54M ($4.1M)
No surprise to see the Veneno high in our Top 10. 
Lambo's dearest street-legal production car has 
apparently just achieved its first real customer 
delivery. If you imagine an Aventador putting on 
the mask in Jim Carrey's eponymous film, you get 
Lamborghini's 50th anniversary present to just 3 
potential owners. 
Engine 6.5l V12
Power 740 hp
Top speed 221 mph
Acceleration 0-60 
mph in 2.8 sec
www.unrealautos.com

57

1. 
KOENIGSEGG AGERA S 
£2.6M ($4.2M)
Yes, that's right, an Agera tops our list, 
which is perhaps the biggest surprise of all. 
The key to it is that 'S' as the Agera R is a 
whole $2.5m cheaper. Koenigsegg's new 
flagship hypercar sold for the eye-watering 
sum above at a private launch event in 
Singapore. 
Engine: 
5.0l twin-turbo-supercharged V8
Power: 
1040 hp
Top speed: 
249 mph
Acceleration:
0-62 mph in 2.9 sec
www.unrealautos.com

59

www.unrealautos.com

Did you Know? 
There are eight official State 
limousines operated for the British 
Royal Family, comprised of three 
Rolls-Royces, two Bentleys and three 
Daimlers. State cars are painted in 
royal claret livery and need no licence 
plates in the UK. 
61

www.unrealautos.com

As covers of shimmering silk
Are blown from the roof
Oceans of scarlet steel
Are revealed from beneath
A raging bull
A spoiler, a flash of chrome exhaust
And then a spark
From key to spark to cylinder
A lion - nay two
Must be trapped inside
Unable to get out
Or vent any feeling
But through the rubber to the road
As lightning is to thunder
Is this legend to the wind
63









CHAPTER 3
THE TOP 5 MOST VALUABLE 
CARS IN THE WORLD
Here's Unreal Auto's rundown of the top 5 most valuable individual machines in the world. We're including anything, no matter how old, but do check out our separate Top 10 Most Expensive Cars article for the list of current brand new motors on sale. 
Here though we've taken into account actual auc-
tion sale prices but also cars which have an 
estimated worth in 2014 money, even if 
they haven't changed hands for a 
very long time. The final fig-
ures and relative positions 
are subject to fierce 
debate. 
www.unrealautos.com

5. 
1936 BUGATTI TYPE 57SC ATLANTIC
Due to the secretive nature of the transaction, the best estimate for the final price, was US$30-40m. That's a lot of Dacia Sanderos, Mr May. 
The jury's still out on whether this ahead-of-its-time pre-war speed machine is beautiful, or resembles a labrador's head. Either way though, only two or three have survived, and one was even controver-sially reconstructed from the remains of a collision that claimed the lives of its occupants. 
65

www.unrealautos.com

4. 
STIRLING MOSS' 1962 FERRARI 250 GTO
Beginning a Moss theme in this chapter, we have the first of our cars to be backed up with an actual sale price. Just last year, another 250 GTO fetched £22m (US$35m) at auction. 

Although built for Moss, injury prevented him from driving it in anger. The racer who would take it to Tourist Trophy victory at Goodwood 
was Innes Ireland. 
67

www.unrealautos.com

3. 
STIRLING MOSS' 1955 
'722' MERCEDES-BENZ 
300 SLR
This is a great car made greater by its 
association with racing legend Stirling 
Moss. In 1955 the '722' helped Moss to World 
Sportscar Championship glory, and broke the 
Italian monopoly on Mille Miglia winners. 
Estimated values for this machine vary, with 
Moss' own website perhaps optimistically 
suggesting £40m. More independent sources 
have put it at £29m (US$47m). 
69

2. 
JEAN GUICHET'S 1963 
FERRARI 250 GTO
Hot off the presses in October 2013 comes 
news that the car Jean Guichet won the 
1963 Tour de France Automobile with, 
has changed hands for the verified 
sum of $52m (£32.4m). 
The fact that not one but two of 
the world's Top 5 most valuable 
cars are both Ferraris and both 
250s is some testament to the 
collector value of these sought-
after racing legends. 
www.unrealautos.com

71

www.unrealautos.com

1907 ROLLS ROYCE SILVER 
1. GHOST AX201
Coming in at no. 1 we have the ultimate car, if not in original cost, then certainly in current value, were it to be put up for sale. Known to enthusiasts by its UK registration number AX201, it was built as a marketing tool for Rolls Royce in 1907. 

VW hinted years ago that it was insured for a sum, which in 2013 money, would be at least $53m (£33m) - that's right, fifty-three million dollars. If you've just made a killing in hedge funds and are looking for a good investment, you'll have to hold your fire though. 

The only Silver Ghost to be made with actual silver plating is not likely to come onto the market any time soon. Currently owned by Bentley, it has driven over 500,000 miles around the world and continues to be kept roadworthy. This specific individual car, Chassis no. 60551, did more than anything else to earn RR the independently given sobriquet, 'the best car in the world'. 
73



WOW! 
The biggest-selling single-design car model of all time is the original Type 1 Volkswagen Beetle, which sold 21.5 
million units 1938-2003. The Toyota Corolla sold more, 
but across several different design generations. 
www.unrealautos.com


75

www.unrealautos.com

How pink is the sky
How long the way ahead
No houses, no cars, no roadside bars
In that moment
The car my sole companion
The heartbeat of its engine
The only sound
Sharing the moment with me
From tunnel to hairpin bend. 
77









CHAPTER 4
10 IMPORTANT MILESTONES IN CAR HISTORY
After Karl Benz built the first Motorwagen in 1885, what next? What were the ten most important safety, performance and car comfort breakthroughs? 

Or, to put it another way, what were the first cars to be fitted with various features or to pass important milestones? 
WORLD'S FIRST MOTORCAR: THE BENZ 
PATENT-MOTORWAGEN
SAFETY
1ST CAR WITH ELECTRIC HEADLAMPS (1898)
The Columbia Electric Car of Hartford, Connecticut, was the first motor vehicle to have electric headlights, following the rather unreliable and inconvenient oil and acetylene lamps of earlier automobiles. Think fire hazard. 
www.unrealautos.com


1ST CAR WITH SEAT 
BELTS (1948)
The Tucker 'Torpedo' '48 of 
Chicago, Illinois, was the first 
car to get seat belts plus a 
number of other safety features 
that were very far ahead of its 
time. It even had a third middle 
headlight that turned in the 
direction of the steering wheel! 
1ST CAR WITH CRUMPLE ZONES (1959)
Although patented in 1952, it would be another 7 years before Mercedes-Benz put crumple zone technology into a production car for real. The W111 Heckflosse or Fintail had front and rear zones to absorb crash energy. 
1ST CAR WITH AIRBAGS (1971-73)
The rise (excuse the pun) of airbags started with Ford's experimental fleet of airbag-enabled cars in 1971. Government-use Chevrolets followed in 1973. The first publicly available passenger car was the 1973 Oldsmobile Toronado. 
PERFORMANCE
1ST CAR TO HAVE 
4-WHEEL DRIVE (1903)
The 1900 Porsche/Lohner La Toujo-
urs Contente had four independent 
electric hub motors, but the 1903 
Dutch Spyker 60 h.p. was the first 
car to have full-time, mechanical 
4WD in the engine and shaft-driv-
en way we are familiar with today. 
79



1ST CAR TO 100MPH (1904)
For Ostende Automobile Week, Louis Rigolly drove his 15-litre (yes fifteen!) Gobron-Brillié at an average speed of 103.56 mph over a kilometre. Such speeds were unheard of until this point. 
1ST CAR TO 200MPH (1927)
The first road-legal, unmodified, non-racing, production car to break this barrier was the Ferrari F40 in 1987. The Dodge Charger Daytona and Ford GT-40 came earlier and managed 200, but only in their one-off, modified, racing forms. The 1978 Mercedes-Benz C111 prototype never made it into mass production. 

However, the first car of any kind to 200 mph was the Sunbeam 1000 hp Mystery, driven by Henry Segrave to 203 mph on 29 March 1927. 
www.unrealautos.com


COMFORT
1ST CAR WITH PNEUMATIC TYRES (1895)
Peugeot started fitting solid rubber tyres to cars in 1892 with their Type 4, but inflated Michelin rubber tyres came on their 1895 L'Eclair model. However, they didn't manage to finish the Paris-Bordeaux-Paris race with it. 
1ST CAR WITH A ROOF (1899)
The world's first saloon came in 1899 with the Renault Voiturette B. As top-heavy as a top hat, and surprisingly similar looking, we can only assume those 19th century mo-torists weren't trying to send the back end out around corners. 
1ST CAR WITH FULLY AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSION (1940)
After semi-automatic beginnings in 1937-38 with Oldsmobile and Buick models, the first car to do away with the clutch pedal altogether was the Hydramatic Oldsmobile 1940 model. 
THE 1987 FERRARI F40 WAS THE FIRST 
ROAD LEGAL PRODUCTION CAR TO 
BREAK THE 200MPH BARRIER
81

www.unrealautos.com

Double de-clutching 
Some readers may remember that early cars - and some large com-mercial vehicles today - had to change gear by engaging the clutch pedal and moving the stick into Neutral, releasing the pedal, and then re-engaging the pedal to go from neutral to the next gear with the stick. What a hassle! 
83

Had I the heavens' embroidered cloths, 
Enwrought with golden and silver light, 
The blue and the dim and the dark cloths
Of night and light and the half-light, 
I would spread the cloths under your feet:
But I, being poor, have only my dreams; 
I have spread my dreams under your feet; 
Tread softly because you tread on my dreams. 
William Butler Yeats
www.unrealautos.com

Into the desert 
of the future.... 
85









CHAPTER 5
THE WORLD'S COOLEST 
CONCEPT CARS
This isn't the good, the bad and the ugly. This is your reliable run-down of the cool, the cooler, and the down-
right deep-frozen. 
Poster cars to make your mouth water are coming in 
all kinds of flavours. Check out these delectable cool 
concepts from across the board and prepare to be 
stunned. 
www.unrealautos.com

87

www.unrealautos.com

10. 
BMW VISION 
EFFICIENTDYNAMICS (2009)
Any 
car that 
has a blue-illuminated 
radiator grille has to get votes in the 
cool stakes. Apart from being highly economical 
thanks to its ActiveHybrid technology, the Vision concept has high wing mirrors for that edgy touch. 
89

www.unrealautos.com

9. 
LARAKI 
EPITOME 
(2013)
As we come to this futuristic 
and manly motor, the 
temperature has, pretty much, 
become sub-zero. You may not 
know the Laraki name, and guess 
what, it's Moroccan, but don't be fooled. 
It's got Mercedes-Benz, Lamborghini and 
up to 1,750 hp inside it. 
91

www.unrealautos.com

8. 
FERRARI XEZRI (2011)
Runner-up in the Ferrari World Design 
Contest 2011, the Xezri is just as cool as 
the Eternita that won the competition. 
Such smooth lines! Let's hope Ferrari give 
designer Samir Sadikhov a job for drawing 
this extreme performance hypercar. 
93

www.unrealautos.com

7. 
MERCEDES-BENZ SILVER 
ARROW (2011)
Nothing about this otherworldly design is boring or predict-able. Running on omni-directional roller tracks instead of conventional wheels, don't expect this in your local dealer-ship any time soon. Cool ... cool ... cool! 
95

6. 
MERCEDES-BENZ BIOME (2010)
Made from a lab-grown material called BioFibre, this vehicle is intended to emit no gas other than oxygen and should grow to the customer's requirements. We kid you not - although it's just possible that Mercedes are describing the dream rather than their ability. 
www.unrealautos.com

97

www.unrealautos.com

5. 
JAGUAR C-X75 (2010)
Jaguar cancelled further development of this little artwork in 2012. 
With a price of around £800,000, it fell victim to the credit crunch. 
Still, at least we can enjoy the smooth lines of its Lamborghini-like front end and F-Type-like rear. Even the spec reads like the manual for a jet plane. Gas turbines? Really? Originally conceived as the heir to the XJ220, fear not. Both the power-train and the exterior design are set to see use in future Jaguars. Roll on tomorrow! 
99

4. 
MASERATI BIRDCAGE 75TH (2005)
Look at this exquisitely sculpted carbon chassis concept. The documentary telling the story of its creation was even called Sleek Dreams. With an all-in-one canopy, instead of doors and hinges to spoil its curves, you could almost be a pilot in a fighter jet. Pity they haven't put it into production. 
www.unrealautos.com

101

ASTON MARTIN CC100 (2013)
3. It took something exceptional to get to number three in our list of coolest concept cars, and here it is. The racing-inspired twin rear buttresses and open cockpit have been married with the wow factor of Aston Martin to give you something with rather more than 100cc. Cool ... cool ... cool! 
www.unrealautos.com

103

www.unrealautos.com

2. 
MERCEDES-BENZ VISION GT 
(2013)
Conceived for the no-holds-barred world of console game Gran Turismo 6, Merc's futuristic feather-light concept features an aluminium space-frame chassis and no fewer than eight exhaust outlets. You could shave yourself in its mirror-like body whilst admiring its 1950s 300SL-inspired grille. 
105


DOWNLOAD THESE PHOTOS AS 
DESKTOP WALLPAPERS OR POSTERS
Go to www.unrealautos.com/wallpapers
www.unrealautos.com

1.MORGAN EVA GT (2010)
Planned for production in 2014, the Batmobile-like Eva 
GT project was halted in early 2013. With a silver colour scheme and lines that evoke the Aston One-77, this 
would've been the jewel in Morgan's crown. The clay 
mock-up they did make has left us with some beautiful 
images. Lightweight luxury combined with 306 bhp of 
straight-six twin-turbo power was the ambitious vision 
for this marriage of tradition and future-candy. 
107

www.unrealautos.com

Piles o' scrap 
The number of cars scrapped in the UK in 2011 
was 1,220,873, up from 995,496 in 2006. In 2009 
the USA, which has only 5 times the population of 
the UK, scrapped a whopping 14 million cars, with 
much of the metal going to China. 
109

Looking sideways at machine
It glancing back at me
Something more than motor
More than glass and metal
I'm sure I felt its mischief
So sure I saw it smile
In something of its driving
In town and country mile
www.unrealautos.com

111









CHAPTER 6
TOP 5 FUTURISTIC CARS 
FROM SCI-FI FILMS
Many of you have been asking what are the most iconic, stylish, mean-looking and beautifully designed vehicles from the sci-fi genre of movies. 
Ask no further, because here are our top 5 futuristic cars from film. These amazing vehicles are either real, albeit modified, production cars or bespoke concept designs. See if you recognize any of these from your favourite sci-fi movies. 
www.unrealautos.com

113

5. 
LEXUS CONCEPT MADE FOR 
SPIELBERG'S MINORITY 
REPORT (2002)
In at no. 5 comes a thing of such beauty, that it's worth bearing in mind it was more than just special effects. 

When Lexus fan Steven Spielberg approached 
the company for a specially commissioned concept, 
this is what Lexus gave him. What a piece of sculpture! 
www.unrealautos.com

115

www.unrealautos.com

4. 
AUDI FLEET SHUTTLE 
QUATTRO (2013)
Sharp enough to bring tears to your eyes, Audi 
have used their virtual reality debut to bring 
a CGI car to the new, hot-off-the-presses film 
adaptation of Ender's Game. Is that a nuclear 
glow emitting from those pimp-my-grand-
son's-ride wheels? Who can say, but with quat-
tro handling it's sure to go far. The green cab 
almost makes it look like the passengers are 
under water and it has more gills along the 
running boards than a shark. This is one con-
cept that won't be sinking though. 
117

www.unrealautos.com

3. 
FORD INTERCEPTOR (2014)
The story behind the new Ford for Mad Max: Fury Road, 
due out in 2015, is itself unusual. They actually developed two concepts to put them out to public vote, to see which one will finally appear in the film. On this page we have the Brookliner, and on the left, the NiMachine. See which Interceptor you like best. They're both absolutely rocking. 
It's a pity it doesn't look like Mel Gibson will be at the wheel. 
119

2. 
THE BOMBPROOF 
BATMOBILE IN BATMAN 
(1989)
We had to give you at least one batmobile 
from one of the Batman films. Today, fans still 
talk about the 1960s car but there is one clas-
sic scene from the 1989 outing that is worthy of 
a reminder. 

How awesome is a car that drops a 
bomb from its hubcap and is then so protect-
ed by its own shields that the building around 
it blows up, but the car is left unharmed. 
www.unrealautos.com


DOWNLOAD THESE PHOTOS AS  
DESKTOP WALLPAPERS OR POSTERS
Go to www.unrealautos.com/wallpapers
121

1.DELOREAN FROM BACK TO THE 
FUTURE (1985)
In 1st place it could only be one car and one film. The atomic DeLorean at the heart of the mad doc's schemes was the first time many cinema-goers had seen time travelled in such gull-winged style. 

Interestingly, four of the ten cars in our original list were the brain-child of one man - Jay Ohrberg, from whom we get KITT (Knight Rider), the Panthermobile, the Batmobile and the modified DeLorean. To see the cars that didn't make our list and vote for your favourite, visit www.unrealautos.com. 

Now if we can just get it up to 88 mph...
www.unrealautos.com

123

The Beast 
President Obama's official armoured limou-
sine, 'The Beast', has inch-thick windows to 
render it bulletproof. On a visit to Ireland, 
an identical support limo in the presidential 
cavalcade beached itself on the kerb while 
leaving the US Embassy in Dublin, blocking 
The Beast in behind it. 
www.unrealautos.com

125

Is it a car? 
Is it an airship? 

If you had been around in Britain or 
Europe during either of the world wars, 
you would have seen cars, buses and 
trucks with large gas bags above their 
rooves. Petrol (gasoline) was so short 
that some people adapted their motor 
vehicles to run off coal gas instead. 
www.unrealautos.com

127

www.unrealautos.com









CHAPTER 7
WHEN WILL WE HAVE A FLYING CAR? 
Never mind Harry Potter and the world of fantasy. The short answer, from expert futurists, is in the next 5-10 years. 
That's when we might get one. The long answer is 
a bit more complicated. 
129

WHAT DO WE MEAN? 
Well, the technology is one thing, and you're going to see, from some of the prototypes already working, that the flying car is technically here already. It's really a question of obstacles and solutions. 
www.unrealautos.com

OBSTACLES & SOLUTIONS
There are a few things in the way of you - or your neighbour - actually being able to buy one and use it at home. When will flying cars become approved, mass-produced, manageable and affordable? 
How will we get around those problems? 
131


If it has wings and rotors for cruising the skies, it needs to retract those wings and have engine-driven wheels when it's on the ground, sharing narrow space with oncoming road-users. 
AEROMOBIL.COM
AEROMOBIL.COM
www.unrealautos.com


AEROMOBIL 2.5 FOLDS ITS WINGS 
BACK FOR ROAD TRAVEL
AEROMOBIL.COM
133

ENERGY CONSUMPTION & COSTS
Although most flying cars we're showing you have retractable wings, here's one that uses a motor and parachute much like an ultralight. The SkyRunner has the advantage of being able to glide slowly in to land in the event of an emergency. 
It also means less energy is consumed as it's just a light weight buggy, aided by wind power and a little extra lift from the engine. Other fixed-wing flying cars are likely to spend quite a bit of your cash in fuel. 
It's also worth saying that many more elaborate flying cars come with aeroplane price tags over £100,000. 
ANDRECARS.COM
www.unrealautos.com

THE DORSET-BUILT PARAJET SKYRUNNER 
CAN DO 55 MPH IN THE AIR
135


MAINTENANCE & SERVICING
Okay, so all of the designers of serious flying cars still have to approach this problem of making a machine suitable for flying and driving in the same unit. But that doesn't just apply to design; it af-fects the maintenance and servicing needs too. 
Think of all the extra parts you'll need looking over. It doesn't matter too much if your car breaks down on the road and you have to pull over; but how do you find the hard shoulder up on Cloud 9? Flight takes travel safety to a whole new level. 
TERRAFUGIA.COM / DRIVENTOFLY.COM
www.unrealautos.com

137

TRAINING & LICENSING
Learning to drive a car is one thing. Learning 
to fly a plane is much more involved, harder 
and expensive; but what about learning to 
control something that does both? 
All of these issues will have to be worked 
out with national governments, their civil 
aviation authorities like the UK CAA and US 
FAA, and finally, national road transport 
authorities. 
www.unrealautos.com

139

At least the serious flying car-makers are planning automated computer flying to help the novice get going. We leave you with the TF-X Concept from Terrafugia with extending wings, automatic flight and vertical take-off. 
So yes, the flying car is really here now, but look out for newer, more automated-flying models in a few years time that will make it safer and more affordable. Until then, safe dreaming! 
TERRAFUGIA.COM / DRIVENTOFLY.COM
www.unrealautos.com



THE TERRAFUGIA TF-X CONCEPT NEEDS NO 
RUNWAY AND DOES IT ALL FOR YOU
141

Breathing cars 
Car engines need 14.7 litres of air for every 1 litre of 
fuel vapour they combust. That's why they struggle to 
keep going at the highest altitudes. 
www.unrealautos.com

143









CHAPTER 8
TOP 10 TIPS FROM 
PROFESSIONAL RACERS
Brace yourself for our run-down of top driving tips from 
the greats of motorsport. We've gathered together the 
condensed wisdom from Formula 1 Season Champions, 
IndyCar heroes, Le Mans winners and more besides. 
Are you ready? Go! 
www.unrealautos.com

145

10. 
USE A HIGHER GEAR IN WINTRY 
CONDITIONS - JAMES NASH
World Touring Car star, James Nash, has a winter driving tip for you. Use a higher gear, which uses more torque, and thus 
reduces your risk of wheel-spinning and loss of grip on 
slippy road surfaces. It could reduce your fuel con-
sumption as well as lessening your chances of 
losing control during acceleration. 
www.unrealautos.com

147

9. 
IMPROVE YOUR 
AWARENESS - JENSON 
BUTTON
British F1 winner Jenson Button wants you to 
improve your awareness of other road users 
ahead, behind, and to the side of you. Take 
heed to changing road conditions, and shifts 
in visibility, brought on by banks of fog or 
turning off onto minor roads. 
www.unrealautos.com

149

www.unrealautos.com

8. 
SLOW DOWN - 
MIKA HÄKKINEN
Finnish racer Mika Häkkinen, F1 champ in 1998 and 
'99, says his top tip is to slow down. The Finns are 
masters at car control and Mika stresses that safe 
driving is very much about speed. 
151

7. 
AVOID UNNECESSARY 
BRAKING - DAMON HILL
British F1 hero Damon Hill's eco-driving tip helps save 
the fuel wasted by unnecessary braking. Conserve mo-
mentum when approaching traffic lights, and predict 
their changes, along with those of fellow road users in 
your path. 
www.unrealautos.com

153

6. 
MAKE TRANSITIONS SMOOTH - 
JACKIE STEWART
Jackie Stewart is the only British racer to win three F1 seasons. He recommends driving so as to make transitions impercep tible, between straight and turning, and braking and acceleration. It's better for grip - and passenger comfort. 
www.unrealautos.com

155

www.unrealautos.com

5. 
STOP TAILGATING - 
JOHNNY O'CONNELL
Johnny O'Connell, IndyCar driver and four-time winner at Le Mans, thinks that some people have been watching too much NASCAR. They leave their TVs behind but take the driving style out onto the street. Stay well behind that car in front! 
157

www.unrealautos.com

4. 
HANDLE TYRE-BURSTS MORE SAFELY 
- SIMON PAGENAUD
Avoid a nasty uncontrolled collision, says LMP1 and Atlantic Championship winner, Simon Pagenaud. When a tyre bursts at speed don't just hit the brake hard. 
It's much safer to declutch and engage Neutral, then brake lightly. 
159

3. 
TWO HANDS ON 
THE WHEEL ONCE 
IN GEAR - MARK 
WEBBER
It sounds like beginners' stuff but 
when Mark Webber took fellow 
Red Bull team member Jon DeVore 
out on the track, he reminded him 
to keep two hands on the wheel. 
As soon as you've made that gear 
change, both hands back on. If 
anything happens like a wheel 
brush with a kerb at speed, you 
don't want the steering to fly out of 
your grip! 
www.unrealautos.com

161

www.unrealautos.com

2.DON'T SLAM ON THE 
BRAKES IF THE CAR 
SLIDES - DAVID 
COULTHARD
In winter road conditions, the car might start 
to slide, but the worst thing you can do is panic 
and hit the brakes as hard as you can. So says Brit-
ish 2003 GP hero, David Coulthard. Stop applying 
the gas, of course, but rather than brake, allow 
the wheels to keep turning and they will re-
gain grip soon enough. Also, preventative-
ly, only drive at a speed you can recover 
from, if a slide does start to occur. 
163

1. 
KNOW YOUR DRIVING LIMITS 
- MICHAEL SCHUMACHER
Statistically the most successful Formula 1 champion of all time Michael Schumacher says it's essential to know your 
driving limits, as well as those of the road and your vehicle. 
Knowledge is power - the power to stay in one piece. 
www.unrealautos.com

165

Noise is all around me
Engines screaming
Crowds are shouting
Flash bulbs a plenty
For tomorrow's back pages
Men by my sides
Chomping at the bit
Wishing they were
Where I was
But for me all is silent
Save my own car and racing pulse
All is black
Save the starting lights ahead
And the track is empty
Save the beast underfoot
Every second lasts a minute
Every minute lasts an hour
The lights change
The sword of Damocles drops
www.unrealautos.com

167

www.unrealautos.com









CHAPTER 9
TOP 5 IN-CAR GADGETS
You're never going to believe some of the cool gadgets that are out there to enhance your in-car experience. It wasn't so long ago that the most useful thing to pop into your car's 12V power socket was a cigar lighter. 

Today though the sky's the limit - and it's all much easier on the lungs. The tech is bordering on the futuristic in some cases and it's doing everything from giving you journey information whilst keeping your eyes on the road, to that strong cuppa to help keep you alert. Take a sneaky peek at what we mean... 
169

www.unrealautos.com

5. 
HEAD-UP DISPLAY
The future is here and important journey information like the car's speed can now be beamed onto the windscreen much like the helmet HUD in a fighter jet. The safety benefits of not having to avert your gaze from the road are pretty obvious, but think of how much you can impress your passengers too. 
171

www.unrealautos.com

4. 
BANG & OLUFSEN ACOUSTIC 
LENSES
Jezza on Top Gear once got very excited about these, 
but then he loves anything by B&O. These futuristic 
audio speakers rise from the fascia when in use and 
disappear again when not. The retractable delectables 
enable a listener to hear optimum sound regardless of 
their location within the vehicle. 
173

3. 
GOOGLE GLASS
While not specifically a car gadget, Google Glass promises to deliver a head-up information and communication experience that's just like the HUD above, but will move as your head moves. The jury's still out on the pros and cons of driver safety while using Google Glass, but just imagine being a passenger and pushing back in your seat while seeing the scenery fly by to the accompa-niment of StreetView-style labels, restaurant reviews and audio track information. Scary or what?! 
www.unrealautos.com

WITH GOOGLE GLASS YOU GET A HEAD-UP DISPLAY RIGHT 
IN FRONT OF YOUR RIGHT EYE,  JUST AS YOU SEE HERE
175

www.unrealautos.com

2. 
HANDPRESSO AUTO 
COFFEE-MAKER
Another lighter socket-powered gizmo, this 
attractive unit makes a proper high-pressure 
espresso from the convenience of a road lay-
by. Caffeine, that great fuel of the long-distance 
driver, is now available without leaving your 
vehicle or paying a motorway service station for 
the privilege of fleecing you. 
177


DISCOVER MORE WORLD-CLASS 
PREMIUM CAR ACCESSORIES ONLINE 
AT UNREALAUTOS.COM
Go to www.unrealautos.com/shop
www.unrealautos.com

1.NISSAN NISMO WATCH
Check out Nissan's latest piece of arm candy. 
That reassuring brand of Japanese reliability has 
come up with an ingenious way of prompting you 
to keep on top of your car's - and your body's 
- vital statistics. Aside from looking very differ-
ent to your average wristwatch, the Nismo (see 
what they did there - Nissan/gizmo?) reminds 
you about loads of useful stuff from fuel level and 
wiper fluid to tyre status and where you parked 
the car. It even monitors your brainwaves, heart 
activity and skin temperature! 
179

www.unrealautos.com

That's long! 
The longest street-legal, limited-production car ever made was the 1931 
Bugatti Royale Type 41. At 6.4m (21ft) long, spare a thought for its drivers in the days before parking sensors were invented! 
181









CHAPTER 10
TOP 10 MOST BEAUTIFUL 
CARS BY DECADE
You can judge cars by power, 
control, price, size and safety. 
This list, though, is all about 
the looks. Some cars were 
considered classics in their 
time. Others achieved cult 
status many years later. 
What is history's verdict 
on the beautiful from each 
period of automotive history? 
www.unrealautos.com









CHAPTER 10
TOP 10 MOST BEAUTIFUL 
CARS BY DECADE
183

BEAUTY IS IN THE EYE OF THE BEHOLDER
If you ask a car enthusiast from America you'll get a very different answer about what makes a pretty motor than if you asked a European, so we've tried to reflect as wide a range of tastes and nationalities as possible. These cars are, as we see it, the most beautiful car of each decade, starting with the '20's... 
www.unrealautos.com

1920s
10. 
DUESENBERG MODEL A 
(USA)
1920S - DUE
The German-Americ SENBERG 
an Duesenberg brothers made 
MODEL
some classic  A
ally  (US
gangst A)
erish mobster cars in the 1930s, 
but they also produced some beauties in the 20s. Check 
out the bowtie double bumper at the front. 
The German-American Duesenberg brothers made 
some classically gangsterish mobster cars in the 
1930s, but they also produced some beauties in the 
20s. Check out the bowtie double bumper at the front. 
185

1930s
DELAHAYE 165 (FRANCE)
In the beauty stakes, the 30s were a great time 
for cars. The same Art Deco movement that left 
its mark on the world of architecture gave us 
some cracking motors too. This little number is a 
wonderful work of art. 
www.unrealautos.com


DOWNLOAD THESE PHOTOS AS 
DESKTOP WALLPAPERS OR POSTERS
Go to www.unrealautos.com/wallpapers
187

1940s
ROLLS-ROYCE PHANTOM-III 
VUTOTAL LABOURDETTE
(UK/FRANCE)
www.unrealautos.com

Here's a car with an interesting story. Built originally 
by Rolls-Royce just before the outbreak of the Second 
World War, it was stripped and substantially rebodied 
by coachbuilder Labourdette of Paris after the war. 
With lavish embellishments costing an eye-watering 
$44,000 in scarce 1940s currency, the results are noth-
ing short of breathtaking. The brass fittings catch the 
sun, even in an overcast England, reminding us of the 
golden age of automotive elegance. 
189

www.unrealautos.com

7. 
1950s
1950S - MERCEDE
MERCEDE
S-BENZ 
S-BENZ 300SL 
(
300SL (GERMANY)
GERMANY)
The pr The production gullwing 
oduction gullwing v
v
ersion o ersion o
f this gr f this gr
ound- ound-
br
br
eaking r eaking r
acing c acing c
ar arriv ar arrived in 1955. 
ed in 1955. With v With 
ertical-vertical-
opening doors so ic
opening doors so iconic thatonic 
Merthat
c
Mer
edes re cedes r
vived  evived 
them man
them many y
y 
ears latyears lat
er for 
er for 
the SLS,  the SLS, the 300SL
the 300SL 

wasn't w
just asn't
kno  just
wn f  kno
or wn for
its look  its looks. Boasting 
s. Boasting the first  the first 
ever c
ever c
onsumer onsumer

fuel injection and 
fuel injection and the fast the 
est  fastest 
r
road speeds o
oad speeds of its day f its day
, even R , even R
alph L
alph L
auren 
auren had 
had t
to hav
o hav
e one in his priv
e one in his privat
at
e c e collection. 
ollection. 

J
James Bond may
ames Bond may not hav  not hav
e driv
e driven one, 
en one, but 

but
perhaps if  perhaps if
he'
he
d been on  'd been on 
the big scr
the big
een 

a few y screen a 
ears befor f
e ew years befor
the DB5 arriv e the DB5
ed, he 

might'v arrived, he might'v
e done. Curved t
e done. Curv
o perfection! 
ed 
to perfection! 
191

1960s
JAGUAR E-TYPE (UK)
Also known in the American market as the XK-E, the E-Type consistently tops polls for most beautiful car ever. Famously lauded by rival carmaker, Enzo Ferrari himself, the E-Type was perhaps Britain's finest automotive hour. 
www.unrealautos.com


DOWNLOAD THESE PHOTOS AS A 
DESKTOP WALLPAPERS OR POSTERS
193
Go to www.unrealautos.com/wallpapers

1970s
PORSCHE 930 (GERMANY)
Better known to most people as the 911 Turbo, 1975 saw 
the arrival of a car that has stood the test of time. 
The words '911' and 'Turbo' belong together like 
whisky and soda, and Porsche's fusion of the 
already established 911 shape with the whale-
tail spoiler was a milestone in sports car his-
tory. Of all the 911 generations, the 930 had 
the longest run, only finishing in 1989. What a 
testament to its enduring good looks. 
www.unrealautos.com

195

1980s
FERRARI TESTAROSSA 
(ITALY)
Despite the suspiciously similar 'testosterone', and 
despite it having a certain 
appeal to red-blooded 
men, the Testarossa 
apparently means 'red-
head'. This beautiful 
beast certainly has a fiery 
personality. 
www.unrealautos.com

197

www.unrealautos.com

1990s
PAGANI ZONDA (ITALY)
The Zonda C12 hit the tarmac in 1999 and took 
the supercar world by storm. Only replaced 
by the Huayra after thirteen years of pro-
duction, (a car which itself holds top 
position in TopGear's Power Lap Table), 
the Zonda has style as well as speed. 
Named for an air current in South 
America, even the word Zonda just 
flows off the tongue, much like the 
wind over its exquisitely sculpted 
body. The boldness of some of 
its colour schemes was only 
matched by the ambition of 
its flamboyant designers. 
199

www.unrealautos.com


2000s
MORGAN AEROMAX (UK)
Morgan has built up a reputation 
for building cars that evoke 
the sleek lines of a bygone era 
whilst putting the fun back into 
motoring. The AeroMax first 
appeared in 2005, being built 
upon the Aero 8, but with an even 
better-looking front end. Now for 
that relaxing drive to the weekend 
cottage in the Cotswolds! 
DOWNLOAD THESE PHOTOS AS 
DESKTOP WALLPAPERS OR POSTERS
Go to www.unrealautos.com/wallpapers
201

2010s 
LAMBORGHINI 
HURACÁN (ITALY)
The family resemblance may be 
unmistakeable but this is a Lambo of 
distinction. Hot off the presses as Unreal 
Autos went into print, the Huracán is sleeker 
and more elegant than the Gallardo from 
which it has evolved. Watch out for it at the 
2014 Geneva Auto Show where it's sure to 
make a dramatic entrance. 
www.unrealautos.com

203

YOU'VE 
READ THE 
BOOK, NOW 
DRIVE THE CARS... 
Go to 
www.unrealautos.com/drive
www.unrealautos.com

205

www.unrealautos.com

WANT TO SEE MORE AMAZING CARS? 
TOP 10 MOST BEAUTIFUL FERRARIS 
Check out histories most beautiful Ferrari's, America's best OF ALL TIME
muscle cars and more at 
Where  www
will y .unr
ou 
ealaut
find 
os.c
the most ex om/
clusiv worlds-best
e gathering of It -cars
alian stallions? A 
clue: Look for those yellow shields. This scarlet sea of stylish European supercars is just a foretaste of what you'll find online at UnrealAutos. 
com. Someone once said that reds go faster, and behind the wheel of one of these for a day, you'll be able to put that to the test. 
Check them out now and get your next desktop wallpaper at www.unrealautos.com. 
207

WHAT IS THAT CAR? 
Prepare to be dazzled by the world's most unbelievable 
concept cars, exotic cars, ridiculous modifications and 
super-clever technological innovations. It's all there on www.unrealautos.com. Just click on "World's Best Cars" 
and you'll see... 
www.unrealautos.com

209
















