





The Discipline of Organizing

Table of Contents



Foreword to the First Edition


Preface


Abstract


1. Foundations for Organizing Systems


1.1. The Discipline of Organizing


1.2. The "Organizing System" Concept


1.2.1. The Concept of "Resource"


1.2.2. The Concept of "Collection"


1.2.3. The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement"


1.2.3.1. The Concept of "Organizing Principle"


1.2.3.2. The Concept of "Agent"




1.2.4. The Concept of "Interactions"




1.3. Design Decisions in Organizing Systems


1.3.1. Organizing Systems in a "Design Space"


1.3.1.1. Conventional Ways to Classify Organizing Systems


1.3.1.2. A Multifaceted or Multidimensional View




1.3.2. What Is Being Organized?


1.3.3. Why Is It Being Organized?


1.3.4. How Much Is It Being Organized?


1.3.5. When Is It Being Organized?


1.3.6. How (or by Whom) Is It Organized?




1.4. Organizing This Book




2. Activities in Organizing Systems


2.1. Introduction


2.2. Selecting Resources


2.2.1. Selecting {and, or, vs.} Organizing


2.2.2. Selection Principles


2.2.3. Selection of Digital and Web-based Resources




2.3. Organizing Resources


2.3.1. Organizing Physical Resources


2.3.1.1. Organizing with Properties of Physical Resources


2.3.1.2. Organizing with Descriptions of Physical Resources




2.3.2. Organizing Digital Resources


2.3.2.1. Organizing Web-based Resources


2.3.2.2. "Information Architecture" and Organizing Systems




2.3.3. Organizing with Multiple Resource Properties




2.4. Designing Resource-based Interactions


2.4.1. Affordance and Capability


2.4.2. Interaction and Value Creation


2.4.2.1. Value Creation with Physical Resources


2.4.2.2. Value Creation with Digital Resources




2.4.3. Access Policies




2.5. Maintaining Resources


2.5.1. Motivations for Maintaining Resources


2.5.2. Preservation


2.5.2.1. Digitization and Preserving Resources


2.5.2.2. Preserving the Web


2.5.2.3. Preserving Resource Instances


2.5.2.4. Preserving Resource Types


2.5.2.5. Preserving Resource Collections




2.5.3. Curation


2.5.3.1. Institutional Curation


2.5.3.2. Individual Curation


2.5.3.3. Social and Web Curation


2.5.3.4. Computational Curation




2.5.4. Governance


2.5.4.1. Governance in Business Organizing Systems


2.5.4.2. Governance in Scientific Organizing Systems






2.6. Key Points in Chapter Two




3. Resources in Organizing Systems


3.1. Introduction


3.1.1. What Is a Resource?


3.1.1.1. Resources with Parts


3.1.1.2. Bibliographic Resources, Information Components, and "Smart
                        Things" as Resources




3.1.2. Identity, Identifiers, and Names




3.2. Four Distinctions about Resources


3.2.1. Resource Domain


3.2.2. Resource Format


3.2.3. Resource Agency


3.2.3.1. Passive or Operand Resources


3.2.3.2. Active or Operant Resources




3.2.4. Resource Focus


3.2.5. Resource Format x Focus


3.2.5.1. Physical Description of a Primary Physical Resource


3.2.5.2. Digital Description of a Primary Physical Resource


3.2.5.3. Digital Description of a Primary Digital Resource


3.2.5.4. Physical Description of a Primary Digital Resource






3.3. Resource Identity


3.3.1. Identity and Physical Resources


3.3.2. Identity and Bibliographic Resources


3.3.3. Identity and Information Components


3.3.4. Identity and Active Resources




3.4. Naming Resources


3.4.1. What's in a Name?


3.4.2. The Problems of Naming


3.4.2.1. The Vocabulary Problem


3.4.2.2. Homonymy, Polysemy, and False Cognates


3.4.2.3. Names with Undesirable Associations


3.4.2.4. Names that Assume Impermanent Attributes


3.4.2.5. The Semantic Gap




3.4.3. Choosing Good Names and Identifiers


3.4.3.1. Make Names Informative


3.4.3.2. Use Controlled Vocabularies


3.4.3.3. Allow Aliasing


3.4.3.4. Make Identifiers Unique or Qualified


3.4.3.5. Distinguish Identifying and Resolving






3.5. Resources over Time


3.5.1. Persistence


3.5.1.1. Persistent Identifiers


3.5.1.2. Persistent Resources




3.5.2. Effectivity


3.5.3. Authenticity


3.5.4. Provenance




3.6. Key Points in Chapter Three




4. Resource Description and Metadata


4.1. Introduction


4.2. An Overview of Resource Description


4.2.1. Naming {and, or, vs.} Describing


4.2.2. "Description" as an Inclusive Term


4.2.2.1. Bibliographic Descriptions


4.2.2.2. Metadata


4.2.2.3. Tagging of Web-based Resources


4.2.2.4. Resource Description Framework (RDF)




4.2.3. Frameworks for Resource Description




4.3. The Process of Describing Resources


4.3.1. Determining the Scope and Focus


4.3.1.1. Describing Instances or Describing Collections


4.3.1.2. Abstraction in Resource Description


4.3.1.3. Scope, Scale, and Resource Description




4.3.2. Determining the Purposes


4.3.2.1. Resource Description to Support Selection


4.3.2.2. Resource Description to Support Organizing


4.3.2.3. Resource Description to Support Interactions


4.3.2.4. Resource Description to Support Maintenance




4.3.3. Identifying Properties


4.3.3.1. Intrinsic Static Properties


4.3.3.2. Extrinsic Static Properties


4.3.3.3. Intrinsic Dynamic Properties


4.3.3.4. Extrinsic Dynamic Properties




4.3.4. Designing the Description Vocabulary


4.3.4.1. Principles of Good Description


4.3.4.2. Who Uses the Descriptions?


4.3.4.3. Controlled Vocabularies and Content Rules


4.3.4.4. Vocabulary Control as Dimensionality Reduction




4.3.5. Designing the Description Form


4.3.6. Creating Resource Descriptions


4.3.6.1. Resource Description by Professionals


4.3.6.2. Resource Description by Authors or Creators


4.3.6.3. Resource Description by Users


4.3.6.4. Computational and Automated Resource Description




4.3.7. Evaluating Resource Descriptions


4.3.7.1. Evaluating the Creation of Resource Descriptions


4.3.7.2. Evaluating the Use of Resource Descriptions


4.3.7.3. The Importance of Iterative Evaluation






4.4. Describing Non-text Resources


4.4.1. Describing Museum and Artistic Resources


4.4.2. Describing Images


4.4.3. Describing Music


4.4.4. Describing Video


4.4.5. Describing Resource Context




4.5. Key Points in Chapter Four




5. Describing Relationships and Structures


5.1. Introduction


5.2. Describing Relationships: An Overview


5.3. The Semantic Perspective


5.3.1. Types of Semantic Relationships


5.3.1.1. Inclusion


5.3.1.2. Attribution


5.3.1.3. Possession




5.3.2. Properties of Semantic Relationships


5.3.2.1. Symmetry


5.3.2.2. Transitivity


5.3.2.3. Equivalence


5.3.2.4. Inverse




5.3.3. Ontologies




5.4. The Lexical Perspective


5.4.1. Relationships among Word Meanings


5.4.1.1. Hyponymy and Hyperonymy


5.4.1.2. Metonymy


5.4.1.3. Synonymy


5.4.1.4. Polysemy


5.4.1.5. Antonymy




5.4.2. Thesauri


5.4.3. Relationships among Word Forms


5.4.3.1. Derivational Morphology


5.4.3.2. Inflectional Morphology






5.5. The Structural Perspective


5.5.1. Intentional, Implicit, and Explicit Structure


5.5.2. Structural Relationships within a Resource


5.5.3. Structural Relationships between Resources


5.5.3.1. Hypertext Links


5.5.3.2. Analyzing Link Structures


5.5.3.3. Bibliometrics, Shepardizing, and Social Network Analysis






5.6. The Architectural Perspective


5.6.1. Degree


5.6.2. Cardinality


5.6.3. Directionality




5.7. The Implementation Perspective 


5.7.1. Choice of Implementation


5.7.2. Syntax and Grammar


5.7.3. Requirements for Implementation Syntax




5.8. Relationships in Organizing Systems


5.8.1. The Semantic Web and Linked Data


5.8.2. Bibliographic Organizing Systems


5.8.2.1. Tillett's Taxonomy


5.8.2.2. Resource Description and Access (RDA)


5.8.2.3. RDA and the Semantic Web




5.8.3. Integration and Interoperability




5.9. Key Points in Chapter Five




6. Categorization: Describing Resource Classes and Types


6.1. Introduction


6.2. The What and Why of Categories


6.2.1. Cultural Categories


6.2.2. Individual Categories


6.2.3. Institutional Categories


6.2.4. A "Categorization Continuum"




6.3. Principles for Creating Categories


6.3.1. Enumeration


6.3.2. Single Properties


6.3.3. Multiple Properties


6.3.3.1. Multi-Level or Hierarchical Categories


6.3.3.2. Different Properties for Subsets of Resources


6.3.3.3. Necessary and Sufficient Properties




6.3.4. The Limits of Property-Based Categorization


6.3.5. Family Resemblance


6.3.6. Similarity


6.3.7. Theory-Based Categories


6.3.8. Goal-Derived Categories




6.4. Category Design Issues and Implications


6.4.1. Category Abstraction and Granularity


6.4.2. Basic or Natural Categories


6.4.3. The Recall / Precision Tradeoff


6.4.4. Category Audience and Purpose




6.5. Implementing Categories


6.5.1. Implementing Classical Categories


6.5.2. Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory




6.6. Key Points in Chapter Six




7. Classification: Assigning Resources to Categories


7.1. Introduction


7.1.1. Classification vs. Categorization


7.1.2. Classification vs. Tagging


7.1.3. Classification vs. Physical Arrangement


7.1.4. Classification Schemes


7.1.5. Classification and Standardization


7.1.5.1. Institutional Taxonomies


7.1.5.2. Institutional Semantics


7.1.5.3. Specifications vs. Standards


7.1.5.4. Mandated Classifications






7.2. Understanding Classification


7.2.1. Classification Is Purposeful


7.2.1.1. Classifications Are Reference Models


7.2.1.2. Classifications Support Interactions




7.2.2. Classification Is Principled


7.2.2.1. Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme


7.2.2.2. Principles for Assigning Resources to Categories


7.2.2.3. Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time




7.2.3. Classification Is Biased




7.3. Bibliographic Classification


7.3.1. The Dewey Decimal Classification


7.3.2. The Library of Congress Classification


7.3.3. The BISAC Classification




7.4. Faceted Classification


7.4.1. Foundations for Faceted Classification


7.4.2. Faceted Classification in Description


7.4.3. A Classification for Facets


7.4.4. Designing a Faceted Classification System


7.4.4.1. Design Process for Faceted Classification


7.4.4.2. Design Principles and Pragmatics






7.5. Classification by Activity Structure


7.6. Computational Classification


7.7. Key Points in Chapter Seven




8. The Forms of Resource Descriptions


8.1. Introduction


8.2. Structuring Descriptions


8.2.1. Kinds of Structures


8.2.1.1. Blobs


8.2.1.2. Sets


8.2.1.3. Lists


8.2.1.4. Dictionaries


8.2.1.5. Trees


8.2.1.6. Graphs




8.2.2. Comparing Metamodels: JSON, XML and RDF


8.2.2.1. JSON


8.2.2.2. XML Information Set


8.2.2.3. RDF


8.2.2.4. Choosing Your Constraints




8.2.3. Modeling within Constraints


8.2.3.1. Specifying Vocabularies and Schemas


8.2.3.2. Controlling Values






8.3. Writing Descriptions


8.3.1. Notations


8.3.2. Writing Systems


8.3.3. Syntax




8.4. Worlds of Description


8.4.1. The Document Processing World


8.4.2. The Web World


8.4.3. The Semantic Web World




8.5. Key Points in Chapter Eight




9. Interactions with Resources


9.1. Introduction


9.2. Determining Interactions


9.2.1. User Requirements


9.2.2. Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints




9.3. Reorganizing Resources for Interactions


9.3.1. Identifying and Describing Resources for Interactions


9.3.2. Transforming Resources for Interactions


9.3.2.1. Transforming Resources from Multiple or Legacy Organizing Systems


9.3.2.2. Modes of Transformation


9.3.2.3. Granularity and Abstraction


9.3.2.4. Accuracy of Transformations






9.4. Implementing Interactions


9.4.1. Interactions Based on Instance Properties


9.4.1.1. Boolean Retrieval


9.4.1.2. Tag / Annotate




9.4.2. Interactions Based on Collection Properties


9.4.2.1. Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models


9.4.2.2. Synonym Expansion with Latent Semantic Indexing


9.4.2.3. Structure-Based Retrieval


9.4.2.4. Clustering / Classification




9.4.3. Interactions Based on Derived Properties


9.4.3.1. Popularity-Based Retrieval


9.4.3.2. Citation-Based Retrieval


9.4.3.3. Translation




9.4.4. Interactions Based on Combining Resources


9.4.4.1. Mash-Ups


9.4.4.2. Linked Data Retrieval and Resource Discovery






9.5. Evaluating Interactions


9.5.1. Efficiency


9.5.2. Effectiveness


9.5.2.1. Relevance


9.5.2.2. The Recall / Precision Tradeoff




9.5.3. Satisfaction




9.6. Key Points in Chapter Nine




10. The Organizing System Roadmap


10.1. Introduction


10.2. The Organizing System Lifecycle


10.3. Defining and Scoping the Organizing System Domain


10.3.1. Scope and Scale of the Collection


10.3.2. Number and Nature of Users


10.3.3. Expected Lifetime of the Resources and of the Organizing System


10.3.4. Physical or Technological Environment


10.3.5. Relationship to Other Organizing Systems




10.4. Identifying Requirements for an Organizing System


10.4.1. Requirements for Interactions in Organizing Systems


10.4.2. Requirements about the Nature and Extent of Resource Description


10.4.3. Requirements about Intentional Arrangement


10.4.4. Dealing with Conflicting Requirements




10.5. Designing and Implementing an Organizing System


10.5.1. Choosing Scope- and Scale-Appropriate Technology


10.5.2. Architectural Thinking


10.5.3. Distinguishing Access to Resources from Resource Control


10.5.4. Standardization and Legacy Considerations




10.6. Operating and Maintaining an Organizing System


10.6.1. Maintaining an Organizing System: Resource Perspective


10.6.2. Maintaining an Organizing System: Properties, Principles and Technology
                Perspective




10.7. Key Points in Chapter Ten




11. Case Studies


11.1. A Multi-generational Photo Collection


11.2. Knowledge Management for a Small Consulting Firm


11.3. Smarter Farming in Japan


11.4. Single-Source Textbook Publishing


11.5. Organizing a Kitchen


11.6. Netflix


11.7. Luxury Brand Store


11.8. Weekly Newspaper


11.9. The CODIS DNA Database


11.10. Ikea


11.11. The Antikythera Mechanism


11.12. My Vegetable Garden


11.13. IP Addressing in the Global Internet


11.14. Knitting Supplies


11.15. Making a Documentary Film


11.16. Your Own Case Study Goes Here




Acknowledgments


Bibliography


Glossary


Index

























The Discipline of OrganizingCore Concepts EditionEdited by Robert J. GlushkoPrincipal Authors: Robert J. Glushko, Jess Hemerly, Murray Maloney, Kimra McPherson, Vivien Petras, Ryan Shaw, and Erik WildeContributing Authors: Rachelle Annechino, Matt  Earp, J.J.M. Ekaterin, Ryan Greenberg, Ian  MacFarland, Michael Manoochehri, Sean Marimpietri, Matthew Mayernik, Karen Joy Nomorosa, Hyunwoo Park, Alberto Pepe, Isabelle Sperano, Daniel D. Turner, and Longhao WangEditor:Robert J. GlushkoPrincipal Authors:Robert J. Glushko, Jess Hemerly, Murray Maloney, Kimra McPherson, Vivien Petras, Ryan Shaw, and Erik WildeContributing Authors:Rachelle Annechino, Matt  Earp, J.J.M. Ekaterin, Ryan Greenberg, Ian  MacFarland, Michael Manoochehri, Sean Marimpietri, Matthew Mayernik, Karen Joy Nomorosa, Hyunwoo Park, Alberto Pepe, Isabelle Sperano, Daniel D. Turner, and Longhao WangCase Study Authors:Ankita Bhosle, Colin Gerber, Ishita Ghosh, Shaun Giudici, Robert J. Glushko, Emilie Hardman, Hassan Jannah, Akos Kokai, Sandra Lee, Ian MacFarland, Murray Maloney, Andrew McConachie, Molly Robison, Becca Stanger, and Suhaib SyedCover Designer:Jen WangIllustrators:Divya Anand, Ajeeta Dhole, Christina Pham, and Raymon Sutedjo-TheBibliography Editors:Lisa  Jervis, Shohei  Narron, and Anne  WoottonQuiz Scriptors:Jacob Hartnell and Alex MilowskiDocBook Consultant:Bob  StaytonManaging Editor:Murray  MaloneyCopyright © 2013, 2014 Robert J. Glushko
Published by O'Reilly Media. Sebastopol, CA.
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval
            system, or transmitted in any form or by any means—electronic,
            mechanical, recording or otherwise—without the prior written
            consent of the publisher, excepting brief quotes in connection with reviews.
Any trademarks, registered names, or service marks mentioned in this book are the
            property of the respective holder(s).
The publishers and the authors are not responsible for the persistence or accuracy of
            the internet addresses (URIs) for websites referred to in this publication and cannot
            guarantee that the content of any such site is currently, will be, or has ever been
            suitable for your consumption for any intent or purpose.
Produced in the United States of America.

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

The discipline of organizing / edited by Robert J. Glushko.
 p. cm
Includes bibliographical references and index.

            

ISBN 978-1-491-91203-4 (retail ebook)

            
1. Information organization. 
2. Information resources management. 
3. Metadata. 
I. Glushko, Robert J., editor of compilation.
Z666.5.D57 2013
025—dc23                
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

This manifestation of The Discipline of Organizing 
            was produced by Murray Maloney
            on 2014-08-16 @ 10:11:32 Pacific Time 
            using a bespoke DocBook XSL script dated 2014/07/01 @ 18:40:46 UTC.
Dedication







To Aristotle, Plato, Linnaeus, Condorcet, Wittgenstein...






Panizzi, Cutter, Raganathan, Svenonius... 






Gibson, Norman, Rosch, Barsalou... 





Adam Smith, Coase, Williamson... 






Simon, Salton, Miller, Dumais...






Bush, Engelbart, Nelson, Berners-Lee... 



...and the countless others whose diverse perspectives
we have synthesized in the discipline of organizing.












Foreword to the First Edition
Jonathan Grudin

This wonderful book arrives at the right time. It is
        more than a textbook—it defines and creates the field for which it is
        a text. Befitting a book that lays out a discipline of organization that spans print and
        digital media, this volume is carefully organized, with a focus on future print and digital
        editions.
The Discipline of
            Organizing has a broad scope. Even more valuable is its depth, the result of
        years of examining and thinking through related concepts—often
        overlapping but not identical—from the fields of library science,
        information science, business, and computer science. The rare combination of breadth and
        depth empowers readers by providing a new perspective and framework for organizing
        subsequent experiences. The organization is comprehensive and systematic, but it is not
        simple. A lot of concepts must be assimilated. Yet thanks to the authors' thoroughness, you
        can proceed confident that investing the time to master novel concepts will pay off, that a
        coherent structure is being assembled, without inconsistencies or confusions. Into this
        framework you can fit your own examples, alongside the many provided by the authors. You can
        identify extensions and form new associations, building on a strong foundation.
The authors ask us to step back and adopt a general,
        multidisciplinary perspective. This is unusual for a textbook. For good reason, the world is
        marked by increasing specialization, the division of labor on which complex civilization
        depends. First we master a discipline; then we are encouraged to be multidisciplinary,
        interdisciplinary, and transdisciplinary—to balance our specialized
        pursuits. But scholars thrive within single disciplines, and even in fields created as
        multidisciplinary efforts, such as the neurosciences or cognitive science, most researchers
        soon become highly specialized. So why should a student of information undertake to master
        this broad perspective?
By growing from insignificance to centrality in the
        century-old field of information management in a few decades, digital technology has forced
        a disciplinary merger. Library science, information science, computer science or
        informatics, and information systems have developed different terminologies and sets of
        abstractions. Rather than asking each camp to learn the others' languages, the authors ask
        each of us to engage with a new terminology and set of abstractions.
The analogy of the artificial language Esperanto may
        come to mind, but we are in a better position. Esperanto is only useful if you are in a
        community of Esperantists. The abstractions in this book will be useful if others share
        them, but any reader will benefit by understanding the correspondences across the approaches
        to information organization that we encounter today. Unlike Esperanto, which is just another
        language, the concepts in this book reveal linkages and dependencies that we would not
        otherwise appreciate. The book provides a deep foundation for understanding changes that
        affect our lives and will do so more in the years ahead, a foundation that you will carry
        even if much of the time you converse in the language of one or another professional
        tribe.
Why do I say the timing is perfect, that this effort is worthwhile today?
        Have people not gotten by without it until now? The answer has two parts. One, which is
        important even if you have heard it before, is that this is a time of extraordinary change
        in our uses of information. The other is that people have not always "gotten
            by" very well; years have been wasted and careers damaged by not understanding
        the principles in this book. The likelihood of such wreckage is growing, as the waves of
        change are larger and come at us faster. On the positive side, the waves offer tremendous
        opportunity for accomplishment. The coming era of monster waves may be risky if we surf with
        a narrow focus, but thrilling for those whose view extends up and down the shoreline. I
        believe that if you read this book, you will see this point and be glad you read it. Let me
        know.
We are used to hearing about Moore's law and related
        legislation, but familiarity lowers our guard.  Human beings do not reason well about
        exponential growth: our experience is linear, not exponential. What we overlook is that
        exponential growth can proceed for a long time under the radar—one
        grain of rice, two grains, four grains, etc., not adding up to much, but when it reaches the
        point of having an impact, the impact comes so fast that we are unprepared for it. Decades
        passed before accessible digital technology could support high-quality photography, but when
        the time came, film photography disappeared so quickly that most major companies went
        bankrupt. Digital audio and video were a long time coming, then panicked and shuttered major
        industries. The expanding capacity and diminishing cost of information storage alter the
        balances described in this book. Bandwidth, increasing more slowly, is also reaching
        disruptive levels. This book provides the best tools available for understanding the
        disruptions of today and tomorrow in information management.
This perspective is invaluable now. It would have been
        useful earlier, but it was not considered imperative for the disciplines of library science,
        information science, informatics, and information systems. Historically they prospered
        despite interacting less than one might have expected. Library and information science,
        rooted in the humanities, focused technology efforts primarily on administrators and
        specialized users. Delivering services to the public was secondary. In contrast, academic
        computer science and human-computer interaction focused on widespread applications.
This book consciously connects fields that have focused
        on aspects of information organization and management such as archiving, records management,
        and curation, to information retrieval and related aspects of informatics. It explores how
        related issues play out in different contexts. The authors are admirably positive. They do
        not drag us through the myriad disasters that resulted when library and information science
        did not understand the potential contributions of digital technology and the equally
        unfortunate disasters that resulted when technologists ignored a century of work on
        information organization.
However, I will sound a cautionary note about what might
        go wrong if you do not understand the principles laid out in this book. First, for computer
        scientists and engineers: Major system-building efforts foundered due to a lack of insight
        into the principles of information organization. I will describe an early one, whose
        protagonists, good or bad, right or wrong, are all equal now.
Although not a computer scientist or computer engineer, Vannevar Bush had as much influence on the field as anyone through his work on shaping
        government support for research after the Second World War and his 1945
            Atlantic essay "As We May Think". Discussed in Chapter 2 [and Chapter 5], this essay describes a hypothetical machine called the Memex that would enable
        information retrieval through a complex "associative memory" that supports
        links much like those found in the World Wide Web today. Although Bush's design was based on
        microfilm and optical scanning rather than silicon, his vision has inspired countless
        researchers to this day.
Less well known are Bush's classified efforts from the 1930s through
        early 1950s to build machines for the military and information agencies with Memex
        capabilities. Meticulously detailed by historian Colin Burke in the book 
        Information and Secrecy: Vannevar Bush, Ultra, and the other Memex, 
        these projects consumed massive funding, occupied many brilliant MIT scientists for years, and
        produced nothing useful. A working machine was finally produced, but Bush never consulted
        with library science scholars who understood information organization from decades of work
        and made naïve assumptions about how information could be organized for
            retrieval—the extraordinarily expensive machine was not usable in
        the real world.
Computer scientists interested in information should
        adopt a broad perspective, and this book is a place to begin. Several fields of computer
        science garner attention today, such as machine learning, data mining, information
        visualization, and design. Those centered on information, which is most directly affected by
        Moore's law, are likely to have the greatest impact. 
The library and information science side of the bridge was also severely
        disrupted. Pride in a century of disciplinary accomplishment led to complacency and inertia.
        When silicon could no longer be avoided, there was not enough time to react gracefully.
        Major library schools closed. Today there are schools of information and a range of
            "library and information science" schools, some more forward-looking than
        others. Curriculum change has been relatively ad
            hoc, shaped by local personnel and context. Consider Information to be a
        large new volcanic cone pushing up in the midst of other peaks. No consistent approach has
        emerged to navigate the range. This book provides bridges where before there were slippery
        trails.
What can you do by virtue of reading and studying this
        book? Most importantly, perhaps, you can avoid confusion—when reading
        something or talking with someone from a different discipline, when asked a question in a
        job interview or by a colleague with a different background. Knowing that differences in
        terminology and abstractions are possible, you can ask questions and home quickly in on
        understanding. I have written elsewhere that through my career, such confusions frequently
        arose when I interacted with people in diverse disciplines, such as management information
        systems, software engineering, human factors, and so on. Because there was no book like this
        to clarify, it took me years to comprehend the source of many communication problems.
Beyond that, this book provides a foundation and
        framework for organizing and thinking about your experiences. This is a textbook, pointing
        to areas for research, providing ways of looking at new developments, and revealing to the
        perceptive reader yet unexplored territory in the spaces between disciplines. This is a book
        to read and put on the bookshelf—or in a folder in your digital
            reader—to reread in a few years' time.
Jonathan Grudin, 17 December 2012











Preface
Robert J. Glushko

In our daily lives, organizing is a common personal and group activity
        that we often do without thinking much about it. Organizing is also a fundamental issue in
        library and information science, computer science, systems analysis, informatics, law,
        economics, and business. But even though researchers and practitioners in these disciplines
        think about organizing all the time, they have only limited agreement in how they approach
        problems of organizing and what they seek as their solutions.
This book analyzes these different contexts and disciplines to propose a
        discipline of organizing that applies to all of them. Whether you are organizing physical
        resources like printed books or museum paintings, or digital resources like web pages, MP3s,
        or computational services implemented in software, you are creating an Organizing System—an intentionally arranged collection of
            resources and the interactions they support.
The transdisciplinary concept of Organizing System lets us see that
        resource selection, organizing, interaction design, and maintenance take place in every one
        of them. We can also identify many design principles and methods that apply broadly when we
        describe resources, create resource categories, and classify resources by assigning them to
        categories. A vocabulary for discussing common organizing challenges and issues that might
        be otherwise obscured by narrow disciplinary perspectives helps us understand existing
        organizing systems better while also suggesting how to invent new ones by making different
        design choices. 
Motivation
This book began as the lecture notes from a graduate course on
            Information Organization and Retrieval I have taught since 2005 at
        the University of California, Berkeley. My goal was to teach these traditionally distinct
        subjects in a more integrated way. The former is the focus of library and information
        science, while the latter is core to computer science and informatics, and their
        conventional textbooks and topics are widely divergent. But while these academic disciplines
        are divided, in the "real world" information organization and retrieval are increasingly
        intermixed and converging.
We needed a book that could bridge—or better yet,
            synthesize—the two disciplines of library science and computer
        science. We believe that their intellectual intersection is the study of organizing, and in
        particular, the analysis and design of Organizing Systems.
Collaboration
A book motivated by the prospect of multidisciplinary synthesis implies a
        multidisciplinary collaboration to create it. The principal authors of this book are mostly
        professors or former professors at different universities whose backgrounds include computer
        science and software engineering, library science, digital humanities, and cognitive
        science. Many of the other authors are former graduate students currently working in major
        web firms, web start-ups, consulting organizations, academic and government research labs,
        and law firms. This diverse set of authors with different backgrounds and aspirations gives
        this book a broad and contemporary perspective that would be impossible for a single author
        to achieve.
Disciplinary Customization
Multidisciplinary collaboration poses its own challenges. How can a book
        satisfy the need for breadth, to represent all the disciplines that contribute to it,
        without compromising the need for depth, to treat each contributing discipline in a
        substantive way? Our design solution was to write a core text and to move disciplinary and
        domain-specific content into nearly six hundred supplemental endnotes tagged by discipline.
        This book design allows the book to emphasize the concepts that bridge the different
        organizing disciplines while enabling it to satisfy the additional topical needs of
        different academic programs.
Ebooks
We have thought since the beginning of this project that this
        book should not just be a conventional printed text. A printed book is an intellectual
        snapshot that is already dated in many respects the day it is published. In addition, the
        pedagogical goal of this book is made more difficult by the relentless pace of technology
        innovation in our information-intensive economy and culture. 
The Second Editions
In the past year we have substantially
        enhanced the book with new content and with new interactive capabilities that take advantage
        of digital delivery on ebook readers or in web browsers. These include:
        New and revised text contentExpanded discussions of active resources and information architecture. 
                    A thoroughly revised Chapter 9, "Interactions with Resources".Stop and Think exercises
Nineteen "Stop and Think" exercises are included 
                        in the academic editions, including the Core Concepts Edition.
Self-review quizzes
The "Key Points" section at
                        the end of Chapters 2-10 can toggle to become a self-review quiz function in
                        which each Key Point is the answer to a Question.
Case studies
Organizing system case studies have been
                        moved into Chapter 11, "Case Studies" and 
                        
                        eleven
                        new contributions have been added.
Additional graphics
Fifty-seven new graphic images, 
                        including photographs, screenshots, graphs, and charts are included
                        in this edition.
Enhanced captions
An interpretive caption is provided for
                         all photographs.
Improved Accessibility
Primary descriptive text is included for
                        all figures and photographs to facilitate use by readers with visual
                        disabilities. We have attempted to employ best known practices and have
                        consulted with leading accessibility experts. We welcome feedback.
More navigation linksTo facilitate reading and discovery of related material,
                    more navigation links (see, see also, etc.) 
                    are found in the text, endnotes, and sidebars.Core bibliographyThe bibliography presents only those entries that are 
                    considered core, including those mentioned in the surface text
                    but never actually cited, per se.
                    For example, Moby Dick 
                    is mentioned, it is now cited, as are others like it.Glossary back links
Many of the definitions in the glossary
                        are transclusions from
                        the text of the chapters, in which case they offer a link back to the
                        section from which they were sourced.
Most of the acronyms listed in the
                        glossary are transclusions that link back to their first mention. These
                        links typically take the form of a phrase, followed by an acronym, such as
                            
National Association of Professional
                                Organizers (NAPO). 


We continue to review content for lapses in spelling and grammar, as well
        as making improvements to the hypertext experience. However, we do not maintain a detailed
        list of such minor changes to the content.
Audience Customization - A Family of EBooks
In the summer of 2014 the book had been adopted by about
        20 schools for a variety of courses in information organization, content management,
        collection development, and information architecture. The  new editions build on this
        successful foundation to make the book even more effective and engaging as an academic text
        or as a provocative reading for people who want to be more self-aware and effective about
        how they organize the resources they deal with in their personal and professional
        lives.
These manifestations of The Discipline of Organizing contain
            substantial new and revised content about the active resources that make up the
                "Internet of Things," and how the field of information architecture can
            be viewed as a subset of the discipline of organizing. One chapter was completely
            revised (9) and one is completely new (11). Many new user-contributed case studies make
            it easier for readers to recognize and apply lessons to their own organizing problems.
            Both editions take great advantage of the digital medium with nearly 60 new pictures and
            illustrations, enhanced hypertext for cross-references and external citations, and
            interactive study guides to test on key points.O'Reilly Media is the publisher of the following editions in September 2014:Professional Edition 
The Professional edition remains the definitive source for advanced
                    students and practitioners who require comprehensive and pinpoint connections to
                    the classic and contemporary literature about organizing. It contains almost 600
                    endnotes, tagged as connecting to one or more of the eleven contributing
                    disciplines, to provide the links into and bridges between them. The
                    Professional Edition includes additional case studies, comprehensive
                    bibliography, glossary, and index.
Core Concepts Edition
The Core Concepts edition is an abridged version that is simpler to read
                    because it does not tempt the reader with this deep scholarly web of endnotes.
                    Instead, it seeks to reinforce the concepts and design patterns with numerous
                        "Stop and Think" exercises, and omits some of the theoretical
                    nuance of the Professional edition to put more emphasis on concrete examples.
                    Designed as a textbook for undergraduates, it omits all of the endnotes but
                    includes additional "Stop and Think" exercises designed to increase
                    engagement and comprehension. In this edition, the bibliography lists core
                    entries across the spectrum of disciplines, including titles from many of this
                    book's authors and contributors.
You are currently reading the
                        Core Concepts Edition.


DisciplineOfOrganizing.org Website
We have created a living repository of resources to enhance
        the use of the book among the instructors and students using it in university courses.
            "A living repository for collaboration" is not just a cliché here. 
        We have been experimenting with this idea for over a year with a companion website, 
        http://DisciplineOfOrganizing.org.
    
The multi-disciplinary, multi-campus collaboration needed
        to create this book has grown broader over time to include discussion and sharing of lecture
        notes, course assignments, and exam questions. In addition, student-created content such as
        course-related blog posts and commentary has also been shared between schools using the
        book. The site also contains a blog by the book's authors and instructors. New versions of
        ebooks will be distributed through the site as they become available.
Robert J. Glushko, 16 August 2014











Abstract
We organize things, we organize information, we organize information about things, and we
                        organize information about information. But even though
                                "organizing" is a fundamental and ubiquitous challenge,
                        when we compare these activities their contrasts are more apparent than
                        their commonalities. We propose to unify many perspectives about organizing
                        with the concept of an Organizing System, defined as an intentionally
                        arranged collection of resources and the interactions they support. Every
                        Organizing System involves a collection of resources, a choice of properties
                        or principles used to describe and arrange resources, and ways of supporting
                        interactions with resources. By comparing and contrasting how these
                        activities take place in different contexts and domains, we can identify
                        patterns of organizing. We can create a discipline of organizing in a
                        disciplined way.--Robert J. Glushko











Chapter 1. Foundations for Organizing SystemsRobert J. Glushko
1.1. The Discipline of Organizing
To organize is to create capabilities by
                    intentionally imposing order and structure.

Organizing is such a common 
            activity that we
                often do it without thinking much about it. We organize the shoes in our
            closet, the books on our book shelves, the spices in our kitchen, and the folders into
            which we file information for tax and other purposes. Quite a few of us have jobs that
            involve specific types of organizing tasks. We might even have been explicitly trained
            to perform them by following specialized disciplinary practices. We might learn to do
            these tasks very well, but even then we often do not reflect on the similarity of the
            organizing tasks we do and those done by others, or on the similarity of those we do at
            work and those we do at home. We take for granted and as givens the concepts and methods
            used in the Organizing System we work with most often.
The goal of this book is to help readers become more
            self-conscious about what it means to organize things—whether
            they are physical resources like printed books and shoes or digital resources like web
            pages and MP3 files—and about the principles by which the
            resources are organized. In particular, this book introduces the concept of an
                Organizing System:
an intentionally arranged collection of resources and the interactions
                    they support. The book analyzes the design decisions that go
            into any systematic organization of resources and the design patterns for the
            interactions that make use of the resources. This book is the product of countless
            discussions with students and faculty colleagues at Berkeley and
            other schools, and we are collaboratively developing a new discipline that unifies four
            types of organizing, as follows:
We organize physical things. Each of
            us organizes many kinds of things in our
                lives—our books on bookshelves; printed financial records in
            folders and filing cabinets; clothes in dressers and closets; cooking and eating
            utensils in kitchen drawers and cabinets. Public libraries organize printed books,
            periodicals, maps, CDs, DVDs, and maybe some old record albums. Research libraries also
            organize rare manuscripts, pamphlets, musical scores, and many other kinds of printed
            information. Museums organize paintings, sculptures, and other artifacts of cultural,
            historical, or scientific value. Stores and suppliers organize their goods for sale to
            consumers and to each other.
We organize information about physical
                things. Each of us organizes information about things: when we inventory
            the contents of our house for insurance purposes, when we sell our
                unwanted stuff on eBay, or when we rate a restaurant on
                Yelp. Library card catalogs, and their online
            replacements, tell us what books a library's collection contains and where to find them.
                Sensors and RFID tags track the movement
            of goods—even library books—through supply
            chains, and the movement (or lack of movement) of cars on
            highways.
We organize digital things. Each of
            us organizes personal digital information—email, documents,
            ebooks, MP3 and video files, appointments, contacts—on our
            computers, smartphone, ebook readers, or in "the cloud,"
—through information services that use Internet protocols. Large
            research libraries organize digital journals and books, computer programs, government
            and scientific datasets, databases, and many other kinds of digital information.
            Companies organize their digital business records and customer information in enterprise
            applications, content repositories, and databases. Hospitals and medical clinics
            maintain and exchange electronic health records and digital X-rays and scans.
We organize information about digital
                things. Digital library catalogs, web portals, and aggregation websites
            organize links to other digital resources. Web search engines use content and link
            analysis along with relevance ratings, to organize the billions of web pages competing
            for our attention. Web-based services, data feeds and other information resources can be
            combined as mash-ups or choreographed to carry out information-intensive business
            models.
Let us take a closer look at these four different
            types or contexts of organizing. Are there clear, systematic, and useful distinctions
            between them? We contrasted "organizing
                things" with "organizing
                    information." At first glance it might seem that organizing
            physical things like books, compact discs, machine parts, or cooking utensils has an
            entirely different character than organizing intangible digital things. We often arrange
            physical things according to their shapes, sizes, material of manufacture, or other
            visible properties: for example, we might arrange our shirts in the clothes closet by
            style and color, and we might organize our music collection by separating the old vinyl
            albums from the CDs. We might arrange books on bookshelves by their sizes, putting all
            the big, heavy picture books on the bottom shelf. Organization for clothes and
            information artifacts in tangible formats that is based on visible properties does not
            seem much like how you store and organize digital books on your Kindle or arrange
            digital music on your music player. Arranging, storing, and accessing X-rays printed on
            film might appear to have little in common with these activities when the X-rays are in
            digital form.
It is hardly surprising that organizing things and
            organizing information sometimes do not differ much when information is represented in a
            tangible way. The era of ubiquitous digital information of the last decade or two is
            just a blip in time compared with the more than ten thousand years of human experience
            with information carved in stone, etched in clay, or printed with ink on papyrus,
            parchment, or paper. These tangible information artifacts have deeply embedded the
            notion of information as a physical thing in culture, language, and methods of
            information design and organization. This perspective toward tangible information
            artifacts is especially prominent in rare book collections where books are revered as
            physical objects with a focus on their distinctive binding, calligraphy, and
            typesetting.
Nevertheless, at other times there are substantial
            differences in how we organize things and how we organize information, even when the
            latter is in physical form. We more often organize our "information
                    things" according to what they are about rather than on the
            basis of their visible properties. At home we sort our CDs by artist or genre; we keep
            cookbooks separate from travel books, and fiction books apart from reference books.
            Libraries employ subject-based classification schemes that have a few hundred thousand
            distinct categories.
Likewise, there are times when we pay little attention
            to the visible properties of tangible things when we organize them and instead arrange
            them according to functional or task properties. We keep screwdrivers, pliers, a hammer,
            a saw, a drill, and a level in a toolbox or together on a workbench, even though they
            have few visual properties in common. We are not organizing them because of what we see
            about them, but because of what we know about to use them. The task-based organization
            of the tools has some similarity to the subject-based organization of the
            library.
We also contrasted "organizing things" with "organizing information about
                things." This difference seems clear if we consider the traditional library
            card catalog, whose printed cards describe and specify the location of books on library
            shelves. When the things and the information about them are both in physical format, it
            is easy to see that the former is a primary resource and the latter a surrogate or
            associated resource that describes or relates to it.
What Is Information?
Geoff Nunberg has eloquently explained in Farewell to the Information
                        Age that information is "a collection of notions,
                    rather than a single coherent concept." Most of its hundreds of
                definitions treat it as an idea that swirls around equally hard-to-define terms like
                    "data,"
"knowledge," and "communication." Moreover, these
                intellectual and ideological perspectives on information coexist with more mundane
                uses of the term, as when we ask a station agent: "Can
                    you give me some information about the train schedule?"
An abstract view of
                information as an intangible thing is the intellectual foundation for both modern
                information science and the information economy and society. Nevertheless, the
                abstract view of information often conflicts with the much older idea that
                information is a tangible thing that naturally arose when information was
                inextricably encoded in material formats. We often blur the sense of
                    "information as content" with the sense of "information as
                    container," and we too easily treat the number of stored bits on a
                computer or in "the cloud" as a measure of information content or
                value.
Michael Buckland's oft-cited essay Information as Thing argues against 
                the notion that information is inherently intangible 
                and instead defines it more broadly and provocatively based on function. 
                This makes the objects in museum or personal collections into information-as-thing resources 
                because they can be learned from and serve as evidence.
The implications of this question can be seen in various domains. Take criminal
                law: in its 2014-15 term, the US Supreme Court will rule on whether a fish can be a
                document. The case involves a commercial fisherman in Florida who was found with
                fish in his catch below the legal size limit. An inspector ordered him to hand the
                fish over to the authorities; when he dumped them overboard instead, he was charged
                with violating the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a law drafted in response to high-profile
                white-collar crimes such as the Enron scandal. The law imposes harsh penalties for
                destroying "any record, document, or tangible object" to impede a
                federal investigation. While the fisherman has argued that the law should only apply
                to documents, the government contends that because the fish were "tangible
                    objects" whose presence on the boat served as the only documentation of
                the allegedly illegal fishing, there is no practical difference between a fish and a
                document in this case.

When it comes to "organizing information about digital things" the contrast is
            much less clear. When you search for a book using a search engine, first you get the
            catalog description of the book, and if you are lucky the book itself is just a click
            away. When the things and the information about them are both digital, the contrast we
            posed is not as sharp as when one or both of them is in a physical format. And while we
            used X-rays—on film or in digital
            format—as examples of things we might organize, when a physician
            studies an X-ray, is it not being used as information about the subject of the X-ray,
            namely, the patient?
These differences and
            relationships between "physical things" and "digital things"
            have long been discussed and debated by philosophers, linguists, psychologists, and
            others (See the sidebar, What Is Information?).
The distinctions among
            organizing physical things, organizing digital things, or organizing information about
            physical or digital things are challenging to describe because many of the words we
            might use are as overloaded with multiple meanings as "information" itself.
            For example, some people use the term "document" to refer only to
            traditional physical forms, while others use it more abstractly to refer to any
            self-contained unit of information, independent of its instantiation in physical or
            digital form. The most abstract definition, presented in What is a
                        Document? is when Buckland provocatively asserts that an
                antelope is both "information as thing" and also a
                    "document" when it is in a zoo, even though it is just an animal
                when it is running wild on the plains of Africa. Similar definitional
            variation occurs with "author" or "creator."
If we allow the concept of information to be anything we can
                study—to be "anything that
                informs"—the concept becomes unbounded. Our goal in
            this book is to bridge the intellectual gulf that separates the many disciplines that
            share the goal of organizing but differ in what they organize. This requires us to focus
            on situations where information exists because of intentional acts to create or
            organize.
Many of the foundational topics for a discipline of
            organizing have traditionally been presented from the perspective of the public sector
            library and taught as "library and information science." These include
            bibliographic description, classification, naming, authority control, and information
            standards. We need to update and extend the coverage of these topics to include more
            private sector and non-bibliographic contexts, multimedia and social-media, and new
            information-intensive applications and service systems enabled by mobile, pervasive, and
            scientific computing. In so doing we can re-frame the foundational concepts to make them
            equally compatible with the disciplinary perspectives of informatics, data and process
            modeling, and document engineering.
We also need to take a transdisciplinary view that
            lets us emphasize what the different disciplines have in common rather than what
            distinguishes them. Resource selection, organizing, interaction design, and maintenance
            are taught in every discipline, but these concepts go by different names. A vocabulary
            for discussing common organizing challenges and issues that might be otherwise obscured
            by narrow disciplinary perspectives helps us understand existing systems of organizing
            better while also suggesting how to invent new ones by making different design choices. 
The Discipline of Organizing
A discipline is an integrated field of
                        study in which there is some level of agreement about the issues and
                        problems that deserve study, how they are interrelated, how they should be
                        studied, and how findings or theories about the issues and problems should
                        be evaluated.
Organizing is a
                fundamental issue in many disciplines, most notably library and information science,
                computer science, systems analysis, informatics, law, economics, and business.
                However, these disciplines have only limited agreement in how they approach problems
                of organizing and what they seek as their solutions. For example, library and
                information science has traditionally studied organizing from a public sector
                bibliographic perspective, paying careful attention to user requirements for access
                and preservation, and offering prescriptive methods and solutions. In contrast, computer science and informatics tend to study organizing
                in the context of information-intensive business applications with a focus on
                process efficiency, system architecture, and implementation.
This book presents a more abstract framework for issues and
                problems of organizing that emphasizes the common concepts and goals of the
                disciplines that study them.  A framework is a
                        set of concepts that provide the basic structure for understanding
                        a domain, enabling a common vocabulary for different explanatory
                        theories.
Our framework proposes that every system of
                    organization involves a collection of resources, and we can treat physical
                    things, digital things, and information about such things as resources. 
Every system of organization involves a choice of
                    properties or principles used to describe and arrange the resources, and ways of
                    supporting interactions with the resources. By comparing and
                contrasting how these activities take place in different contexts and domains, we
                can identify patterns of organizing and see that Organizing Systems often follow a
                common life cycle. We can create a discipline of organizing in a disciplined
                way.













1.2. The "Organizing System" Concept
We propose to unify many perspectives about organizing and information with
            the concept of an Organizing
                System, an intentionally arranged collection of resources and
                the interactions they support. This definition brings together several
            essential ideas that we will briefly introduce in this chapter and then develop in
            detail in subsequent chapters.

Figure 1.1 depicts a conceptual
            model of an Organizing System that shows intentionally arranged resources, interactions
            (distinguished by different types of arrows), and the human and computational agents
            interacting with the resources in different contexts.
Figure 1.1. An Organizing System.
An organizing system is a
                            collection of resources arranged in ways that enable people or
                            computational agents to interact with them.

An Organizing
            System is an abstract characterization of how some collection of resources is described
            and arranged to enable human or computational agents to interact with the resources. The
            Organizing System is an architectural and conceptual view that is distinct from the
            physical arrangement of resources that might embody it, and also distinct from the
            person, enterprise, or institution that implements and operates it. These distinctions
            are sometimes hard to maintain in ordinary language; for example, we might describe some
            set of resource descriptions, organizing principles, and supported interactions as a
                "library" Organizing System. However, we also need at times to refer to
            a "library" as the institution in which this Organizing System operates,
            and of course the idea of a "library" as a physical facility is deeply
            engrained in language and culture.
Our concept of the Organizing System
                was in part inspired by and generalizes to physical and web-based resource domains
                the concepts proposed in 2000 for bibliographic domains by Elaine Svenonius, in 
                The Intellectual Foundation of
                    Information Organization. 
                She recognized that the traditional
                    information organization
                activities of bibliographic description and cataloging were complemented, and partly
                compensated for, by automated text processing and indexing that were usually treated
                as part of a separate discipline of information retrieval.

Svenonius proposed that decisions about organizing information and decisions
                about retrieving information were inherently linked by a tradeoff principle and thus
                needed to be viewed as an interconnected system: "The effectiveness
                        of a system for accessing information is a direct function of the
                        intelligence put into organizing it" (p.ix).
We celebrate and build upon her insights by beginning each of
                the sub-parts of §1.3 with a quote from
                her book.
A systems view of information organization and information retrieval
            captures and provides structure for the inherent tradeoffs obscured by the silos of
            traditional disciplinary and category perspectives: the more effort put into organizing
            information, the more effectively it can be retrieved, and the more effort put into
            retrieving information, the less it needs to be organized first. A systems view no
            longer contrasts information organization as a human activity and information retrieval
            as a machine activity, or information organization as a topic for library and
            information science and information retrieval as one for computer science. Instead, we
            readily see that computers now assist people in organizing and that people contribute
            much of the information used by computers to enable retrieval.
1.2.1. The Concept of "Resource"
Resource has an ordinary
                    sense of anything of value that can support goal-oriented
                        activity. This definition means that a resource can be a
                        physical thing, a non-physical thing, information about
                    physical things, information about non-physical things, or anything you want to
                    organize. Other words that aim for this broad scope are entity, object, item, and instance. Document is often used for an information
                    resource in either digital or physical format; artifact refers to resources created by
                    people, and asset for resources
                    with economic value.

Resource has specialized meaning in Internet
                    architecture. It is conventional to describe web pages, images, videos, and so
                    on as resources, and the
                    protocol for accessing them, 
                    Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), 
                    uses the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI).
Treating as a primary resource
anything that can be identified is an important
                    generalization of the concept because it enables web-based services, data feeds,
                    objects with RFID tags, sensors or
                    other smart devices, or
                        computational agents to be part of Organizing
                    Systems.
Instead of emphasizing the differences between
                tangible and intangible resources, we consider it essential to determine whether the
                tangible resource has information content—whether it needs to
                be treated as being "about" or representing some other resource rather
                than being treated as a thing in itself. Whether a book is printed or digital, we
                focus on its information content, what it is about; its tangible properties become
                secondary. In contrast, the hangars in our closet and the measuring cups in our
                kitchen are not about anything more than their obvious utilitarian features, which
                makes their tangible properties most important. (Of course, there is no sharp
                boundary here; you can buy "fashion hangers" that make a style
                statement, and the old measuring cup could be a family memento because it belonged
                to Grandma).
Many of the resources in Organizing Systems
                    are description resources
or surrogate
                        resources that describe the primary
                        resources; library catalog entries or the list of results in web
                    search engines are familiar examples. In museums, information about the
                production, discovery, or history of ownership of a resource can be more important
                than the resource; a few shards of pottery are of little value without these
                    associated information resources. Similarly, business or scientific
                data often cannot be understood or analyzed without additional information about the
                manner in which they were collected.
Concert Ticket
A concert ticket is a vehicle for conveying a package of assertions 
                    about an event, so it is a 
                    description resource, 
                    like a card in a library card catalog. 
                    A concert ticket is also a 
                    resource 
                    in its own right, with intrinsic value; it can be bought and sold, 
                    sometimes for a greater price than its 
                    resource description 
                    specifies. 
                    A ticket is a license to use a seat in a
                    venue for a specified purpose at a specified time; 
                    after the event, the ticket loses its intrinsic value,
                    but might acquire extrinsic value as an artifact in a collection like this one. 


(Photo by Murray Maloney.)



Resources that describe,
                    or are associated with other resources are sometimes called metadata. However, when we
                look more broadly at Organizing Systems, it is often difficult to distinguish
                between the resource being described and any description of it or associated with
                it. One challenge is that when descriptions are embedded in resources, as metadata
                often is—in the title page of a book, the masthead of a
                newspaper, or  the source of web pages—deciding which
                resources are primary is often arbitrary. A second challenge is that what serves as
                metadata for one person or process can function as a primary resource or data for
                another one. Rather than being an inherent distinction, the difference between
                primary and associated resources is often just a decision about which resource we
                are focusing on in some situation. An animal specimen in a natural history museum
                might be a primary resource
                for museum visitors and scientists interested in anatomy, but information about
                where the specimen was collected is the primary resource for scientists interested in ecology or
                migration.
Organizing Systems can refer to people as
                    resources, and we often use that term to avoid specifying the gender or specific
                    role of an employee or worker, as in the management concept of the "human
                        resources" department in a workplace. The shift from a
                manufacturing to an information and services economy in the last few decades has
                resulted in greater emphasis on intellectual resources represented in skills and
                knowledge rather than on the natural resources of production materials and physical
                    goods. It is important to consider the capabilities and motivations of the
                people who create and participate in Organizing Systems. We might discuss how human
                resources are selected, organized, and managed over time just as we might discuss
                these activities with respect to library resources. Nevertheless, these topics are
                much more appropriate for texts on human resources management and industrial
                organization, so we will not consider them much further in this book.

1.2.2. The Concept of "Collection"
A collection is a group of resources that
                        have been selected for some purpose. Similar terms are
                    set (mathematics), aggregation (data modeling), dataset (science and business), and corpus (linguistics and literary analysis).
We prefer collection because it has fewer specialized meanings.
                    Collection is typically used to describe personal sets of
                physical resources (my stamp or record album collection) as well as digital ones (my
                collection of digital music). A collection can contain identifiers for resources
                along with or instead of the resources themselves, which enables a resource to be
                part of more than one collection, like songs in playlists.
A collection itself is also a resource. Like other resources, a collection can have description
                resources associated with it. An index is a description resource that
                        contains information about the locations and frequencies of terms
                        in a document collection
                        to enable it to be searched efficiently.
Because collections are an important and frequently used kind of resource, it is important to distinguish
                them as a separate concept. In particular, the concept of collection has deep roots in
                    libraries, museums and other institutions that select, assemble, arrange, and maintain resources.
                Organizing Systems in these domains can often be described as collections of
                collections that are variously organized according to resource type, author,
                creator, or collector of the resources in the collection, or any number of other
                principles or properties.

1.2.3. The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement"
Intentional
                            arrangement
emphasizes explicit or implicit acts of organization by people, or by
                        computational processes acting as proxies for, or as implementations of,
                        human intentionality.
Intentional
                        arrangement excludes naturally occurring patterns created by
                    physical, geological, biological or genetic processes.
There is information in the piles of
                    debris left after a tornado or tsunami and the strata of the Grand Canyon. But
                    they are not Organizing Systems because the patterns of arrangement were created
                    by deterministic natural forces rather than by an identifiable agent following
                    one or more organizing principles selected by a human agent.
Similarly, some patterns
                of resource arrangements are illusions or perceptions that require a particular
                vantage point. The best examples are patterns of stars as they appear to an observer
                on Earth. The three precisely aligned stars that are often described as
                    "Orion's belt" are several hundred light years from Earth and also
                from each other. The perceived arrangement of the stars is undeniable, but the stars
                are not aligned in the universe. On the other hand, astronomical constellations like
                Orion are intentional
                    arrangements imposed on the perceived locations of the stars, and
                these perceived locations and arrangements form an Organizing System that is deeply
                embedded in human culture and in the important practice of navigation, especially
                over the seas.
Not an Intentional Arrangement


The composition and arrangement of the rock layers
                                    ("strata") in the Grand Canyon in the Southwest
                                United States have been studied extensively by geologists. The
                                composition of rock suggests the environment in which it was formed,
                                and the absolute and relative arrangement of the rock layers reveals
                                the timing of important geological events.
(Photo by B. Rosen. 
                                Creative Commons CC BY-ND 2.0 license.)



Self-organizing systems can change
                        their internal structure or their function in response to feedback or
                        changed circumstances. Requiring arrangement to be
                intentional also excludes those systems from our definition of Organizing System.
                These self-organizing systems have been used in physics, chemistry, and mathematics
                to explain phase transitions and equilibrium states. Self-organizing is also used to
                describe numerous natural and man-made phenomena such as climate, communication
                networks, business and biological ecosystems, traffic and habitation patterns,
                neural networks, and online communities. All of these systems involve collections of
                resources that are very large and open, with complex interactions among the
                resources. The resource arrangements that emerge cannot always be interpreted as the
                result of intentional or deterministic principles and instead are more often
                described in probabilistic or statistical terms. Adam Smith's "invisible hand" in economic markets and Charles Darwin's "natural selection" in evolutionary biology are classic
                examples of self-organizing mechanisms. The web as a whole, with its more than a trillion unique pages, is in many ways
                    self-organizing, but at its core it follows clear organizing principles (See the
                    sidebar, The Web as an Organizing System).
The Web as an Organizing System
Today's web barely
                        resembles the system for distributing scientific and technical reports it
                        was designed to be when physicist and computer scientist Tim Berners-Lee devised it in 1990 at the 
                    European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) 
                    lab near Geneva. However, 
                    as an Organizing System 
                    the web still follows the principles that Berners-Lee defined at its creation. 
                    These include standard data formats and interaction protocols; no need for
                        centralized control of page creation or linking; remote access over the
                        network from anywhere; and the ability to run on a large variety of
                        computers and operating systems. This architecture makes the web open and
                        extensible, but gives it no built-in mechanisms for authority or
                        trust.
Because the web works without any central
                        authority or authorship control, any person or organization can add to it.
                        As a result, even though the web as a whole does not exhibit the centralized
                        intentional arrangement of resources that characterizes many Organizing
                        Systems, we can view it as consisting of millions of organizing systems that
                        each embody a separate intentional arrangement of web pages. In addition, we
                        most often interact with the web indirectly by using a search engine, which
                        meets the definition of Organizing System because its indexing and retrieval
                        algorithms are principled.
A great many Organizing Systems are implemented as collections
                    of web pages. Some of these collections are created on the web as new pages,
                    some are created by transforming existing collections of resources, and some
                    combine new and existing resources.

Taken together, the intentional arrangements
                of resources in an Organizing System are the result of decisions about what is
                organized, why it is organized, how much it is organized, when it is organized, and
                how or by whom it is organized (each of these will be
                    discussed in greater detail in §1.3, "Design Decisions in Organizing Systems"). An
                Organizing System is defined by the composite impact of the choices made on these
                design dimensions. Because these questions are interrelated their answers come
                together in an integrated way to define an Organizing System.
1.2.3.1. The Concept of "Organizing Principle"
The arrangements of
                        resources in an Organizing System follow or embody one or more organizing
                        principles that enable the Organizing System to achieve its
                        purposes.
Organizing principles are directives
                            for the design or arrangement of a collection of resources that are ideally expressed in a
                            way that does not assume any particular implementation or
                            realization.
Organizing Spices By Cuisine


An alternative to organizing spices
                                    alphabetically is to organize them according to cuisines or
                                    flavor profiles, which can be defined in terms of ingredients
                                    and spices that tend to be used together. Patricia Glushko
                                    organizes her spices into three groups: Indian (includes cayenne
                                    pepper, coriander, cumin, turmeric), Mediterranean / Middle
                                    Eastern (includes basil, dill, oregano,papr(Photo by R.
                                    Glushko.)ika, thyme), and
                                    seeds. Each group of spices is in a separate large container,
                                    which makes it convenient when cooking.
(Photo by R. Glushko.)



When we
                        organize a bookshelf, home office,
                            kitchen, or the MP3 files on our music
                            player, the resources themselves might be new and modern but
                        many of the principles that govern their organization are those that have
                        influenced the design of Organizing Systems for thousands of years.
                    For example, we organize resources using easily perceived properties to make
                    them easy to locate, we group together resources that we often use together, and
                    we make resources that we use often more accessible than those we use
                    infrequently. Very general and abstract
                        organizing principles are sometimes called design heuristics (e.g.,
                            "make things easier to find").
More specific and commonly used organizing
                        principles include alphabetical ordering
(arranging
                            resources according to their names) and chronological ordering
(arranging
                            resources according to the date of their creation or other important
                            event in the lifetime of the resource).
Some organizing principles sort resources
                        into pre-defined categories and other organizing principles rely on novel
                        combinations of resource properties to create new
                    categories.
Expressing organizing principles in a way that
                        separates design and implementation aligns well with the three-tier
                        architecture familiar to software architects and designers: user interface
                        (implementation of interactions), business logic (intentional arrangement),
                        and data (resources).
(See the sidebar, The Three Tiers of Organizing Systems.)
The logical separation between
                        organizing principles and their implementation is easy to see with digital
                        resources. In a digital library it does not matter to a user if the
                    resources are stored locally or retrieved over a network. The essence of a
                    library Organizing System emerges from the resources that it organizes and the
                    interactions with the resources that it enables. Users typically care a lot
                    about the interactions they can perform, like the kinds of searching and sorting
                    allowed by the online library catalog. How the resources and interactions are
                    implemented are typically of little concern. Similarly, many email applications
                    have migrated to the web and the system of filters and folders that manage email
                    messages is no longer implemented in a local network or on personal computers,
                    but most people neither notice nor care.
The separation of organizing principles and their
                        implementation is harder to recognize in an Organizing System that only
                        contains physical resources, such as your
                            kitchen or clothes closet,
                        where you appear to have unmediated interactions with resources rather than
                        accessing them through some kind of user interface or "presentation
                            tier" that supports the principles specified in the "middle
                            tier" and realized in the "storage tier."
                    Nevertheless, you can see these different tiers in the organization of
                        spices in a kitchen. Different kitchens might all
                    embody an alphabetic order
                    organizing principle for arranging a collection of spices, but the exact
                    locations and arrangement of the spices in any particular kitchen depends on the
                    configuration of shelves and drawers, whether a spice rack or rotating tray is
                    used, and other storage-tier considerations. Similarly, spices could be
                    logically organized by cuisine, with Indian spices separated from Mexican
                    spices, but this organizing principle does not imply anything about where they
                    can be found in the kitchen.
The Three Tiers of Organizing Systems
Software architects and
                            designers agree that it is desirable to build applications that separate
                            the storage of data, the business logic or functions that use the data,
                            and the user interface or presentation components through which users or
                            other applications interact with the data. This modular
                        architecture allows each of the three tiers to be upgraded or reimplemented
                        independently to satisfy changed requirements or to take advantage of new
                        technologies. An analogous distinction is that between an algorithm as a
                        logical description of a method for solving a computational problem and its
                        implementation in a particular programming language like 
                        Java or 
                        Python.
These architectural distinctions are equally important to
                        librarians and information scientists. Our new way of looking at Organizing Systems emphasizes the importance
                            of identifying the desired interactions with resources, determining
                            which organizing principles can enable the interactions, and then
                            deciding how to store and manage the resources according to those
                            principles. Applying architectural thinking to Organizing
                        Systems makes it easier to compare and contrast existing ones and design new
                        ones. Separating the organizing principles in the "middle tier"
                        from their implications in the "data" and
                            "presentation" tiers often makes it possible to implement
                        the same logical Organizing System in different environments that support
                        the same or equivalent interactions with the resources. For example, a new
                        requirement to support searching through a library catalog on a smart phone
                        would only affect the presentation tier.

Figure 1.2, "Presentation, Logic and Storage Tiers."
                    illustrates the separation of the presentation, logic, and storage tiers for
                    four different types of library Organizing Systems and for Google Books. No two
                    of them are the same in every tier. Note how a library that uses inventory
                    robots to manage the storage of books does not reveal this in its higher
                    tiers.
Figure 1.2. Presentation, Logic and Storage Tiers.

It is highly desirable when
                                    the design and implementation of an organizing system separates
                                    the storage of the resources from the logic of their arrangement
                                    and the methods for interacting with them. This three-tier
                                    architect is familiar to designers of computerized organizing
                                    systems but it is also useful to think about organizing systems
                                    in this way even when it involves physical
                                resources.


Because tangible things can only be in one place at a time, 
                    many Organizing Systems, like those in the modern library 
                    with online catalogs and physical collections,
                    resolve this constraint by creating digital proxies or surrogates 
                    to organize their tangible resources, 
                    or create parallel digital resources (e.g., digitized books). 
                    
                    The implications for arranging, finding, using and reusing resources
                    in any Organizing System directly reflect the mix of these two embodiments of
                    information; in this way we can think of the modern library as a digital
                    Organizing System that primarily relies on digital resources to organize a
                    mixture of physical and digital ones.
The Organizing
                        System for a small collection can sometimes use only the minimal or default
                        organizing principle of collocation—putting
                            all the resources in the same container, on the same
                                shelf, or in the same email in-box.
                    If you do not cook much and have only a small number of spices in your kitchen,
                    you do not need to alphabetize them because it is easy to find the one you
                        want.
Separation Of Organizing Principle From Implementation


Whether spices are
                                        organized alphabetically by their names, by cuisines, by
                                        season, by frequency of use, or any other principle, this
                                        decision is logically distinct from the physical arrangement
                                        of the spices. There are many types of spice racks, shelves,
                                        circular "lazy susans," and other devices
                                        designed for arranging spices.
(Photo collage created by R. Glushko 
                                    from various web catalogs.)



Some
                        organization emerges implicitly through a frequency of
                            use principle. In your kitchen or clothes closet,
                        the resources you use most often migrate to the front because that is the
                        easiest place to return them after using them. But as a collection
                    grows in size, the time to arrange, locate, and retrieve a particular resource
                    becomes more important. The collection must be explicitly organized to make
                    these interactions efficient, and the organization must be preserved after the
                    interaction takes place; i.e., resources are put back in the place they were
                    found. As a result, most Organizing Systems
                        employ organizing principles that make use of properties of the resources
                        being organized (e.g., name, color, shape, date of creation, semantic or
                        biological category), and multiple properties are often used
                        simultaneously. For example, in your kitchen you might arrange your
                        cooking pots and pans by size and
                        shape so you can nest them and store them compactly, but you
                    might also arrange things by cuisine or style and separate your grilling
                    equipment from the wok and other items you use for making Chinese food.
Unlike those for physical resources, the most
                    useful organizing properties for information resources are those based on their
                    content and meaning, and these are not directly apparent when you look at a book
                    or document. Significant intellectual effort or computation is necessary to
                    reveal these properties when assigning subject terms or creating an
                    index.
The most effective organizing systems for information
                    resources often are based on properties that emerge from analyzing the
                    collection as a whole. For example, the relevance of documents to a search query
                    is higher when they contain a higher than average frequency of the query terms
                    compared to other documents in the collection, or when they are linked to
                    relevant documents. Likewise, algorithms for classifying email messages
                    continuously recalculate the probability that words like
                        "beneficiary" or "Viagra" indicate whether a
                    message is "spam" or "not spam" in the collection of
                    messages processed.

1.2.3.2. The Concept of "Agent"
Many disciplines have specialized job
                    titles to distinguish among the people who organize
                        resources (for example: cataloger, archivist, indexer, curator, collections manager...).
                    We use the more general
                        word, agent, for any entity capable of
                            autonomous and intentional organizing effort, because it
                        treats organizing work done by people and organizing work done by computers
                        as having common goals, despite obvious differences in
                    methods.
We can analyze agents in Organizing Systems to understand how human and
                    computational efforts to arrange resources complement and substitute for each
                    other. We can determine the economic, social, and technological contexts in
                    which each type of agent can best be employed. We can determine how the
                    Organizing System allocates effort and costs among its creators, users,
                    maintainers and other stakeholders.
A group of people can be an organizing agent, as when a group of people come
                        together in a service club or standards body technical committee in which
                        the members of the group subordinate their own individual agency to achieve
                        a collective good.
We also use the term agent when we discuss interactions with
                        Organizing Systems. The entities that most typically access the
                    contents of libraries, museums, or other collections of physical resources are
                        human agents—that is, people. In
                    other Organizing Systems, such as business information systems or data
                    repositories, interactions with resources are carried out by computational
                    processes, robotic devices, or other entities that act autonomously on behalf of
                    a person or group.
In some Organizing Systems, the resources themselves are capable
                        of initiating interactions with other resources or with external agents.
                    This is most obvious with human or other living resources
                    and is also the case with resources augmented with sensory,
                        computational or communication capabilities that enable them to
                    obtain information from their environment and then do something useful with it.
                    You are probably familiar with RFID
                            tags, which enable the precise identification and
                    location of physical resources as they move through supply chains and stores,
                    and with "smart" devices like Nest thermostats that learn how to
                    program themselves.


1.2.4. The Concept of "Interactions"
An interaction is an action, function, service, or capability that makes use of the resources in a
                        collection or the collection as a whole. The interaction of
                            access is
                    fundamental in any collection of resources, but many Organizing Systems provide
                    additional functions to make access more efficient and to support additional interactions with the accessed resources.
                    For example, libraries and similar Organizing Systems implement catalogs to
                    enable interactions for finding a known resource, identifying any resource in the
                    collection, and discriminating or selecting among similar
                    resources.
The Global Digital Zoo
Consider the Organizing System of a
                        zoo, which typically organizes the physical resources
                        that we usually call animals according to principles of
                        biological taxonomy or common habitat.
The most important interaction supported by a modern
                        zoo is enabling visitors to observe the
                        behavior of animals in environments resembling their natural
                        environments.
If all the animals are "stored" in a single
                    location and we prefer unmediated interaction with them, the physical
                    requirements for housing and showcasing the animals and our own mobility limits
                    how big a zoo can be. However, this is simply a conventional manner of storing
                    the animals and supporting interactions with them.
Some zoo websites have webcams to enable people to observe
                    animals without needing to travel to the zoo. Now imagine a "global
                        digital zoo" in which all of the world's zoos are treated as a single
                    digital collection. Instead of physical co-presence to enable viewing of the
                    animals, "telepresence," using high-quality video connections to
                    zoo exhibits, would enable us to view animals in the San Diego, Berlin,
                    Singapore, Toronto, and other great zoos, from our living rooms, almost as if we
                    were there. Instead of a walk from exhibit to exhibit, a tour of a digital zoo
                    would be implemented as a list of video connections, and different tours
                    implemented as different sequences of cameras. Sensors in each animal habitat
                    could detect activity and image recognition software could classify the
                    behavior, enabling us to search the combined zoo for particular combinations of
                    active animals to view (e.g., a mother and infant chimpanzee). No zoo would need
                    to change how it "stores" the animals to enable these new
                    principles of organization and our new kinds of interactions with them.

Some of the interactions with resources
                    in an Organizing System are inherently determined by the characteristics of the
                    resource. Because many museum resources are unique or extremely
                valuable, visitors are allowed to view them but
                cannot borrow them, in contrast with most of the
                resources in libraries. 
                A library might have multiple printed copies of 
                Moby Dick 
                but can never lend more of them than it
                possesses. After a printed book is checked out from the library, there are many
                types of interactions that might take place—reading, translating,
                    summarizing, annotating, and so on—but these are not
                directly supported by the library Organizing System and are invisible to it. For
                works not in the public domain, copyright law gives the copyright holder the right
                to prevent some uses, but at the same time 
"fair use" and similar copyright doctrines enable certain limited uses
                even for copyrighted works.
Digital resources enable a greater range of
                    interactions than physical ones. Any number of people or processes can
                request a weather forecast from a web-based weather service because the forecast is
                not used up by the request and the marginal cost of allowing another access is
                nearly zero. Furthermore, with digital resources many new kinds of interactions can
                be enabled through application software, web services, or application program interfaces (APIs) in the Organizing System. In particular,
                translation, summarization, annotation, and keyword suggestion are highly useful
                services that are commonly supported by web search engines and other web
                applications. Similarly, an Organizing System with digital resources can implement a
                    "keep everything up to date" interaction that automatically pushes
                current content to your browser or computing device.
But just as technology can enable interactions, it can prevent or
                constrain them. If your collection of digital resources (ebooks or music, for
                example) is not stored on your own computer or device, a continuous Internet
                connection is a requirement for access. In addition, access control policies and
                    digital rights management (DRM) technology can
                limit the devices that can access the collection and prevent copying, annotation and
                other actions that might otherwise be enabled by the 
 fair use doctrine.
Just as with organizing principles, it is useful
                to think of interactions in an abstract or logical way that does not assume an
                implementation because it can encourage innovative designs for Organizing Systems.
                    (See the sidebar, The Global Digital Zoo.)












1.3. Design Decisions in Organizing Systems
A set of resources is transformed by an
                Organizing System when the resources are described or arranged to enable
                interactions with them. Explicitly or by default, this requires many
            interdependent decisions about the identities of resources; their names, descriptions
            and other properties; the classes, relations, structures and collections in which they
            participate; and the people or technologies interacting with them.
One important contribution of the idea of the
                Organizing System is that it moves beyond the debate about the definitions of
                    "things,"
"documents," and "information," with the unifying concept
                of "resource" while
                acknowledging that "what is being organized" is
                just one of the questions or dimensions that need to be considered. These
            decisions are deeply intertwined, but it is easier to introduce them as if they were
            independent. 
We introduce five groups of design decisions, itemizing the most
            important dimensions in each group:


What is being organized? What is the scope and scale of the
                        domain? What is the mixture of physical things, digital
                        things, and information about things in the Organizing System? Is the
                        Organizing System being designed to create a new resource collection,
                        catalog an existing and closed resource collection, or manage a collection
                        in which resources are continually added or deleted? Are the resources
                        unique, or are they interchangeable members of a class? Do they follow a
                        predictable "life cycle" with a "useful
                        life"? 
                    (§1.3.2)

Why
                            is it being organized? What interactions or services will be
                        supported, and for whom? Are the uses and users known or unknown? Are the
                        users primarily people or computational processes? Does the Organizing
                        System need to satisfy personal, social, or institutional goals?
                        (§1.3.3)

How
                            much is it being organized? What is the extent, granularity,
                        or explicitness of description, classification, or relational structure
                        being imposed? Is this description and structure imposed in a centralized or
                        top-down manner or in a distributed or bottom-up manner? What organizing
                        principles guide the organization? Are all resources organized to the same
                        degree, or is the organization sparse and non-uniform?
                        (§1.3.4)

When is it being organized? Is the organization imposed on
                        resources when they are created, when they become part of the collection,
                        when interactions occur with them, just in case, just in time, all the time?
                        Is any of this organizing mandated by law or shaped by industry practices or
                        cultural tradition?
                        (§1.3.5)

How
                            or by whom, or by what computational processes, is it being
                            organized? Is the organization being performed by
                        individuals, by informal groups, by formal groups, by professionals, by
                        automated methods? Are the organizers also the users? Are there rules or
                        roles that govern the organizing activities of different individuals or
                        groups?
                        (§1.3.6)


How well these decisions coalesce in an Organizing System depends on the
            requirements and goals of its human and computational users, and on understanding the
            constraints and tradeoffs that any set of requirements and goals impose. How and when
            these constraints and tradeoffs are handled can depend on the legal, business, and
            technological contexts in which the Organizing System is designed and deployed; on the
            relationship between the designers and users of the Organizing System (who may be the
            same people or different ones); on the economic or emotional or societal purpose of the
            Organizing System; and on numerous other design, deployment, and use factors.
1.3.1. Organizing Systems in a "Design Space"
Classifying Organizing Systems according
                    to the kind of resources they contain is the most obvious and traditional
                    approach. We can also classify Organizing Systems by their dominant
                purposes, by their intended user community, or other ways. No single fixed set of categories is sufficient by itself to capture the
                    commonalities and contrasts between Organizing Systems.
We can augment the categorical view of Organizing Systems by
                thinking of them as existing in a multi-faceted or multi-dimensional design space in
                which we can consider many types of collections at the same time.
1.3.1.1. Conventional Ways to Classify Organizing Systems
We distinguish law libraries from software
                    libraries, knowledge management systems from data warehouses, and personal
                        stamp collections from coin
                        collections primarily because they contain different kinds of
                    resources. Similarly, we distinguish document collections
                    by resource type, contrasting narrative document types like novels and
                    biographies with transactional ones like catalogs and invoices, with hybrid
                    forms like textbooks and encyclopedias in between.
But there are three other conventional ways to
                    classify Organizing Systems. A second way to distinguish Organizing Systems is
                    by their dominant purposes or the priority of their common purposes. For
                    example, libraries, museums, and archives are often classified as "memory
                        institutions" to emphasize their primary emphasis on resource
                    preservation. In contrast, "management information systems" or
                        "business systems" are categories that include the great
                    variety of software applications that implement the Organizing Systems needed to
                    carry out day-to-day business operations.
A third conventional approach for classifying
                    Organizing Systems is according to the nature or size of the intended user
                    community. This size or scope can range from personal Organizing Systems created
                    and used by a single person; to "community-based" Organizing
                    Systems used by informal social groups; to those used by the employees,
                    customers or stakeholders of an enterprise; to those used by an entire community
                    or nation; to global ones potentially used by anyone in the world.
A fourth way to distinguish Organizing Systems
                    is according to the technology used to implement them. Large businesses use
                    different software applications for inventory management, records management,
                    content management, knowledge management, customer relationship management, data
                    warehousing and business intelligence, e-mail archiving, and other subcategories
                    of collections.
We can become overwhelmed by this
                    proliferation of ways to classify collections of resources, especially when the
                    classification is not clearly based on just one of these many approaches. For
                    example, the list of "library types" used by the
                        International Federation of Library Associations to
                    organize its activities includes resource-based distinctions (e.g., art
                    libraries, law libraries, social science libraries), purpose-based ones (e.g.,
                    academic and research libraries), and user-based distinctions (e.g., public
                    libraries, school libraries, libraries serving persons with print
                        disabilities).

1.3.1.2. A Multifaceted or Multidimensional View
A type of resource and its conventional Organizing System are often
                    the focal point of a discipline. Category labels such as library, museum, zoo,
                    and data repository have core meanings and many associated experiences and
                    practices. Specialized concepts and vocabularies often evolve to describe these.
                    The richness that follows from this complex social and cultural construction
                    makes it difficult to define category boundaries precisely. Consider Borgman's
                    commonly accepted definition of libraries as institutions that "select,
                        collect, organize, conserve, preserve, and provide access to information on
                        behalf of a community of users." Many Organizing Systems are
                    described as libraries, although they differ from traditional libraries in
                    important respects. See the sidebar, What Is a Library?
What Is a Library?
Most birds fly, but not all of them do. What
                        characteristics are most important to us when we classify something as a
                        bird? What characteristics are most important when we think of something as
                        a library?
We might
                            treat circulation,
borrowing and returning the same item, as one of
                            the interactions with resources that defines a library. In that
                        case, an institution that lends items in its collection with the hope that
                        the borrowers return something else that is better hardly seems like a
                        library. But if the resources are the seeds of heirloom plants and the
                        borrowers are expected to return seeds from the plants they grew from the
                        borrowed seeds, perhaps "seed library" is an apt name for this
                        novel Organizing System. Similarly, even though the resources in its
                        collection are encyclopedia articles rather than living species, the
                        Wikipedia open-source encyclopedia resembles the Seed Library by encouraging
                        its users to "return" articles that are improvements of the
                        current ones.
The photo-sharing website Flickr
                        functions for most of its users as a personal photo archiving site. Flickr's
                        billions of user-uploaded photos and the choice of many users to share them
                        publicly transform it into a searchable shared collection, and many people
                        also think of Flickr as a photo library. But Flickr lacks the authoritative
                        description and standard classification that typify a library.
A similar categorization challenge arises with the
                            Google Books digitization project.
                            Google co-founder Sergei Brin characterized its ambitious project to put tens of millions of
                        books from research libraries online as "a library to last
                            forever." But the Google Books project
                        was widely criticized as not being true to library principles.

We can always create new categories by stretching the
                    conventional definitions of "library" or other familiar Organizing
                    Systems and adding modifiers, as when Flickr is
                    described as a web-based photo-sharing library. But whenever we define an
                    Organizing System with respect to a familiar category, the typical or mainstream
                    instances and characteristics of that category that are deeply embedded in
                    language and culture are reinforced, and those that are atypical are
                    marginalized. In the Flickr case, this means we
                    suggest features that are not there (like authoritative classification) or omit
                    the features that are distinctive (like tagging by users).
More generally, a categorical view of Organizing Systems makes
                    it matter greatly which category is used to anchor definitions or comparisons.
                    The Google Books project makes out-of-print and
                    scholarly works vastly more accessible, but framing it in library terms to
                    suggest it is a public good upsets many people with a more traditional sense of
                    what the library category implies. We can readily identify design choices in
                        Google Books that are more characteristic of the
                    Organizing Systems in business domains, and the project might have been
                    perceived more favorably had it been described as an online bookstore that
                    offered many beneficial services for free.
Seed Library


The Hudson Valley Seed Library, whose home
                                    page is shown here, is one of many that have been organized to
                                    encourage the preservation of plant varieties by having its
                                    members plant rare, heirloom, or locally important varieties of
                                    seeds. Seed libraries are typically private rather than public
                                    institutions that are funded by membership fees from the people
                                    who "check out" and grow the seeds.
(Screenshot by R.
                                        Glushko, February 2013.)



A complementary perspective on Organizing Systems is that they
                    exist in a multi-faceted or multi-dimensional design space. This framework for describing and comparing
                    Organizing Systems overcomes some of the biases and conservatism built into
                    familiar categories like libraries, museums, and archives, while enabling us to
                    describe them as design patterns that embody characteristic configurations of
                    design choices. We can then use these patterns to support multi-disciplinary
                    work that cuts across categories and applies knowledge about familiar domains to
                    unfamiliar ones. A dimensional perspective makes it easier to translate between
                    category- and discipline-specific vocabularies so that people from different
                    disciplines can have mutually intelligible discussions about their organizing
                    activities. They might realize that they have much in common, and they might be
                    working on similar or even the same problems.
A faceted or dimensional perspective acknowledges the
                        diversity of instances of collection types and provides a generative,
                        forward-looking framework for describing hybrid types that do not cleanly
                        fit into the familiar categories.
Even though it might differ from the conventional categories on some
                        dimensions, an Organizing System can be designed and understood by its
                            family resemblance on the
                        basis of its similarities on other dimensions to a familiar type of resource
                        collection.
Thinking of Organizing Systems as points or regions in a
                    design space makes it easier to invent new or more specialized types of
                    collections and their associated interactions. If we think metaphorically of
                    this design space as a map of Organizing Systems, the empty regions or
                        "white space" between the densely-populated centers of the
                    traditional categories represent Organizing Systems that do not yet exist. We
                    can consider the properties of an Organizing System that could occupy that white
                    space and analyze the technology, process, or policy innovations that might be
                    required to let us build it there. We can reason by analogy to identify and apply the principles used in one organizing system to understand or design others. For example: Google
                        Books is to Library as ? is to Natural History
                        Museum.
Stop And Think: Organizing System Analogy Tests
Wild Animal Park is to Natural History Museum as A City is to... ?
The animals are free-willed and self-organizing in a wild animal park, and
                        natural history museums often replicate their organization by species and
                        habitat. When these principles are applied to people in cities, perhaps the
                        closest analogy to the natural history museum is a cemetery, where people
                        are organized by family, religion, social and economic class, and year of
                        death.
Wild Animal Park is to Animal Theme Park as A City is to... ?
Animals in animal theme parks are performers who exhibit trained behavior,
                        like dolphins leaping through flaming hoops. Applying the same organizing
                        principles and patterns to cities might yield Colonial
                            Williamsburg, a "historical theme park" where people
                        dress in 18th-century costumes and discuss the American Revolution as
                        current news.

But even though digital technology is radically subdividing the
                    traditional categories of collections by supporting new kinds of specialized
                    information-intensive applications, an opposite and somewhat paradoxical trend
                    has emerged. Jennifer Trant argues that the common challenges of "going digital,"
                    and the architectural and functional constraints imposed by web implementations,
                    are causing some convergence in the operation of libraries, museums, and
                    archives. Similarly, Anne Gilliland suggests that giving every physical resource in a collection a
                    digital surrogate or proxy that is searchable and viewable in a web browser is
                        "erasing the distinctions between custodians of information and
                        custodians of things."
Taken together, these two trends have one profound
                    implication. If the traditional categories for thinking about collections are
                    splintering in some respects and converging in others, they are less useful in
                    describing innovative collections and their associated interactions. Thus, we
                    need a new concept—the Organizing
                        System—that

applies comprehensively and consistently to
                            collections of resources of any type

reuses familiar categories where they are appropriate,
                            but does not impose them on new types of collections and services where
                            they do not fit well;

makes it easier to trace the connections between
                            specific requirements or constraints and particular functions or
                            implementation choices.



1.3.2. What Is Being Organized?
"What is difficult to identify is difficult to
                            describe and therefore difficult to organize."--(Svenonius 2000, p. 13)
Before we can begin to organize any resource we
                    often need to identify it. It might seem straightforward to devise an
                Organizing System around tangible resources, but we must be
                careful not to assume what a resource is. In different situations, the same
                    "thing" can be treated as a unique item, one of many equivalent
                members of a broad category, or a component of an item rather than as an item on its
                own. For example, in a museum collection, a handmade, carved chess
                    piece might be a separately identified item, identified as part of a
                    set of carved chess pieces, or treated as one of the 33
                unidentified components of an item identified as a chess set (including the board).
                When merchants assign a stock-keeping unit (SKU) to identify the
                things they sell, that SKU can be associated with a unique item,
                sets of items treated as equivalent for inventory or billing purposes, or intangible
                things like warranties.
You probably do not have explicit labels on the
                cabinets and drawers in your kitchen or clothes closet, but department stores and
                warehouses have signs in the aisles and on the shelves because
                of the larger number of things a store needs to organize. As a collection of
                resources grows, it often becomes necessary to identify each one explicitly; to
                create surrogates like bibliographic records or descriptions that distinguish one
                resource from another; and to create additional organizational mechanisms like
                    shelf labels, store directories,
                    library card catalogs and indexes that
                facilitate understanding the collection and locating the resources it contains.
                These organizational mechanisms often suggest or parallel the organizing principles
                used to organize the collection itself.
Organization mechanisms like aisle signs,
                store directories and library card catalogs are embedded in the same physical
                environment as the resources being organized. But when these mechanisms or
                surrogates are digitized, the new capabilities that they enable create design
                challenges. This is because a digital Organizing
                    System can be designed and operated according to more abstract and less
                    constraining principles than an Organizing System that only contains physical
                    resources. A single physical resource can only be in one
                    place at a time, and interactions with it are constrained
                by its size, location, and other
                properties. In contrast, digital copies and surrogates can exist in many places at
                once and enable searching, sorting, and other interactions with an efficiency and
                scale impossible for tangible things.
When the resources being organized
                    consist of information content, deciding on the unit of organization is
                    challenging because it might be necessary to look beyond physical properties and
                    consider conceptual or intellectual equivalence. A high school student
                told to study Shakespeare's play Macbeth might treat any
                printed copy or web version as equivalent, and might even try to outwit the teacher
                by watching a film adaptation of the play. To the student, all versions of
                    Macbeth seem to be the same resource, but librarians and
                scholars make much finer distinctions.
Archival Organizing Systems implement a distinctive answer to the
                question of what is being organized. Archives are a type of collection that focuses
                on resources created by a particular person, organization, or institution, often
                during a particular time period. This means that archives have themselves been
                previously organized as a result of the processes that created and used them.
                    The "original
                        order" of the resources in an archive embodies the implicit or
                    explicit Organizing System of the person or entity that created the documents;
                    it is treated as an essential part of the meaning of the collection. As a
                    result, the unit of organization for archival collections is the fonds—the original
                        arrangement or grouping, preserving any hierarchy of
                            boxes, folders,
                            envelopes, and individual
                            documents—and
                    thus they are not re-organized according to other (perhaps more systematic)
                    classifications.
Photo Collection Kept in Original Order
The William Ashburner collection of historical photos from an 1867-1869
                    surveying expedition in the Western United States is kept in the
                        University of California, Berkeley's Bancroft
                        Library in the order in which Ashburner, a member of the survey
                    party, had arranged it when he donated it to the library decades later. The
                    arrangement roughly follows a chronological and geographical progression, with
                    some photos obviously out of order and some whose locations cannot be
                    determined.

Some Organizing Systems contain legal,
                    business or scientific documents or data that are the digital descendants of
                    paper reports or records of transactions or observations. These
                Organizing Systems might need to deal with legacy information that still exists in
                paper form or in electronic formats like image scans that are different from the
                structural digital format in which more recent information is likely to be
                preserved. When legacy conversions from printed information artifacts are complete
                or unnecessary, an Organizing System no longer deals with any of the traditional
                    tangible artifacts. Digital libraries dispense with these
                artifacts, replacing them with the capability to print copies if needed. This
                enables libraries of digital documents or data collections to be vastly larger and
                more accessible across space and time than any library that stores tangible,
                physical items could ever be.
An increasing number of Organizing Systems handle resources that
                are born digital. Ideally, digital texts can be encoded with explicit markup that
                captures structural boundaries and content distinctions, which can be used to
                facilitate organization, retrieval, or both. In practice the digital representations
                of texts are often just image scans that do not support much processing or
                interaction. A similar situation exists for the digital representations of music,
                photographs, videos, and other non-text content like sensor data, where the digital
                formats are structurally and semantically opaque.

1.3.3. Why Is It Being Organized?
"The central purpose of systems for organizing
                            information [is] bringing like things together and differentiating among
                            them."--(Svenonius 2000 p. xi)
Almost by definition, the
                    essential purpose of any Organizing System is to describe or arrange resources
                    so they can be located and accessed later. The organizing principles needed to
                    achieve this goal depend on the types of resources or domains being organized,
                    and in the personal, social, or institutional setting in which organization
                    takes place.
"Bringing like things together" is
                    an informal organizing principle for many Organizing Systems. But there will
                    likely be a number of more precise requirements or constraints to
                    satisfy.
Organizing Systems involving
                        physical resources are more likely to emphasize
                    aesthetic or emotional goals than those for information resources, which more
                    often are dominated by functional goals like efficiency of
                        storage and access. This contrast
                is often magnified by the tendency for major library and museum collections to be
                housed in buildings designed as architectural monuments that over time become
                symbols of national or cultural identity.
The fine distinctions between Organizing Systems that have many
                characteristics in common reflect subtle differences in the priority of their shared
                goals. For example, many Organizing Systems create collections and enable
                interactions with the goals of supporting scientific research, public education, and
                entertainment. We can contrast zoos, animal theme parks, and wild animal preserves
                in terms of the absolute and relative importance of these three goals with respect
                to animal resources.
When individuals manage their papers,
                    books, documents, record
                    albums, compact discs,
                DVDs, and other information resources, their Organizing Systems
                vary greatly. This is in part because the content of the resources being organized
                becomes a consideration. Furthermore, many of the Organizing Systems used by
                individuals are implemented by web applications, and this makes them more accessible
                because their resources can be accessed from anywhere with a web browser.
Put another way, an information resource inherently has more
                potential uses than resources like forks or frying
                    pans, so it is not surprising that the Organizing Systems in offices
                are even more diverse than those in kitchens.
When the scale of the collection or the number of
                intended users increases, not everyone is likely to share the same goals and design
                preferences for the Organizing System. If you share a kitchen with housemates, you
                might have to negotiate and compromise on some of the decisions about how the
                kitchen is organized so you can all get along. In more formal or institutional
                Organizing Systems conflicts between stakeholders can be much more severe, and the
                organizing principles might even be specified in commercial contracts or governed by
                law. For example, Bowker and Star note that physicians view the creation of patient
                records as central to diagnosis and treatment, insurance companies think of them as
                evidence needed for payment and reimbursement, and researchers think of them as
                primary data. Not surprisingly, policy making and regulations about patient records
                are highly contentious.
Almost as soon as libraries were invented over two thousand years
                ago, the earliest librarians saw the need to develop systematic methods for
                arranging and inventorying their collections. The invention of mechanized printing in the fifteenth century, which
                radically increased the number of books and
                    periodicals, forced libraries to begin progressively more
                refined efforts to state the functional requirements for their Organizing Systems
                and to be explicit about how they met those requirements.
Today, the Organizing Systems in a large
                academic research library must also support many functions and services other than
                those that directly support search and location of resources in their collections.
                In these respects, the Organizing Systems in non-profit libraries have much in
                common with those in corporate information repositories and business applications.
                    (See the sidebar, Library {and, or, vs.} Business Organizing Systems.)
Library {and, or, vs.} Business Organizing Systems
Any information-driven enterprise must have
                    processes and technologies in place that govern information creation or capture
                    and then manage its entire life cycle. In addition to the Organizing Systems
                    that manage and provide access to their collections, large libraries also need
                    business Organizing Systems to support acquisition, billing, interlibrary loan
                    record routing and systems, licenses of digital resources from publishers,
                    course material websites, and the library's own web presence. Commercial firms
                    need processes for transacting with customers or other firms to carry out
                    business operations, to support research and innovation, and to develop business
                    strategy and tactics in compliance with laws and regulations for accounting,
                    taxes, human resources, data retention, and so on. In large firms these
                    functions are so highly specialized and complex that the different types of
                    Organizing Systems have distinct names: 
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Enterprise Content Management (ECM), Enterprise Data Management (EDM)
Supply Chain Management (SCM), Records Management,
                        Customer Relationship Management
                                (CRM),
                        Business Intelligence (BI), Knowledge Management (KM), and so on. And even though
                    the most important functions in the Organizing Systems of large enterprises are
                    those that manage the information resources needed for its business operation,
                    these firms might also need to maintain corporate libraries and archives.

Preserving documents in their physical or
                original form is the primary purpose of archives and similar
                Organizing Systems that contain culturally, historically, or economically
                significant documents that have value as long-term evidence.
                Preservation is also an important motivation for the Organizing Systems of
                information- and knowledge-intensive firms. Businesses and governmental agencies are
                usually required by law to keep records of financial transactions, decision-making,
                personnel matters, and other information essential to business continuity,
                compliance with regulations and legal procedures, and transparency. As with
                archives, it is sometimes critical that these business knowledge or records
                management systems can retrieve the original documents, although digital copies that
                can be authenticated are increasingly being accepted as legally equivalent.
Chapter 7, "Classification: Assigning Resources to Categories" more fully explains the different
                purposes for Organizing Systems, the organizing principles they embody, and the
                methods for assigning resources to categories.

1.3.4. How Much Is It Being Organized?
"It is a general bibliographic truth that not
                            all documents should be accorded the same degree of
                            organization."--(Svenonius 2000, p. 24)
Not all resources should be accorded the
                    same degree of organization. In this section we will briefly unpack
                this notion of degree of organization into three important and related dimensions:
                the amount of description or organization applied to each resource, the amount of
                organization of resources into classes or categories, and the overall extent to
                which interactions in and between organizing systems are shaped by resource
                description and arrangement. Chapter 4 and Chapter 6, more
                    thoroughly address these questions about the nature and extent of description in
                    Organizing Systems.
Stop and Think: How Much Organization of Medical Information?
Go to Google or
                            Bing and search
                    for "drug resistance" or "cancer screening"—notice
                    that these exact phrases are contained in the title of nearly every document or
                    web page in the results. Do the same search in the Pubmed document
                    collection maintained by the US National Library of Medicine;
                    notice that relatively few of the results contain these exact phrases. What does
                    this suggest about the nature of resource description for Google and Bing
                    compared with Pubmed?

Not all resources in a collection require the same
                degree of description for the simple reason we discussed in
                        §1.3.3, "Why Is It Being Organized?": Organizing Systems exist for
                different purposes and to support different kinds of interactions or functions. Let
                us contrast two ends of the "degree of description" continuum. Many
                people use "current events awareness" or "news feed"
                applications that select news stories whose titles or abstracts contain one or more
                keywords (Google Alert is a good example). This exact match algorithm is easy to
                implement, but its all-or-none and one-item-at-a-time comparison misses any stories
                that use synonyms of the keyword, that are written in languages different from that
                of the keyword, or that are otherwise relevant but do not contain the exact keyword
                in the limited part of the document that is scanned. However, users with current
                events awareness goals do not need to see every news story about some event, and
                this limited amount of description for each story and the simple method of comparing
                descriptions are sufficient.
On the other hand, this simple Organizing System
                is inadequate for the purpose of comprehensive retrieval of all documents that
                relate to some concept, event, or problem. This is a critical task for scholars,
                scientists, inventors, physicians, attorneys and similar professionals who might
                need to discover every relevant document in some domain. Instead, this type of
                Organizing System needs rich bibliographic and semantic description of each
                document, most likely assigned by professional catalogers, and probably using terms
                from a controlled
                    vocabulary to enforce consistency in what descriptions mean.
Similarly, different merchants or firms might make different decisions
                about the extent or granularity of description when they assign
                SKUs because of differences in suppliers, targeted customers, or
                other business strategies. If you take your car to the repair shop because
                windshield wiper fluid is leaking, you might be dismayed to find that the broken
                    rubber seal that is causing the leak cannot be ordered
                separately and you have to pay to replace the "wiper fluid
                        reservoir" for which the seal is a minor but vital part.
                Likewise, when two business applications try to exchange and merge customer
                information, integration problems will arise if one describes a customer as a single
                    "NAME" component while the other separates the customer's name into
                    "TITLE,"
"FIRSTNAME," and "LASTNAME."
Even when faced with the
                    same collection of resources, people differ in how much organization they prefer
                    or how much disorganization they can tolerate. A classic study by Tom Malone of how people organize their office workspaces and desks contrasted
                the strategies and methods of "filers" and "pilers."
                Filers maintain clean desktops and systematically organize their papers into
                categories, while pilers have messy work areas and make few attempts at
                organization. This contrast has analogues in other Organizing Systems and we can
                easily imagine what happens if a "neat freak" and "slob"
                become roommates.
Different preferences and
                    disagreements between stakeholders in an Organizing System about how much
                    organization is necessary often result because of the implications for who does
                    the work and who gets the benefits, especially the economic ones.
                Physicians prefer narrative descriptions and broad classification systems because
                they make it easier to create patient notes. In contrast, insurance companies and
                researchers want fine-grained "form-filling" descriptions and detailed
                classifications that would make the physician's work more onerous.
The cost-effectiveness of creating systematic
                    and comprehensive descriptions of the resources in an information collection has
                    been debated for nearly two centuries, beginning in 1841 when Sir Anthony
                    Panizzi proposed rules for cataloguing the British Library. In the last half
                    century, the scope of the debate grew to consider the role of computer-generated
                    resource descriptions.
An alternative and
                    complement to man-made descriptions for each resource are computer-generated
                    indexes of their textual contents. These indexes typically assign
                weights to the terms according to calculations that consider the frequency and
                distribution of the terms in both individual documents and in the collection as a
                whole to create a description of what the documents are about. These descriptions of
                the documents in the collection are more consistent than those created by human
                organizers. They allow for more complex query processing and comparison operations
                by the retrieval functions in the Organizing System. For example, query expansion
                mechanisms can automatically add synonyms and related terms to the
                search. Additionally, retrieved documents can be arranged by relevance, while
                    "citing" and "cited-by" links can be analyzed to find
                related relevant documents.
A second constraint on the degree of organization
                comes from the size of the collection within the scope of the Organizing System.
                    Organizing more resources requires more descriptions to
                    distinguish any particular resource from the rest, and more constraining
                    organizing principles. Similar resources need to be grouped or
                classified to emphasize the most important distinctions among the complete set of
                resources in the collection. A small neighborhood restaurant might have a short wine
                list with just ten wines, arranged in two categories for "red" and
                    "white" and described only by the wine's name and price. In
                contrast, a gourmet restaurant might have hundreds of wines in its wine list, which
                would subdivide its "red" and "white" high-level
                categories into subcategories for country, region of origin, and grape varietal. The
                description for each wine might in addition include a specific vineyard from which
                the grapes were sourced, the vintage year, ratings of the wine, and tasting
                notes.
At some point a collection grows so large
                    that it is not economically feasible for people to create bibliographic
                    descriptions or to classify each separate resource, unless there are so many
                    users of the collection that their aggregated effort is comparably large; this
                    is organizing by "crowdsourcing."
(See the sidebar on "Web 2.0" in §1.3.6). This leaves two
                approaches that can be done separately or in tandem. 
The simpler approach is to describe sets of resources or documents as
                            a set or group, which is especially sensible for archives with its
                            emphasis on the fonds
(see §1.3.2, "What Is Being Organized?").
                        

The second approach is to rely on automated and more general-purpose
                            organizing technologies that organize resources through computational
                            means. Search engines are familiar examples of computational organizing
                            technology, and §7.6, "Computational Classification" describes other common
                            techniques in machine learning, clustering, and discriminant analysis
                            that can be used to create a system of categories and to assign
                            resources to them.


Finally, we must acknowledge the ways in which information processing
                and telecommunications technologies have transformed and will continue to transform
                Organizing Systems in every sphere of economic and intellectual activity. A century
                ago, when the telegraph and telephone enabled rapid communication and business
                coordination across large distances, these new technologies enabled the creation of
                massive vertically integrated industrial firms. In the 1920s, the Ford Motor Company
                owned coal and iron mines, rubber plantations, railroads, and steel mills so it
                could manage every resource needed in automobile production and reduce the costs and
                uncertainties of finding suppliers, negotiating with them, and ensuring their
                contractual compliance. Adam's Smith's invisible hand of the market as an organizing
                mechanism had been replaced by the visible hand of hierarchical management to
                control what Ronald Coase in 1937 termed "transaction costs" in The Nature of the Firm.
But in recent decades a new set of information and computing
                technologies enabled by Moore's law—unlimited computing
                power, effectively free bandwidth, and the Internet—have
                turned Coase upside down, leading to entirely new forms of industrial organization
                made possible as transaction costs plummet. When computation and coordination costs
                drop dramatically, it becomes possible for small firms and networks of services
                (provided by people or by computational processes) to out-compete large corporations
                through more efficient use of information resources and services, and through more
                effective information exchange with suppliers and customers, much of it automated.
                    Herbert Simon, a pioneer in artificial
                    intelligence, decision making, and human-computer interaction, recognized the
                    similarities between the design of computing systems and human organizations and
                    developed principles and mechanisms that could apply to both.
Chapter 8, "The Forms of Resource Descriptions", focuses on the representation of
                resource descriptions, taking a more technological or implementation perspective.
                    Chapter 9, "Interactions with Resources", discusses how the nature and extent of descriptions
                determines the capabilities of the interactions that locate, compare, combine, or
                otherwise use resources in information-intensive domains.

1.3.5. When Is It Being Organized?
"Because bibliographic description, when
                            manually performed, is expensive, it seems likely that the
                                'pre' organizing of information will continue to shift
                            incrementally toward 'post'
                    organizing."--(Svenonius 2000, p. 194-195)
The Organizing System framework recasts the
                    traditional tradeoff between information organization and information retrieval
                    as the decision about when the organization is
                    imposed. We can contrast organization imposed on resources "on
                    the way in" when they are created or made part of a collection with
                    "on the way out" organization imposed when an interaction with
                resources takes place.
When an author writes a document, he or she gives it some internal
                organization via title, section headings, typographic conventions, page numbers, and
                other mechanisms that identify its parts and their significance or relationship to
                each other. The document could also have some external organization implied by the
                context of its publication, such as the name of its author and publisher, its web
                address if it is online or has a website, and citations or links to other documents
                or web pages.
Digital photos, videos, and documents are generally organized to
                some minimal degree when they are created because some descriptions, notably time
                and location, are assigned automatically to these types of resources by the
                technology used to create them. At a minimum, these descriptions include the
                resource's creation time, storage format, and chronologically ordered, auto-assigned
                filename (IMG00001.JPG, IMG00002.JPG,
                etc.), but often are much more detailed.
Digital resources created by automated
                    processes generally exhibit a high degree of organization and structure because
                    they are generated automatically in conformance with data or document
                    schemas. These schemas implement the business rules and information
                models for the orders, invoices, payments, and the numerous other types of document
                resources that are created and managed in business Organizing Systems.
Before a resource becomes part of a library collection, its
                author-created organization is often supplemented by additional information supplied
                by the publisher or other human intermediaries, such as an International 
                            Standard Book Number (ISBN) 
                or Library of Congress 
                    Call Number (LOC-CN) 
                or Library of Congress 
                    Subject Headings (LOC-SH).
            
In contrast, Google and other
                search engines apply massive computational power to analyze the contents and
                associated structures (like links between web pages) to impose organization on
                resources that have already been published or made available so that they can be
                retrieved in response to a user's query "on the way out." Google makes
                use of existing organization within and between information resources when it can,
                but its unparalleled technological capabilities and scale yield competitive
                advantage in imposing organization on information that was not previously organized
                digitally. Indeed, Geoff Nunberg criticized Google for ignoring or undervaluing the
                descriptive metadata and classifications previously assigned by people and replacing
                them with algorithmically assigned descriptors, many of which are incorrect or
                    inappropriate.
                One reaction to the poor quality of some computational
                    description has been the call for libraries to put their authoritative
                    bibliographic resources on the open web, which would enable reuse of reliable
                    information about books, authors, publishers, places, and subject
                    classifications. This "linked data" movement is slowly
                gathering momentum.

Google makes almost all of its money through personalized ad
                placement, so much of the selection and ranking of search results is determined
                    "on the way out" in the fraction of a second after the user submits
                a query by using information about the user's search history and current context. Of
                course, this "on the way out" organization is only possible because of
                the more generic organization that Google's algorithms have imposed, but that only
                reminds us of how much the traditional distinction between information organization
                and information
                    retrieval is no longer defensible.
In many Organizing Systems the nature and
                    extent of organization changes over time as the resources governed by the
                    Organizing System are used. The arrangement of resources in a kitchen
                or office changes incrementally as frequently used things end
                up in the front of the pantry, drawer, shelf or filing cabinet or on the top of a
                pile of papers. Printed books or documents acquire margin notes, underlining, turned
                down pages or coffee cup stains that differentiate the most important or most
                frequently used parts. Digital documents do not take on coffee cup stains, but when
                they are edited, their new revision dates put them at the top of directory
                listings.
The scale of emergent organization of websites, photos on
                    Flickr, blog posts, and other resources that can be accessed
                and used online dwarfs the incremental evolution of individual Organizing Systems.
                This organization is clearly visible in the pattern of links, tags, or ratings that
                are explicitly associated with these resources, but search engines and advertisers
                also exploit the less visible organization created over time by information about
                which resources were viewed and which links were followed.
The sort of organic or emergent change in Organizing Systems that takes
                place over time contrasts with the planned and systematic maintenance of Organizing
                Systems described as curation or governance, two related but distinct
                activities. Curation usually refers to the methods or
                        systems that add value to and preserve resources, while the
                    concept of governance more often
                    emphasizes the institutions or organizations that carry out those
                        activities. The former is most often used for libraries, museums,
                    or archives and the latter for enterprise or inter-enterprise contexts.
(For more discussion, see §2.5.4, "Governance")
The Organizing Systems for businesses and industries often change
                because of the development of de
                    facto or de jure standards, or
                because of regulations, court decisions, or other events or mandates from entities
                with the authority to impose them.

1.3.6. How (or by Whom) Is It Organized?
"The rise of the Internet is affecting the
                            actual work of organizing information by shifting it from a relatively
                            few professional indexers and catalogers to the populace at large. An important question today is whether the bibliographic
                            universe can be organized both intelligently (that is, to meet the
                            traditional bibliographic objectives) and
                        automatically."--(Svenonius 2000, p. 26)
In the preceding quote, Svenonius identifies three different ways
                for the "work of organizing information" to be performed: by
                professional indexers and catalogers, by the populace at large, and by automated
                (computerized) processes. Our notion of the Organizing System is broader than her
                    "bibliographic universe," making it necessary to extend her
                taxonomy. Authors are increasingly organizing the content they create, and it is
                important to distinguish users in informal and formal or institutional contexts. We
                have also introduced the concept of an organizing agent
(§1.2.3.1) to unify organizing done by people and by computer
                algorithms.
Professional indexers and catalogers undergo extensive training to
                    learn the concepts, controlled descriptive vocabularies, and standard
                    classifications in the particular domains in which they work. Their goal is not
                    only to describe individual resources, but to position them in the larger
                    collection in which they reside. They can create and maintain Organizing Systems with consistent high
                quality, but their work often requires additional research, which is costly.
The class of professional
                        organizers also includes the employees of
                    commercial information services like Westlaw and
                    LexisNexis, who add controlled and, often, proprietary
                metadata to legal and government documents and other news sources.
                    Scientists and scholars with deep
                expertise in a domain often function as the professional organizers for data collections,
                scholarly publications and proceedings, and other specialized information resources
                in their respective disciplines. The 
National Association of Professional
                                Organizers (NAPO) 
                claims several thousand members who will organize your media collection, 
                kitchen, closet, garage or entire house
                or help you downsize to a smaller living space.
Many of today's content creators are unlikely to be professional organizers, but
                presumably the author best
                understands why something was created and the purposes for which it can be used. To
                the extent that authors want to help others find a resource,
                they will assign descriptions or classifications that they expect will be useful to
                those users. But unlike professional
                        organizers, most authors are unfamiliar with controlled
                vocabularies and standard classifications, and as a result their descriptions will
                be more subjective and less consistent.
Similarly, most of us do not hire professionals to
                organize the resources we collect and use in our personal lives, and thus our
                Organizing Systems reflect our individual preferences and idiosyncrasies.
Non-author users in the "populace
                        at large" are most often creating organization for their
                own benefit. These ordinary users are unlikely to use standard
                descriptors and classifications, and the organization they impose sometimes so
                closely reflects their own perspective and goals that it is not useful for others.
                    Fortunately most users of "Web 2.0" or
                        "community content" applications at least partly recognize that
                    the organization of resources emerges from the aggregated contributions of all
                    users, which provides incentive to use less egocentric descriptors and classifications. The
                staggering number of users and resources on the most popular applications inevitably
                leads to "tag convergence" simply because of the statistics of large
                sample sizes.
Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ...
The World Wide Web was invented as a publishing and document
                    distribution medium, and later became a platform for business transactions. But after the bursting of the "dot
                        com bubble" in 2000-2001 it was clear that moving a transactional
                    business model to the web was not enough. In 2005 Tim O'Reilly and Dale Dougherty proposed the concept of "Web 2.0" for firms whose
                    applications literally get better the more people use them because they
                        "harness the collective intelligence" of their users.
Google, Amazon,
                        eBay, Wikipedia,
                        Facebook, Twitter, and
                        YouTube are familiar web-based examples where value is
                    based on aggregating, interpreting, and responding to enormous amounts of
                    user-generated data and content. Websites and resources that attract many
                    visitors collect user interactions implicitly and also allow users to annotate,
                    tag, and evaluate them explicitly. These bottom-up and distributed activities
                    have been called "folksonomies" and
                    "crowdsourcing."
Tagging, bookmarking, and rating mechanisms are rapidly being
                    adapted for use inside companies as techniques for knowledge management, a trend
                    named "Enterprise 2.0" by Andrew McAfee to emphasize its similarity with "Web
                            2.0" while pointing out how it differs. Because
                    every user is authenticated to their real identities, and organizational norms
                    and incentives shape the purposes and nature of user contributions,
                        Enterprise 2.0 applications have been successful
                    at capturing expertise and institutional knowledge.
The core Web 2.0 design
                        principle of empowering users to contribute information to help organize
                        some collection of resources is rapidly being generalized to many other
                        domains of Organizing Systems. Some "Library
                            2.0" discussions contemplate personalized catalogs
                    and information services and enabling patrons to interact online in affinity
                    groups. Similarly, some museums, scientific repositories, and governments are
                    conducting "open access" or "citizen participation"
                    experiments by allowing users access to identify and annotate items, analyze raw
                    data, or create mash-ups or applications that reuse and transform information
                    formerly available only in summary form or finished documents.

Finally, the vast size of the web and the even greater size of the
                    "deep" or invisible web, composed of the information stores of
                business and proprietary information services makes it impossible to imagine today
                that it could be organized by anything other than the massive computational power of
                search engine providers like Google and
                    Microsoft. 
                
                
                Nevertheless, in the earliest days of the web, significant human effort was applied to
                organize it. Most notable is Yahoo!, founded by Jerry Yang and David Filo in 1994 as a directory of favorite websites. For many years the Yahoo!
                homepage was the best way to find relevant websites by browsing the extensive system
                of classification. Today's Yahoo! homepage emphasizes a search engine that makes it
                appear more like Google or Microsoft
                    Bing, but the Yahoo! directory can
                still be found if you search for it.












1.4. Organizing This Book
Devising concepts, methods, and technologies for describing and
            organizing resources have been essential human activities for millennia, evolving both
            in response to human needs and to enable new ones. Organizing Systems enabled the
            development of civilization, from agriculture and commerce to government and warfare.
            Today Organizing Systems are embedded in every domain of purposeful activity, including
            research, education, law, medicine, business, science, institutional memory,
            sociocultural memory, governance, public accountability, as well as in the ordinary acts
            of daily living.
With the World Wide Web and ubiquitous digital information, along with
            effectively unlimited processing, storage and communication capability, millions of
            people create and browse websites, blog, tag, tweet, and upload and download content of
            all media types without thinking "I am organizing now" or "I am
                retrieving now." Writing a book used to mean a long period of isolated work
            by an author followed by the publishing of a completed artifact, but today some books
            are continuously and iteratively written and published through the online interactions
            of authors and readers. When people use their smart phones to
            search the web or run applications, location information transmitted from their phone is
            used to filter and reorganize the information they retrieve. Arranging results to make
            them fit the user's location is a kind of computational curation, but because it takes
            place quickly and automatically we hardly notice it.
Likewise, almost every application that once seemed predominantly
            about information retrieval is now increasingly combined with activities and functions
            that most would consider to be information organization. Google,
                Microsoft, and other search engine operators have deployed
            millions of computers to analyze billions of web pages and millions of books and
            documents to enable the almost instantaneous retrieval of published or archival
            information. However, these firms increasingly augment this retrieval capability with
            information services that organize information in close to real-time. Further, the
            selection and presentation of search results, advertisements, and other information can
            be tailored for the person searching for information using his implicit or explicit
            preferences, location, or other contextual information.
Taken together, these innovations in technology and its application mean
            that the distinction between information organization and
                information retrieval that is often manifested in academic
            disciplines and curricula is much less important than it once was. This book has few
            sharp divisions between information organization
                (IO) and information retrieval
                (IR) topics. Instead, it explains the key concepts and challenges
            in the design and deployment of Organizing Systems in a way that continuously emphasizes
            the relationships and tradeoffs between IO and IR. The
            concept of the Organizing System highlights the design dimensions and decisions that
            collectively determine the extent and nature of resource organization and the
            capabilities of the processes that compare, combine, transform and interact with the
            organized resources.
Navigating The Discipline of Organizing
Chapter 2, "Activities in Organizing Systems"Developing a view that brings together how we organize as
                        individuals with how libraries, museums, governments, research institutions, and
                        businesses create Organizing Systems requires that we generalize the organizing
                        concepts and methods from these different domains. Chapter 2 surveys a wide variety of Organizing Systems and describes
                        four activities or functions shared by all of them: selecting resources, organizing
                        resources, designing resource-based interactions and services, and maintaining
                        resources over time.Chapter 3, "Resources in Organizing Systems"The design of an Organizing System is strongly shaped by what is
                        being organized, the first of the five design decisions we introduced earlier in
                        §1.3.2, "What Is Being Organized?". To enable a broad perspective on this
                        fundamental issue we use resource to
                        refer to anything being organized, an abstraction that we can apply to physical
                        things, digital things, information about either of them, or web-based services or
                        objects. Chapter 3 discusses the challenges and
                        methods for identifying the resources in an Organizing System in great detail and
                        emphasizes how these decisions reflect the goals and interactions that must be
                        supported—the "why" design decisions
                        introduced in §1.3.3, "Why Is It Being Organized?".Chapter 4, "Resource Description and Metadata"
The principles by which resources are organized
                            and the kinds of services and interactions that can be supported for them
                            largely depend on the nature and explicitness of the resource
                            descriptions. This "how much
                                description" design question was introduced in §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"; Chapter 4
                        presents a systematic process for creating effective descriptions and analyzes how
                        this general approach can be adapted for different types of Organizing
                        Systems.Chapter 5, "Describing Relationships and Structures"An important aspect of organizing a collection of resources is
                        describing the relationships between them. Chapter 5 introduces the specialized vocabulary used to describe
                        semantic relationships between resources and between the concepts and words used in
                        resource descriptions. It also discusses the structural relationships within
                        multipart resources and between resources, like those expressed as citations or
                        hypertext links.Chapter 6, "Categorization: Describing Resource Classes and Types"Groups or sets of resources with similar or identical descriptions
                        can be treated as equivalent, making them members of an equivalence
                            class or category. Identifying and using
                        categories are essential human activities that take place automatically for
                        perceptual categories like "red things" or "round things."
                        Categorization is deeply ingrained in language and culture, and we use linguistic
                        and cultural categories without realizing it, but categorization can also be a
                        deeply analytic and cognitive process. Chapter 6
                        reviews theories of categorization from the point of view of how categories are
                        created and used in Organizing Systems.Chapter 7, "Classification: Assigning Resources to Categories"The terms categorization and
                        classification are often used interchangeably but they are
                        not the same. Classification is
                            applied categorization—the assignment of
                                resources to a system of categories, called classes, using a predetermined
                                set of principles.
Chapter 7 discusses the broad range of how
                        classifications are used in Organizing Systems. These include enumerative
                        classification, faceted classification, activity-based classification, and
                        computational classification. Because classification and standardization are closely
                        related, the chapter also analyzes standards and standards-making as they apply to
                        Organizing Systems.Chapter 8, "The Forms of Resource Descriptions"
Chapter 8 complements the conceptual and
                        methodological perspective on the creation of resource descriptions with an
                        implementation perspective. Chapter 8 reviews a
                        range of metamodels for structuring descriptions, with particular emphasis on
                        XML, JSON, and RDF. It
                        concludes by comparing and contrasting three "worlds of description"
—document processing, the web, and the Semantic
                            Web—where each of these three metamodels is most
                        appropriate.Chapter 9, "Interactions with Resources"When Organizing Systems overlap, intersect, 
                        or are combined (temporarily or permanently), 
                        differences in resource descriptions can make it difficult or impossible 
                        to locate resources, access them, or otherwise impair their use. 
                        Chapter 9 
                        reviews some of the great variety
                        of concepts and techniques that different domains use when interacting with
                        resources in Organizing Systems—integration,
                        interoperability, data mapping, crosswalks, mash-ups, and so on. 
                        
                        Interactions are characterized by the layers of resource properties they use: 
                        instance, collection-based, derived, or properties combined from different resources. 
                        Chapter 9 extends the idea 
                        of an information organization - information retrieval continuum,
                        and describes information retrieval interactions (and others) 
                        in terms of information organization (i.e., resource description) requirements.
                        Chapter 10, "The Organizing System Roadmap"
Chapter 10 complements the descriptive
                        perspective of chapters 2-9 with a more prescriptive one that analyzes the design
                        choices and tradeoffs that must be made in different phases in an Organizing
                        System's life cycle. System life cycle models exhibit great variety, but we use a
                        generic four-phase model that distinguishes a domain identification and scoping
                        phase, a requirements phase, a design and implementation phase, and an operational
                        phase. Chapter 11, "Case Studies"In Chapter 11 we use the model described in Chapter 10 to guide the analysis of studies that span the range of
                        Organizing Systems, and make reference to the principles, guidelines, vocabulary,
                        and models discussed in the preceding chapters.












Chapter 2. Activities in Organizing SystemsRobert J. GlushkoErik WildeJess Hemerly
2.1. Introduction
There are four
                    activities that occur naturally in every organizing system; how explicit
                they are depend on the scope, the breadth or variety of the resources, and the
                scale, the number of resources that the organizing system encompasses.
            Consider the routine, everyday task of managing your
                wardrobe. When you organize your clothes
                closet, you are unlikely to write a formal selection policy that specifies what things go
            in the closet. You do not consciously itemize and
                prioritize the ways you expect to search for and locate things, and you are unlikely
                to consider explicitly the organizing principles that you use to arrange
                them. From time to time you will put
                    things back in order and discard things you no longer wear, but you probably
            will not schedule this as a regular activity on your calendar.
Your clothes closet is an organizing system; defined in Chapter 1 as
                "an intentionally arranged collection of resources and the interactions they
                support." As such, it exposes these four highly interrelated and iterative
                activities:
SelectingDetermining the
                            scope of the organizing system by specifying which resources should be
                            included. (Should I hang up my sweaters in the
                            clothes closet or put them in a dresser drawer in the
                            bedroom?)OrganizingSpecifying the principles or rules that will be followed to arrange the
                            resources. (Should I sort my shirts by color, sleeve
                            type, or season?)Designing
                        resource-based interactionsDesigning and implementing the actions, functions or
                            services that make use of the resources. (Do I need
                            storage places for clothes to be laundered? Should I have separate
                            baskets for white and colors? Dry cleaning?) MaintainingManaging and
                            adapting the resources and the organization imposed on them as needed to
                            support the interactions. (When is it time to
                            straighten up the closet? What about mending? Should I toss out clothes
                            based on wear and tear, how long I have owned them, or whether I am
                            tired of them? What about excess hangers?)
Figure 2.1, "Four Activities in all Organizing Systems." illustrates
            these four activities in all
            organizing systems, framing the depiction of the organizing and interaction design
            activities shown in Figure 1.1, "An Organizing System." with the selection and maintenance activities that necessarily
            precede and follow them.
Figure 2.1. Four Activities in all Organizing Systems.

Four activities take place in all
                            organizing systems: selection of resources for a collection; intentional
                            organization of the resources; design and implementation of interactions
                            with individual resources or with the collection, and; maintenance of
                            the resources and the interactions over time.


These activities are not entirely separable or sequential, and they
            can be informal for your clothes closet because its scope and scale are limited. In
            institutional organizing systems the activities and the interdependencies and iterations
            among them are more carefully managed and often highly formal. In addition, these
            activities are deeply ingrained in academic curricula and professional practices, with
            domain-specific terms for their methods and results.
Libraries and
                museums usually make their selection principles explicit in collection development policies. Adding a resource to
                    a library collection is called acquisition, but
                    adding to a museum collection is called accessioning.

Documenting the contents
                        of library and museum collections to organize them is called
                        cataloging.
                    Circulation is a central
                interaction in libraries, but because museum resources do not circulate the primary
                interactions for museum users are viewing or visiting
                the collection. Maintenance
                activities are usually described as preservation or curation.
Domain-specific
                    methods and vocabularies evolve over time to capture the complex and
                distinctive sets of experiences and practices of their respective
                disciplines. We can identify correspondences and overlapping meanings, but
            they are not synonyms or substitutes for each other. We propose more general terms like
                selection and maintenance, not as lowest common
            denominator replacements for these more specialized ones, but to facilitate
            communication and cooperation across the numerous disciplines that are concerned with
            organizing.
It might sound odd to describe the
                    animals in a zoo as resources, to think of viewing a painting in a museum as an interaction, or to
                say that destroying information to comply with privacy regulations is maintenance.
                Taking a broader perspective on the activities in organizing systems so that we can
                identify best practices and patterns enables people with different backgrounds and
                working in different domains to understand and learn from each
            other.
Part of what a database administrator can learn
                from a museum curator follows from the rich associations the curator has accumulated
                around the concept of curation that are not available around the more general
                concept of maintenance. Without the shared concept of maintenance to bridge their disciplines,
                this learning could not take place.
What about "Creating" Resources?
Our definition
                    of organizing system as an intentionally arranged collection of resources might
                    seem to imply that resources must exist before they are organized. This is often
                    the case when we organize physical resources because the
                    need for principled organization only arises when the collection gets too big
                    for us to see everything in the collection at once.
However, organizing systems for digital resources are often put in
                place as a prerequisite for creating them. This is always necessary when the
                resources are created by automated processes or data entry in business systems, and
                usually the case with professional writers in a technical
                publications context. We can think of database or
                    document schemas (at the implementation tier) or data entry forms or word
                    processor templates (in the user interface tier) as embodiments of the
                    organizing principles in the data records or documents that are then created in
                    conformance with them.

In §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource"" and §1.3.2, "What Is Being Organized?"
            we briefly discussed the fundamental concept of a resource. In this chapter, we describe the four primary activities with resources, using examples
            from many different kinds of organizing systems. We emphasize the activities of
            organizing and of designing resource-based interactions that make use of the
            organization imposed on the resources. We discuss selection and maintenance to create the context for the organizing activities and to highlight the
            interdependencies of organizing and
            these other activities. This broad
            survey enables us to compare and contrast the activities in different resource domains,
            setting the stage for a more thorough discussion of resources and resource description in Chapter 3 and Chapter 4.












2.2. Selecting Resources
When we talk about organizing systems, we often do
                so in terms of the contents of their collections. This implies that the most
                fundamental decision for an organizing system is determining its resource domain,
                the group or type of resources that are being organized. This decision is
            usually a constraint, not a choice; we acquire or encounter some resources that we need
            to interact with over time, and we need to organize them so we can do that
            effectively.
Selecting is the process by which resources are identified,
            evaluated, and then added to a collection in an organizing system. Selection is first shaped by the domain and
            then by the scope of the organizing system, which can be analyzed through six
            interrelated aspects: 
the number and nature of users

the time span or lifetime over which the organizing system
                        is expected to operate

the size of the collection

the expected changes to the collection

the physical or technological environment in which the
                        organizing system is situated or implemented

the relationship of the organizing system to other ones
                        that overlap with it in domain or scope.

In Chapter 10, "The Organizing System Roadmap", we discuss
                these six aspects in more detail.

2.2.1. Selecting {and, or, vs.} Organizing
Many types of resources are inevitably evaluated one-at-a-time. It
                is impossible to specify in advance every property or criterion that might be
                considered in making a selection decision, especially for unique or rare
                    resources like those being considered by a museum or private
                collector. As a result, organizing activities typically occur after selection takes
                place, as in the closet organizing system with which we began this chapter.
When the resources being
                    considered for a collection are more homogeneous and predictable, it is possible
                    to specify selection criteria and organizing principles in advance. This makes
                    selection and organizing into concurrent activities. You expect your
                email in-box will receive spam messages, so you might as well create a spam folder
                where the spam filter can deposit the messages it classifies as spam.
Some organizing systems acquire all resources of a particular type
                or from a particular source. Resources are then automatically added to the
                collection according to an organizing decision that need be made only for the first
                resource, with subsequent resources further organized according to properties that
                minimally distinguish them from each other, like their creation or acquisition
                dates.  Syndicated or subscription resources like news feeds or serial
                publications are most often organized in this manner, where the organization imposed
                on the first resource acquired is replicated for each subsequent one. If you
                subscribe to a printed magazine, the magazines undoubtedly end
                up in a stack or pile with the most recent issue on the top.
Finally, as we pointed out in the
                    sidebar, What about "Creating" Resources? selection can sometimes
                follow organizing. An order management system cannot add new orders until it has a
                defined schema for creating them.

2.2.2. Selection Principles
Selection must be an intentional process because, by
                definition, an organizing system contains resources whose selection and arrangement
                was determined by human or computational agents, not by natural processes. Selection methods and criteria vary across resource
                    domains.
Resource selection policies are often shaped by laws,
                    regulations or policies that require or prohibit the collection of certain kinds
                    of objects or types of information.
Libraries typically select resources on the basis of their utility and
                    relevance to their user populations, and try to choose resources that add the
                    most value to their existing collections.
In contrast, museums often emphasize intrinsic
                    value, scarcity, or uniqueness as selection criteria, even if the resources lack
                    any contemporary use.
Both libraries and museums typically formalize
                    their selection principles in collection development policies that establish priorities for
                    acquiring resources that reflect the people they serve and the services they
                    provide to them.
Precise and formal selection principles enable users of a
                    collection to be confident that it contains the most important and useful
                    resources.
In the for-profit sector, well-run firms are similarly systematic
                in selecting the resources that must be managed and the information needed to manage
                them. "Selecting the right resource for the job" is a clichéd way
                of saying this, but this slogan nonetheless applies broadly to human
                    resources, functional equipment, or information
                that drives business processes.
Selection is an essential activity in creating
                    organizing systems whose purpose is to combine separate web services or
                    resources to create a composite service or application according to the business
                    design philosophy of 
                    Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).
When an information-intensive
                    enterprise combines its internal services with outsourced ones provided by other
                    firms, the resources are selected to create a combined collection of services
                    according to the 

"core competency" principle: resources are selected and combined to
                    exploit the enterprise's internal capabilities and those of its service partners
                    better than any other combination of services could.
Even when the selection
                    principles behind a collection are clear and consistent, they can be
                    unconventional, idiosyncratic, or otherwise biased by the perspective and
                    experience of the collector.
This is sometimes the case in museum or library collections that began or
                    grew opportunistically through the acquisition of private
                        collections that reflect a highly individual point of
                    view.
It is especially easy to see the collector's point of view in
                personal collections. Most of the clothes and shoes you own
                have a reason for being in your closet, but could anyone else explain the
                    contents of your closet and its organizing system, and why
                you bought that crazy-looking dress or shirt?

2.2.3. Selection of Digital and Web-based Resources
Digitization is substantially changing how libraries
                select resources. Digital content can be delivered anywhere quickly and cheaply,
                making it easier for a group of cooperating libraries to share resources. For
                example, while each campus of the University of California system
                has its own libraries and library catalogs, system-wide catalogs and digital content
                delivery reduce the need for every campus to have any particular resource in its own
                    collection.
Digitization has had extremely important
                    impacts on the manner in which collections of information resources are created
                    in information-intensive domains such as transportation, retailing, supply chain
                    management, healthcare, energy management, and "big science" where
                    a torrent of low-level information is captured from GPS
                        devices, RFID tags,
                        sensors and science labs.
                    Businesses that once had to rely on limited historical data analysis and printed
                    reports now have to deal with a constant stream of real-time
                    information.
An analogous situation has evolved with personal collections of
                    photographs. Less than two decades
                    ago, before the digital camera became a consumer product, the time and expense
                    of developing photographs induced people to take photos carefully and
                    cautiously. Today the proliferation of digital cameras and
                photo-capable phones has made it so easy to take digital photos and videos that
                people are less selective and take many photos or videos of the same scene or
                event.
The nature and scale of the web changes
                    how we collect resources and fundamentally
                    challenges how we think of resources in the first place. Web-based
                resources cannot be selected for a collection by consulting a centralized
                authoritative directory, catalog, or index because one does not exist. And although
                your favorite web search engine consults an index or directory of web resources when
                you enter a search query, you do not know where that index or directory came from or
                how it was assembled.












2.3. Organizing Resources
Organizing systems arrange their resources according to many different
            principles. In libraries, museums, businesses, government agencies and other
                long-lived institutions, organizing principles are typically documented as
                cataloging rules, information management policies, or other explicit and systematic
                procedures so that different people can apply them consistently over time.
In contrast, the principles for arranging
                resources in personal or small-scale organizing systems are not usually stated in
                any formal way and might even be inconsistent or conflicting.
For most types of resources, any number
            of principles could be used as the basis for their organization depending on the answers
            to the "why?" (§1.3.3), "how much?"
                    (§1.3.4), and
                "how?" (§1.3.6) questions posed in Chapter 1.
Property
In this book we use
                        property
in a generic and ordinary sense as a synonym for 
                    feature
                    or "characteristic." 
                    Many cognitive and computer scientists are
                    more precise in defining these terms and reserve property for binary predicates (e.g.,
                    something is red or not, round or not, and so on). If multiple values are
                    possible, the property is called
                    an attribute,
"dimension," or "variable."

A simple
                principle for organizing resources is collocation
—
putting them in the same place.
However, most organizing systems use principles that
                are based on specific resource properties or properties derived from the collection
                as a whole. What properties are significant and how to think about them
            depends on the number of resources being organized, the purposes for which they are
            being organized, and on the experiences and implicit or explicit biases of the intended
            users of the organizing system. The implementation of the organizing system also shapes
            the need for, and the nature of, the resource properties.
Many resource collections—even very large
                ones—acquire resources one at
            a time or in sets of related resources that can initially be treated in the same way.
            Therefore, it is natural to arrange resources based on properties of individual
            resources that can be assessed and interpreted when the resource is selected and becomes
            part of the collection. Decisions about which resource
                properties will be used in organizing must often precede the creation or collection
                of the resources. This is especially critical for archaeologists,
            naturalists, and scientists of every type. Without information about the context of
            creation or discovery, what might otherwise be important resources could be just
                a handful of pottery shards, a dead
            animal, or some random set of bits on a computer.
Classification Biases
Libraries and bookstores use different classification systems. The kitchen in a restaurant is not organized like a home
                    kitchen because professional cooks think of cooking differently than ordinary
                    people do.
Scientists use the Latin or binomial (genus + species)
                    scheme for identifying and classifying living things to avoid the ambiguities
                    and inconsistencies of common names, which differ across languages and often
                    within different regions in a single language community.

"Subject
                    matter" organization involves the use of a classification system that
                provides categories and descriptive terms for indicating what a resource is about.
                Because they use properties like aboutness
that are not directly perceived, methods for assigning subject
                classifications are intellectually-intensive and require rigorous training to be
                performed consistently and appropriately for the intended users.
Nevertheless, the cost and time required for this human effort motivates
            many organizing systems for information resources to use computational approaches for
            arranging them. As computing power steadily increases the bias toward computational
            organization gets even stronger.
2.3.1. Organizing Physical Resources
When the resources being arranged are physical or tangible
                    things—such as books,
                    paintings, animals, or
                    cooking pots—any resource can be in
                only one place at a time in libraries, museums, zoos, or kitchens. Similarly, when
                organizing involves recording information in a
                    physical medium—carving in stone, imprinting in
                    clay, applying ink to paper by hand or
                with a printing press—how this information can be organized
                is subject to the intrinsic properties and constraints of physical things.
The inescapable tangibility of
                    physical resources means that their organizing systems are
                often strongly influenced by the material or medium in which the resources are
                presented or represented. For example, museums generally collect
original artifacts and their collections are commonly organized
                according to the type of thing being collected. There are
                    art museums, sculpture museums,
                    craft museums, toy museums,
                    science museums, and so on.
Similarly, because they have different material
                    manifestations, we usually organize our printed
                    books in a different location than our record
                    albums, which might be near but remain separate from our
                    CDs and DVDs. This is partly because
                the storage environments for physical resources (shelves,
                cabinets, closets, and so on) have co-evolved with the physical resources they
                    store.
The resource collections of organizing systems
                    in physical environments often grow to fit the size of the environment or place
                    in which they are maintained—the bookshelf, closet,
                    warehouse, library or museum building. Their scale can be large: the
                    Smithsonian Institute in Washington, D.C., the world's
                largest museum and research complex, consists of 19 museums, 9 research facilities,
                a zoo and a library with 1.5 million books. However, at some point, any physical
                space gets too crowded, and it is difficult and expensive to add new floors or
                galleries to an existing library or museum.
2.3.1.1. Organizing with Properties of Physical Resources
Physical resources are often organized
                        according to intrinsic physical properties like their
                            size, color or
                            shape, or intrinsically associated properties such
                        as the place and time they were
                        created or discovered. The shirts in your clothes
                        closet might be arranged by color, by fabric, or style. We can
                    view dress shirts, T-shirts, Hawaiian shirts and other
                    styles as configurations of shirt properties that are so frequent and familiar
                    that they have become linguistic and cultural categories. Other people might
                    think about these same properties or categories differently, using a greater or
                    lesser number of colors or ordering them differently, sorting the shirts by
                    style first and then by color, or vice versa.
In addition to, or instead of, physical properties of your
                    shirts, you might employ behavioral or usage-based properties to arrange them.
                    You might separate your party and Hawaiian shirts from those you wear to the
                    office. You might put the shirts you wear most often in the front of the closet
                    so they are easy to locate. Unlike intrinsic properties of resources, which do
                    not change, behavioral or usage-based properties are dynamic. You might move to
                    Hawaii, where you can wear Hawaiian shirts to the office, or you could get tired
                    of what were once your favorite shirts and stop wearing them as often as you
                    used to.
Some arrangements of physical resources are
                        constrained or precluded by resource properties that might cause problems
                        for other resources or for their users. Hazardous or flammable
                    materials should not be stored where they might spill or ignite; lions and
                    antelopes should not share the same zoo habitat or the former will eat the
                    latter; and adult books and movies should not be kept in a library where
                    children might accidentally find them. For almost any resource, it seems
                    possible to imagine a combination with another resource that might have
                    unfortunate consequences. We have no shortage of professional certifications,
                    building codes, MPAA movie ratings, and
                    other types of laws and regulations designed to keep us safe from potentially
                    dangerous resources.

2.3.1.2. Organizing with Descriptions of Physical Resources
To overcome the inherent constraints with organizing
                        physical resources, organizing systems often use
                    additional physical resources that describe the primary physical ones, with the
                        library card catalog being the classic example. A specific physical resource might be
                        in a particular place, but multiple description resources for it can be in
                        many different places at the same time.
Card Catalog Cabinet


Library catalogs were
                                        managed as collections of printed cards for much of the 20th
                                        century, and the wooden cabinets that contained them were
                                        ubiquitous functional furniture in every library. Today such
                                        cabinets are often considered "retro" or
                                        antique treasures.
This carefully restored cabinet belongs to
                                    Professor Vivien Petras at the School of Library and Information
                                    Science at Humboldt University in Berlin.
(Photo by R. Glushko.)



Card From Library Catalog


A catalog card from the
                                        collection of the library of the School of Library and
                                        Information Sciences at the University of California,
                                        Berkeley. The library was closed in 1986, and this card was
                                        found in a discard bin when the library space was renovated
                                        to create the graduate student lounge of the new School of
                                        Information. It is a bit ironic that the card describes a
                                        book about the monastic libraries of Wales, which like the
                                        library in which this card came from are no longer in
                                        existence.
(Photo by R. Glushko.)



When the description resources are themselves digital, as when a
                    printed library card catalog is put online, the additional layer of abstraction
                    created enables additional organizing possibilities that can ignore physical
                    properties of resources and many of the details about how they are
                    stored.
In organizing systems that use
                        additional resources to identify or describe primary one's "adding to a collection" is a logical
                        act that need not require any actual movement, copying, or reorganization of
                        the primary resources. This virtual addition allows the same
                    resources to be part of many collections at the same time; the same book can be
                    listed in many bibliographies, the same web page can be in many lists of web
                    bookmarks and have incoming links from many different pages, and a publisher's
                    digital article repository can be licensed to any number of libraries.


2.3.2. Organizing Digital Resources
Organizing systems that arrange digital resources
                like digital documents or information services have some important differences from
                those that organize physical resources. Because digital resources can be easily
                copied or interlinked, they are free from the "one place at a
                        time" limitation. The actual storage locations for digital resources
                are no longer visible or very important. It hardly matters if a digital document or
                video resides on a computer in Berkeley or Bangalore if it can be located and
                accessed efficiently.
Moreover, because the functions and capabilities of digital resources
                are not directly manifested as physical properties, the constraints imposed on all
                    material objects do not
                matter to digital content in many circumstances.
                
            
Materiality
An emerging issue in the field of digital humanities 
                        is 
                      the requirement to recognize the 
                            materiality
                      of the environment that enables people to create and interact with digital resources
                    Even if the resources themselves are
                    intangible, it can be necessary to study and preserve the technological and
                    social context in which they exist 
                    to fully understand them.
                

An organizing system for digital resources can also use digital
                description resources that are associated with them. Since the incremental costs of
                adding processing and storage capacity to digital organizing
                systems are small, collections of both primary digital resources and description
                resources can be arbitrarily large. Digital organizing systems can support
                collections and interactions at a scale that is impossible in organizing systems
                that are entirely physical, and they can implement services and functions that
                exploit the exponentially growing processing, storage and communication capabilities
                available today. This all sounds good, unless you are the small local business with
                limited inventory that cannot compete with global web retailers that offer many more
                choices.
There are inherently more arrangements of
                    digital resources than there are for physical ones, but this difference emerges
                    because of multiple implementation platforms for the organizing system as much
                    as in the nature of the resources. Nevertheless, the organizing systems
                for digital books, music and video collections often maintain the distinctions
                embodied in the organizing system for physical resources because it enables their
                co-existence or simply because of legacy inertia. As a result, the organizing
                systems for collections of digital resources tend to be coarsely distinguished by
                media type (e.g., document management, digital music collection, digital video
                collection, digital photo collection, etc.).
Information resources in either physical or digital form are
                typically organized using intrinsic properties like author names, creation dates,
                publisher, or the set of words that they contain. Information resources can also be
                organized using extrinsic or behavioral properties like subject classifications,
                assigned names or identifiers, or even access frequency.
Just as there are many laws and regulations that restrict the
                organization of physical resources, there are laws and regulations that constrain
                the arrangements of digital ones. Many information systems
                    that generate or collect transactional data are prohibited from sharing any
                    records that identify specific people.
Banking, accounting, and legal organizing systems are made
                    more homogeneous by compliance and reporting standards and
                rules.
2.3.2.1. Organizing Web-based Resources
The Domain Name System (DNS) 
                    is the most inherent scheme for organizing web
                    resources. Top-level domains for countries (.us, .jp, .cn, etc.) and generic
                    resource categories (.com, .edu. .org, gov, etc.) provide some clues about the
                    resources organized by a website. These clues are most reliable for large
                    established enterprises and publishers; we know what to expect at
                        ibm.com, Berkeley.edu, and
                        sfgov.org.
The conventional library is both
                    a collection of books and the physical
                        space in which the collection is managed. On the web, rich hyper linking and the fact that the actual
                        storage location of web resources is unimportant to the end users
                        fundamentally undermine the idea that organizing systems must collect
                        resources and then arrange them under some kind of local control to be
                        effective. The spectacular rise during the1990s of the
                        AOL
"walled garden," created on the assumption that the open web was
                    unreliable, insecure, and pernicious, was for a time a striking historical
                    reminder and warning to designers of closed resource collections until its
                    equally spectacular collapse in the following decade.
                     But Facebook so far is succeeding by
                    following a walled garden strategy.

2.3.2.2. "Information Architecture" and Organizing Systems
The discipline known as
                            information
                            architecture can be viewed as a specialized approach for
                        designing the information models and their systematic manifestations in user experiences on web sites and in other information-intensive organizing systems.
Abstract patterns of information content or organization are sometimes
                        called architectures, so it is straightforward from the perspective of the
                        discipline of organizing to define the activity of information
                                architecture as designing an
                            abstract and effective organization of information and then exposing
                            that organization to facilitate navigation and information
                            use.
Our definition of information
                        architecture implies a methodology for the design of user interfaces and
                        interactions that puts conceptual modeling at the foundation, considering
                        presentation or physical design issues afterward.
Best practices in information architecture emphasize
                        the use of systematic principles or design patterns for organizing the
                        resources and interactions in user interfaces. The logical design is then
                        translated into a graphical design consisting of arranged windows, panes,
                        menus, and other user interface components. 
The Activities of Information Architecture
IA is a relatively new field, but the ubiquity of the web
                        and information-intensive applications that must implement many types of
                        user interactions has inspired many conceptual and methodological
                        innovations. Here are some of them. 
Selecting Resources: To make good choices
                        about what content to include in an information system or service, methods
                        and tools for creating and organizing the information that is potentially
                        available are important. Glushko and McGrath's method for creating a
                            "Document Inventory" and Halvorson and Rach's
                            "Information Inventory" both use a matrix or grid format to
                        list information sources and various associated properties. Once the
                        inventory is completed, the information must be evaluated with respect to
                        the user and information requirements. This usually requires a more
                        fine-grained analysis to choose the most reliable or reusable source when
                        there are alternatives. This process is usually called content auditing, and
                        tools or templates for organizing the work are easy to find on the web. 
Organizing Resources: Tidwell proposes a
                        set of design patterns for input forms, text and graphic editors,
                        information graphics, calendars, and other common types of web applications
                        that organize resources. Morville and Rosenfield classify design patterns as
                            "organization schemes" and "organization
                            structures," reinforcing the idea that information architecture
                        is a sub-specialty of the discipline of organizing. 
Designing Interactions: Kalbach
                        presents design patterns and implementations for navigation interactions.
                        Resmini and Rosati discuss architectures and examples for information
                        architectures that interconnect physical and digital channels. Marcotte
                        introduces techniques for adapting user interfaces to the size and
                        capabilities of different devices, collectively called responsive web
                        design.
Information architects use a variety of tools for representing 
                        information and process models. 
                        Common ones include site maps, workflow and dataflow diagrams, and wireframe models.  
                        Brown's 
                        Communicating Design
                       and Abel and Baillie's 
                        The Language of Content Strategy 
                        are concise sources.
                     

Many organizing systems need to support interactions to
                    find, identify, and select resources. Some of these systems contain both
                    physical and digital resources, as in a bookstore with both web and physical
                    channels, and many interactions are implemented across more than one device.
                    Both the cross-channel and multiple-device situations create user expectations
                    that interactions will be consistent across these different contexts. 
                    Starting with a conceptual model and separating content
                        and structure from presentation, as we discussed in
                                §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle"", gives organizing systems
                        more implementation alternatives and makes them more robust in the face of
                        technology diversity and change.

A model-based
                    foundation is also essential in information visualization applications,
                    which depict the structure and relationships in large data collections using
                    spatial and graphical conventions to enable user interactions for
                    exploration and analysis. By transforming data and applying color, texture,
                    density, and other properties that are more directly perceptible,
                    information visualization applications enable people to obtain more
                    information than they can from text displays.
Some designers of
                        information systems put less emphasis on conceptual modeling as an
                            "inside-out" foundation for interaction design and more
                        emphasis on an "outside-in" approach that highlights layout and
                        other presentation-tier considerations with the goal of making interactions
                        easy and enjoyable. This focus is typically called user experience design,
                        and information architecture methods remain an important part of it, but not
                        beginning with explicit organizing principles implies more heuristic methods
                        and yields less predictable results. 


2.3.3. Organizing with Multiple Resource Properties
Multiple properties of the resources, the
                    person organizing or intending to use them, and the social and technological
                    environment in which they are being organized can collectively shape their
                    organization. For example, the way you organize your home kitchen is
                influenced by the physical layout of counters, cabinets, and
                drawers; the dishes you cook most often; your skills as a cook, which may influence
                the number of cookbooks, specialized
                    appliances and tools you own and how you use
                them; the sizes and shapes of the packages in the pantry and refrigerator; and even
                your height.
If
                        multiple resource properties are considered in a fixed order, the
                    resulting arrangement forms a logical hierarchy.
The top level categories of resources are created based on
                    the values of the property evaluated first, and then each category is further
                    subdivided using other properties until each resource is classified in only a
                    single category. A typical example of hierarchical arrangement for
                digital resources is the system of directories or folders used by a professor to
                arrange his personal document collection in a computer file system; the first level
                distinguishes personal documents from work-related documents; work is then
                subdivided into teaching and research, teaching is subdivided by year, and year
                divided by course. For physical resources, an additional step
                of mapping categories to physical locations is required; for
                example, resources in the category "kitchen
                    utensils" might all be arranged in drawers near a workspace,
                with "silverware" arranged more precisely to separate knives, forks,
                and spoons.
An alternative to hierarchical organization
                    that is often used in digital organizing systems is faceted classification, in which the different properties for
                    the resources can be evaluated in any order. For example, you can
                select wines from the wine.com store catalog by type of grape,
                cost, or region and consider these property facets in any order. Three people might
                each end up choosing the same moderately-priced Kendall Jackson California
                Chardonnay, but one of them might have started the search based on price, one based
                on the grape varietal, and the third with the region. This kind of interaction in
                effect generates a different logical hierarchy for every different combination of
                property values, and each user made his final selection from a different set of
                wines.
Another way to understand faceted classification is
                    that it allows a collection of description resources to be dynamically
                    re-organized into as many categories as there are combinations of values on the
                    descriptive facets, depending on the priority or point of view the user applies
                    to the facets. Of course this only works because the physical
                    resources are not themselves being rearranged, only their digital
                descriptions.
Chapter 7, "Classification: Assigning Resources to Categories" explains principles and methods for
                hierarchical and faceted classification in more detail.












2.4. Designing Resource-based Interactions
There would be no point in selecting and organizing resources if they
            could not be accessed or interacted with in some way. Organizing systems vary a great
            deal in the types of resource-based interactions they
            enable and in the nature and extent of access they allow.
It is essential to distinguish the
                interactions that are designed into and directly supported by an organizing system
                from those that can take place with resources after they have been
                accessed. For example, when a book is checked out of a
            library it might be read, translated, summarized, criticized, or otherwise
                used—but none of these interactions are directly designed
            into the library. We need to focus on the interactions that are
                enabled because of the intentional acts of description or arrangement that transform
                a collection of resources into an organizing system. Note that some of
            these "designed interactions" might be explicitly supported in an
            organizing system containing digital books, as in Google's search
                engine where language translation is a
            supported service.
Users have direct access to original
                resources in a collection when they browse through library stacks or wander in
                museum galleries. Users have mediated or indirect access
                when they use catalogs or search engines, and sometimes they can only interact with
                copies or descriptions of the resources.
2.4.1. Affordance and Capability
The concept of
                        affordance, introduced
                    by J. J. Gibson and then extended and popularized by Donald Norman, captures the idea that physical
                            resources and their environments have inherent actionable
                        properties that determine, in conjunction with an actor's capabilities and
                        cognition, what can be done with the resource.
When organizing resources involves
                    arranging physical resources using boxes, bins, cabinets, or shelves, the
                    affordances and the implications for access and use can be easily
                    perceived. Resources of a certain size and
                    weight can be picked up and carried away. Books on the
                lower shelves of bookcases are easy to reach, but those stored ten feet from the
                ground cannot be easily accessed. Overhead and end-of-aisle
                    signs support navigation and
                orientation in libraries and stores, and the information on book spines or product
                packages help us select a specific resource.
We can analyze the organizing systems with physical
                    resources to identify the affordances and the possible interactions
                they imply. We can compare the affordances or overall
                    interaction capability enabled by
                    different organizing systems for some type of physical resources, and we often
                    do this without thinking about it.
 The tradeoffs between the amount of work that goes into organizing a
                collection of resources and the amount of work required to find and use them are
                inescapable when the resources are physical objects or information resources are in
                    physical form. We can immediately
                    see that storing information on scrolls does not enable the
                    random access capability that is possible with books. When you
                implement the organizing system for your clothes closet, you can see the number and
                arrangement of the shelves and consider the tradeoff between extensive and minimal
                organization and the implications for the amount of interaction effort required to
                put away and find clothes in each case.
What and how to count to compare the capabilities of organizing
                systems becomes more challenging the further we get from collections of static
                    physical resources, like books or shoes, where it is
                usually easy to perceive and understand the possible interactions. With computers,
                information systems, and digital resources in general, considerations about
                affordances and capabilities are not as straightforward.
First, the affordances we
                can perceive might not be tied to any useful interaction. Donald Norman joked that every computer screen within reaching distance affords
                touching, but unless the display is touch-sensitive, this affordance only benefits
                companies that sell screen-cleaning materials.
Second, most of the interactions that are supported
                by digital resources are not apparent when you encounter them. You cannot tell from
                their names, but you probably know from past experience what interactions are
                possible with files of types ".doc" and ".pdf." You
                probably do not know what interactions take place with ".xpi" and
                    ".mobi" files.
Once you have discovered it, the
                        capability of digital
                    resources and information systems can be assessed by counting the number of
                    functions, services, or application program interfaces. However, this
                very coarse measure does not take into account differences in the capability or
                generality of a particular interaction. For example, two organizing systems might
                both have a search function, but differences in the operators they allow, the
                sophistication of pre-processing of the content to create index terms, or their
                usability can make them vastly differ in power, precision, and
                    effectiveness.
An analogous measure of
                        functional capability for a system with dynamic or
                    living resources is the behavioral repertoire, the number
                    of different activities, or range of actions, that can be
                initiated.
We should not assume that supporting more
                    types of interactions necessarily makes a system better or more capable; what
                    matters is how much value is created or invoked in each interaction.
Doors that open automatically when their
                    sensors detect an approaching person do not need
                    handles. Organizing systems can use stored or computed
                information about user preferences or past interactions to anticipate user needs or
                personalize recommendations.  This has the effect of substituting information for interaction to make
                interactions unnecessary or simpler. For example, a current awareness service that
                automatically informs you about relevant news from many sources makes it unnecessary
                to search any of them separately.

2.4.2. Interaction and Value Creation
A useful way to distinguish types of
                        interactions with resources is according to
                    the way in which they create value, using a classification proposed by Apte and
                    Mason. They noted that interactions differ not just in their overall intensity
                    but in the absolute and relative amounts of physical manipulation, interpersonal
                    or empathetic contact, and symbolic manipulation or information exchange
                    involved in the interaction.
Furthermore, Apte and Mason recognized that the proportions of
                these three types of value creating activities can be treated as design parameters,
                especially where the value created by retrieving or computing information could be
                completely separated from the value created by physical actions and person-to-person
                encounters. This configuration of value creation enables automated self-service, in
                which the human service provider can be replaced by technology, and outsourcing, in
                which the human provider is separated in space or time from the customer.
2.4.2.1. Value Creation with Physical Resources
Physical manipulation is often
                    the intrinsic type of interaction with collections of physical
                        resources. The resource might have to be handled or directly
                    perceived in order to interact with it, and often the experience of interacting
                    with the resource is satisfying or entertaining, making it a goal in its own
                    right. People often visit museums, galleries, zoos,
                        animal theme parks or other institutions that contain physical resources
                        because they value the direct, perceptual, or otherwise unmediated
                        interaction that these organizing systems support.
Physical manipulation and interpersonal
                        contact might be required to interact with information resources in
                    physical form like the printed books in libraries. A large
                    university library contains millions of books and academic journals, and access
                    to those resources can require a long walk deep into the library stacks after a
                    consultation with a reference librarian or a search in a library catalog. 
However, for most people the primary purpose of interacting with a
                    library is to access the information contained
                    in its resources. For most people access in a digital library to copies of
                    printed documents or books is equivalent to or even better than access to the
                    original physical resource because the incidental physical and interpersonal
                    interactions have been eliminated. In addition, many of the interactions in
                    libraries are searches for known items, and this function is easily supported by
                    digital search.
In some organizing systems robotic devices, computational
                        processes, or other entities that can act autonomously with no need for a
                        human agent carry out interactions with physical resources.
Robots have profoundly increased
                        efficiency in materials management,
                                "picking and packing" in
                            warehouse fulfillment, office
                            mail delivery, and in many other domains where human agents once located, retrieved, and delivered
                            physical resources.
A "library robot"system that can
                        locate books and grasp them from the shelves has been deployed in many libraries 
                        and can manage seven times as many books 
                        in the same space used 
                        by conventional open stacks
Interactions with physical
                        resources often have highly tangible results; in the preceding
                    examples of fulfillment and delivery interactions, resources move from one
                    location to another. However, if we take an abstract or architectural
                    perspective on interaction design and value creation, this often creates more
                    flexibility in carrying out the interactions while still producing the value
                    that the user of the organizing system expects. For example, the user of the organizing system that implements an
                    Internet-based retail business model need not know and probably does not care
                    which delivery service carries out a request to deliver a package from a
                    warehouse. Presenting the interaction to the user as the
                            "delivery service" rather than
                    as a "FedEx" or "UPS" service allows the retailer to
                    choose the best service provider for each delivery. Going even further, if you
                    need printed documents at a conference, sales meeting, or
                    somewhere else other than your current location, the interaction you desire is
                        "provide me with documents at this location" and not
                        "deliver my documents." It does not matter that
                        FedEx will print your documents at their destination
                    rather than shipping them there. In general, more abstract descriptions of
                        interactions and services allow for
                    transparent  substitution of the implementation, potentially enabling a computational process to be a substitute for one carried out by a
                    person, or vice versa.
Library Robot


An automated robot
                                        library system at San Francisco State University.
The automated robot library system installed by the Dematic
                                    Group stores books in bins stacked on three-story-tall metal
                                    racks in five long aisles. Instead of arranging the books using
                                    a library classification scheme, books are stored according to
                                    their sizes in metal bins, most of which are ten or twelve
                                    inches deep and contain about one hundred books. A request for a
                                    book from the online catalog is sent to the Dematic system,
                                    which looks up the current storage location so it can direct a
                                    robot to pull the bin from the correct aisle and rack and then
                                    bring it to the circulation desk. Human librarians then find the
                                    requested book in the bin and scan its barcode to trigger a
                                    message to the user who made the request. To store a book, the
                                    librarian scans its barcode, and then the Dematic system brings
                                    the closest bin with available space.
(Photo by
                                   Scott Abel. 
                                    Used with permission.)




2.4.2.2. Value Creation with Digital Resources
With digital resources, neither physical manipulation nor
                    interpersonal contact is required for interactions, and the essence of the
                    interaction is information exchange or symbolic manipulation of the information contained
                    in the resource.
                    Put another way, by replacing interactions that involve people and
                    physical resources with symbolic ones, organizing systems can lower their costs
                    without reducing user satisfaction. This is why so many businesses have automated their information-intensive processes with
                        self-service technology like
                    ATMs, websites, or smart phone
                    apps.
Similarly, web search
                        engines eliminate the physical effort required to visit a
                    library and enable users to consult more readily accessible digital resources. A
                        search engine returns a list of the page titles
                    of resources that can be directly accessed with just another click, so it takes
                    little effort to go from the query results to the primary resource. This reduces
                    the need for the rich surrogate descriptions that libraries have always been
                    known for because it enables rapid evaluation and iterative query refinement
                    based on inspection of the primary resources.
Stop and Think: Browsing for Books
How does the experience of browsing for books in a library or bookstore compare 
                        with browsing using a search engine? 
                        What aspects are the same or analogous in all these contexts? 
                        What aspects are different?
                        

Museums have aggressively embraced the web to
                    provide access to their collections. While few museum visitors would prefer
                    viewing a digital image over experiencing an original
                        painting, sculpture, or other
                        physical artifact, the alternative is often no access
                    at all. Most museum collections are far larger than the
                        space available to display them, so the web makes it possible to provide
                        access to otherwise hidden resources.
Businesses that
                        create or own their information resources can readily take advantage of the
                        enhanced interactions that digital formats enable.
                    For libraries, however, copyright is often a barrier to
                    digitization, both as a matter of law and because digitization enables copyright
                    enforcement to a degree not possible with physical resources. As a result,
                    digital books are somewhat controversial and problematic for libraries, whose
                    access models were created based on the economics of print publication and the
                    social contract of the copyright first sale doctrine that
                    allowed libraries to lend printed books.


2.4.3. Access Policies
Different levels of interactions
                or access can apply to different resources in a
                collection or to different categories of users. For example, library collections can
                range from completely open and public, to allowing limited access, to wholly private
                and restricted.
The library stacks might be open to anyone, but the
                    rare documents in a special collection might be accessible
                only to authorized researchers. The same is true of museums, which typically have
                only a fraction of their collections on public display.
Because of their commercial and competitive
                    purposes, organizing systems in business domains are more likely to enforce a
                    granular level of access control that distinguishes people according to their
                    roles and that further distinguishes them according to the nature of their
                    interactions with resources. For example, administrative assistants in
                a company's Human Resources department are not allowed to see employee salaries;
                    HR employees in a benefits administration role can see the
                salaries but not change them; management-level employees in HR can
                change the salaries. Some firms limit access to specific
                    times from authorized computers or IP
                    addresses.
A noteworthy situation arises when the
                person accessing the organizing system is the one who designed and implemented it.
                In this case, the person will have qualitatively better knowledge of the resources
                and the supported interactions. This situation most often arises in the organizing
                systems in kitchens, home closets, and other highly personal domains but can also
                occur in knowledge-intensive business and professional domains like consulting,
                customer relationship management, and scientific research.
Many of the organizing
                    systems used by individuals are embedded in physical contexts where the access
                    controls are applied in a coarse manner. We need a key to get into the
                house, but we do not need additional permissions or passwords to enter our closets
                or kitchens or to take a book from a bookshelf. In our online lives, however, we
                readily accept and impose more granular access controls on our personal computers
                and in the applications we use. For example, we might allow or block individual
                    "friend" requests on Facebook or mark photos on Flickr as
                public, private, or viewable only by named groups or individuals.
We can further contrast access policies based on their origins or
                motivations.
Designed resource access
                            policies are established by the
                        designer or operator of an organizing system to satisfy internally generated
                        requirements. Examples of designed access policies are:
                giving more access to "inside"
                        users (e.g., residents of a community, students or faculty members at a university,
                        or employees of a company) than to anonymous or "outside" users;
                        
giving more access to paying users than to users who do not pay; 
                        
giving more access to users with capabilities or competencies 
                        that can add value to the organizing system 
                        (e.g., material culture researchers like archaeologists or anthropologists, 
                        who often work with resources in museum collections that are not on display).
                        


Imposed Policies are
                        mandated by an external entity and the organizing system must
                        comply with them. For example, an organizing system
                might have to follow information privacy or security regulations that restrict access to resources or the interactions that
                can be made with them. University libraries typically
                    complement or replace parts of their print collections with networked access to
                    digital content licensed from publishers.
Typical licensing terms then require them to restrict access to users
                that are associated with the university, either by being on campus or by using
                    virtual private network (VPN) software that controls remote access to the library network. 
                Copyright law limits the uses of a substantial
                    majority of the books in the collections of major libraries, prohibiting them
                    from being made fully available in digital formats.
Museums often prohibit
                        photography because they do not own the rights to modern works they
                    display.
Whether an access policy is designed or imposed is
                not always clear. Policies that were originally designed
                    for a particular organizing system may over time become best practices or
                    industry standards, which regulators or industry groups not satisfied with
                        "self-regulation" later impose.
Museums might aggressively enforce a ban on photography not
                    just to comply with copyright law, but also to enhance the revenue they get from
                    selling posters and reproductions.












2.5. Maintaining Resources
Maintaining resources is an important activity in every
                organizing system regardless of the nature of its collection because resources or
                surrogates for them must be available at the time they are needed. Beyond
            these basic shared motivations are substantial differences in maintenance goals and methods depending on
            the domain of the organizing system.
Different domains sometimes use the same
                terms to describe different maintenance activities and different terms for similar activities.
                The most common terms are storage,
                    preservation, curation, and governance. Storage is most
            often used when referring to physical or technological aspects of maintaining resources;
            backup (for short-term storage), archiving (for long-term storage), and migration
            (moving stored resources from one storage device to another) are similar in this
            respect. The other three terms generally refer to activities or methods and more closely
            overlap in meaning; we will distinguish them in §2.5.2 through §2.5.4.
Ideally, maintenance requirements for resources
                should be anticipated when organizing principles are defined and implemented. In
                particular, resource descriptions to support long-term preservation of digital
                resources are important.
2.5.1. Motivations for Maintaining Resources
The concept of
                        memory
                            institution broadly applies to a great many
                    organizing systems that share the goal of preserving knowledge and cultural heritage.
The primary resources in libraries, museums,
                    data archives or other memory
                        institutions are fixed cultural, historic, or scientific
                    artifacts that are maintained because they are unique and original items with
                    future value. This is why the Louvre preserves the
                portrait of the Mona Lisa and the United States
                    National Archives preserves the Declaration of
                    Independence.
In contrast, in the organizing systems used by businesses
                many of the resources that are collected and managed have limited intrinsic value.
                    The motivation for preservation and maintenance is
                    economic; resources are maintained because they are essential in running the
                    business. For example, businesses collect and preserve information
                about employees, inventory, orders, invoices, etc., because it ensures internal
                goals of efficiency, revenue generation and competitive advantage. The same
                resources (such as information about a customer) are often used by more than one
                part of the business.
                Maintaining the accuracy and consistency of changing
                    resources is a major challenge in business organizing
                    systems.
Many business organizing systems preserve
                    information needed to satisfy externally imposed regulatory or compliance
                    policies and serve largely to avoid possible catastrophic costs from penalties
                    and lawsuits. In all these cases, resources are maintained as one of
                the means employed to preserve the business as an ongoing enterprise, not as an end
                in itself.
Unlike libraries, archives, and museums, indefinite preservation
                is not the central goal of most business organizing systems. These organizing
                systems mostly manage information needed to carry out day-to-day operations or
                relatively recent historical information used in decision support and strategic
                planning. In addition to these internal mandates, businesses have to conform to
                securities, taxation, and compliance regulations that impose requirements for
                long-term information preservation.
Of course, libraries, museums, and archives
                also confront economic issues as they seek to preserve and maintain their
                collections and themselves as memory
                    institutions. They view their collections as intrinsically valuable in ways that firms
                generally do not. Art galleries are an interesting hybrid because they organize and
                preserve collections that are valuable, but if they do not manage to sell some
                things, they will not stay in business.
In between these contrasting purposes of preservation and maintenance are the motives in personal collections, which
                occasionally are created because of the inherent value of the items but more
                typically because of their value in supporting personal activities. Some people
                treasure old photos or collectibles that
                belonged to their parents or grandparents and imagine their own children or
                grandchildren enjoying them, but many old collections seem to end up as offerings on
                    eBay. In addition, many personal organizing systems
                are task-oriented, so their contents need not be preserved after the task is
                    completed.

2.5.2. Preservation
At the most
                    basic level, preservation of resources means maintaining them in conditions that protect them from physical
                    damage or deterioration. Libraries, museums, and archives aim for
                stable temperatures and low humidity. Permanently or temporarily
                    out-of-service aircraft are parked in deserts where dry
                conditions reduce corrosion. Risk-aware businesses create
                    continuity plans that involve off-site storage of the data and documents needed
                    to stay in business in the event of a natural disaster or other
                    disruption.
When the goal is indefinite preservation,
                    other maintenance issues
                    arise if resources deteriorate or are damaged. How much of an
                artifact's worth is locked in with the medium used to express it? How much
                restoration should be attempted? How much of the essence of an artifact is retained
                if it is converted to a digital format?
Archivists at Work


The University of Texas School of Information has
                                great expertise in document archiving and preservation and operates
                                a conservation laboratory. Karen Pavelka teaches a course titled 
                                Treatment techniques for flat paper.
In the first photo Catherine Bell is working on a light table, which enables her to see
                                the tears and losses in a 19th century document more clearly.






In the second photo, Heather Bollinger has repaired a similar 19th century document with
                                conservation quality tissue and wheat starch paste.
(Photos by 
                                R. Glushko.)




2.5.2.1. Digitization and Preserving Resources
Preservation is often a key motive for digitization, but
                    digitization alone is not preservation. Digitization
                        creates preservation challenges because technological obsolescence of
                        computer software and hardware require ongoing efforts to ensure the
                        digitized resources can be accessed.
Technological obsolescence is the
                        major challenge in maintaining digital
                        resources. The most visible one is a result of the relentless
                    evolution of the physical media and environments used to
                    store digital information in both institutional or business and personal
                    organizing systems. Computer data began to be stored on magnetic
                        tape and hard disk drives six decades ago,
                    on floppy disks four decades ago, on
                        CDs three decades ago, on DVDs two
                    decades ago, on solid-state drives half a decade ago, and
                    in "cloud-based" or "virtual" storage environments in
                    the last decade. As the capacity of storage
                        technologies grows from kilobytes to megabytes to gigabytes to terabytes to
                        petabytes, economic and efficiency considerations often make the case to
                        adopt new technology to store newly acquired digital resources and raise
                        questions about what to do with the existing ones.
The second challenge might seem paradoxical. Even as the capacities of digital storage technologies
                        increase at a staggering pace, the expected useful lifetimes of the physical
                        storage media are measured in years or at best in decades.
                    Colloquial terms for this problem are 
                    data rot 
                    or "bit rot." 
                    In contrast, books printed on acid-free paper can last for
                    centuries. The contrast between printed and digital
                        resources is striking; books on library shelves do not disappear if no one
                        uses them, but digital data can be lost just because no one wants access to
                        it within a year or two after its creation.
However, limits to
                        the physical lifetime of digital storage media are much
                        less significant than the third challenge, the fact that the software and
                        its associated computing environment used to parse and interpret the
                        resource at the time of preservation might no longer be available when the
                        resource needs to be accessed. Twenty-five years ago most digital
                    documents were created using the Word Perfect word
                    processor, but today the vast majority is created using Microsoft
                        Word and few people use Word
                        Perfect today. Software and services
                        that convert documents from old formats to new ones are widely available,
                        but they are only useful if the old file can be read from its legacy storage
                        medium.
Because almost every digital device has storage
                    associated with it, problems posed by multiple storage environments can arise at
                    all scales of organizing systems. Only a few years ago people often struggled
                    with migrating files from their old computer, music player or phone when they
                    got new ones. Web-based email and applications and
                        web-based storage services like Dropbox,
                            Amazon Cloud Drive, and Apple
                            iCloud eliminate some data storage and migration problems
                        by making them someone else's responsibility, but in doing so introduce
                        privacy and reliability concerns.
It is easy to say that the solutions to the
                    problems of digital preservation are regular recopying of the digital resources
                    onto new storage media and then migrating them to new formats when significantly
                    better ones come along. In practice, however, how libraries, businesses,
                    government agencies or other enterprises deal with these problems depends on
                    their budgets and on their technical sophistication. In addition, not every
                    resource should or can always be migrated, and the co-existence of multiple
                    storage technologies makes an organizing system more complex because different
                    storage formats and devices can be collectively incompatible. Dealing with interoperability and integration problems will
                        be discussed further in Chapter 9, "Interactions with Resources".
The Hathi Trust Digital Library
The  
                        Hathi Trust is a worldwide
                        partnership of several dozen major research institutions and libraries
                        dedicated to "collecting, organizing, preserving, communicating, and
                            sharing the record of human knowledge." The Hathi Trust was
                        established in 2008 to coordinate the efforts of libraries in managing the
                        digital copies of the books they received in return for providing books to
                        Google for its book digitization projects. Since then the Hathi Trust has
                        broadened its scope to include the public domain books collected by the
                        Internet Archive and numerous other digital collections, and today its
                        digital library has over ten million volumes. The costs of running the Hathi
                        Trust and its digital library are shared in a transparent manner by the
                        institutions that contributed digital collections or that want access to
                        them, which reduces the costs for everyone compared to a "go it
                            alone" strategy. The Hathi Trust Digital Library has separate
                        modes for catalog search and full-text search of the library contents,
                        unlike commercial search engines that do not distinguish them. A second
                        important difference between the Hathi Trust Digital Library and commercial
                        search engines is the absence of display advertising and "sponsored
                            search" results.


2.5.2.2. Preserving the Web
Preservation of web
                        resources is inherently problematic. Unlike libraries, museums,
                    archives, and many other kinds of organizing systems that contain collections of
                    unchanging resources, organizing systems on the web often contain resources that
                    are highly dynamic. Some websites change by adding content, and others change by
                    editing or removing it.
Comprehensive web search engines like
                        Google and Bing use
                        crawlers to continually update their indexed
                    collections of web pages and their search results link to the current version,
                    so preservation of older versions is explicitly not a goal. Furthermore, search
                    engines do not reveal any details about how frequently they update their
                    collections of indexed pages.
The Internet Archive and the "Wayback Machine"
The Internet Archive (Archive.org), founded
                        by Brewster Kahle, makes preservation of the web its first and foremost
                        activity, and when you enter a URI into its
                                "Wayback Machine" you can
                        see what a site looked like at different moments in time. For example,
                            www.berkeley.edu was archived about 2500 times between
                        October 1996 and January 2013, including about twice a week on average
                        during all of 2012. Even so, since a large site like
                            berkeley.edu often changes many times a day,
                        the Wayback Machine's preservation of
                            berkeley.edu is incomplete, and it only
                        preserves a fraction of the web's sites. Since 2006 the Internet
                            Archive has hosted the
                                "Archive-It" service to
                        enable hundreds of schools, libraries, historical societies, and other institutions to archive
                        collections of digital resources.


2.5.2.3. Preserving Resource Instances
A focus on preserving
                        particular resource instances is most clear in museums and
                    archives, where collections typically consist of unique and original items.
                    There are many copies and derivative works of the Mona
                        Lisa, but if the original Mona Lisa were
                    destroyed none of them would be acceptable as a replacement.

Archivists and historians argue that
                    it is essential to preserve original documents because they convey more
                    information than just their textual content. Paul Duguid recounts how a medical historian used faint smells of vinegar in
                    eighteenth century letters to investigate a cholera epidemic because
                    disinfecting letters with vinegar was thought to prevent the spread of the
                    disease. Obviously, the vinegar smell would not have been part of a digitized
                        letter.
Most business organizing systems,
                        especially those that "run the business" by supporting
                        day-to-day operations, are designed to preserve instances. These
                    include systems for order management, customer relationship management,
                    inventory management, digital asset management, record management, email
                    archiving, and more general-purpose document management. In all of these
                    domains, it is often necessary to retrieve specific information resources to
                    serve customers or to meet compliance or traceability goals.

2.5.2.4. Preserving Resource Types
"Shamu" the Killer Whale


This photo of
                                    "Shamu" was taken at one of the three Sea
                                    World marine parks in the US, but it does not matter which
                                    one because each of them has a killer whale (orca)
                                    performing there called Shamu. Similarly, it does not matter
                                    when this photo was taken because if a particular orca dies,
                                    it is replaced by another that also performs using Shamu as
                                    a stage name.
(Photo by Mike Saechang.
                                    Creative Commons CC BY-SA 2.0 license.)



Some business organizing systems are
                        designed to preserve types or classes of
                        resources rather than resource instances. In particular, systems
                    for content management typically organize a repository of reusable or
                        "source" information resources from which specific
                        "product" resources are then generated. For example,
                        content management systems might contain modular
                    information about a company's products that are assembled and delivered in sales
                    or product catalogs, installation guides, operating guides, or repair
                        manuals.
Libraries have a similar emphasis on preserving resource types
                    rather than instances. The bulk of most library collections, especially public
                    libraries, is made up of books that have many equivalent copies in other
                    collections. When a library has a copy of Moby Dick it is
                    preserving the abstract work rather than the particular physical
                        instance—unless the copy of
                        Moby Dick is a rare first edition signed by
                    Melville.
Even when zoos give their popular animals
                        individual names, it seems logical that the zoo's goal is to preserve animal species rather than instances
                        because any particular animal has a finite lifespan and cannot be preserved
                        forever.

2.5.2.5. Preserving Resource Collections
In some organizing
                        systems any specific resource might be of little interest or importance in
                        its own right but is valuable because of its membership in a collection of
                        essentially identical items. This is the situation in the data
                    warehouses used by businesses to identify trends in customer or transaction data
                    or in the huge data collections created by scientists. These collections are
                    typically analyzed as complete sets. A scientist does
                        not borrow a single data point when she accesses a data collection; she
                        borrows the complete data set consisting of millions or billions of data
                        points. This requirement raises difficult questions about what
                    additional software or equipment need to be preserved in an organizing system
                    along with the data to ensure that it can be reanalyzed.
Sometimes,
                        specific items in a collection might have some value or interest on their
                        own, but they acquire even greater significance and enhanced meaning because
                        of the context created by other items in the collection that are related in
                        some essential way. The odd collection of "things people
                        swallow that they should not" at the Mütter
                        Museum is a perfect example.


2.5.3. Curation
For almost a century curation has been used to
                describe the processes by which a resource in a collection is maintained over time,
                which may include actions to improve access or to restore or transform its
                representation or presentation. Furthermore, especially in cultural heritage collections, curation also
                includes research to identify, describe, and authenticate resources in a collection. Resource descriptions are
                often updated to reflect new knowledge or
                interpretations about the primary resources.
Curation takes
                    place in all organizing systems—at a personal scale when
                    we rearrange a bookshelf to accommodate new books or create new file folders for
                    this year's health insurance claims, at an institutional scale when a museum
                    designs a new exhibit or a zoo creates a new habitat, and at web scale when
                    people select photos to upload to Flickr or
                        Facebook and then tag or "Like"
                    those uploaded by others.
An individual, company, or any other creator of a website
                can make decisions and employ technology that maintains the contents, quality and
                character of the site over time. In that respect website curation and governance
                practices are little different than those for the organizing systems in memory
                institutions or business enterprises. The key to curation
                    is having clear policies for collecting resources and maintaining them over time
                    that enable people and automated processes to ensure that resource descriptions
                    or data are authoritative, accurate, complete, consistent, and
                    non-redundant.
2.5.3.1. Institutional Curation
Curation is most necessary and explicit in institutional
                        organizing systems where the large number of resources or their
                        heterogeneity requires choices to be made about which ones should be most
                        accessible, how they should be organized to ensure this access, and which
                        ones need most to be preserved to ensure continued accessibility over
                        time.
Curation might be thought of as an ongoing or deferred
                        selection activity because curation decisions must often be made on an
                        item-by-item basis.
Curation in these
                        institutional contexts requires extensive professional training.
The institutional authority empowers individuals or
                        groups to make curation decisions. No one questions whether a
                    museum curator or a compliance manager should be doing what they do.

2.5.3.2. Individual Curation
Curation by individuals has been studied a great
                        deal in the research discipline of Personal Information
                            Management (PIM). Much of this work has been influenced for decades by a seminal
                    article written by Vannevar Bush titled "As We
                            May Think." Bush envisioned the
                        Memex, "a device in which an individual
                        stores all his books, records, and communications, and which is mechanized
                        so that it may be consulted with exceeding speed and flexibility."
                    Bush's most influential idea was his proposal for organizing sets of related
                    resources as "trails" connected by associative links, the ancestor
                    of the hypertext links
                    that define today's web.

2.5.3.3. Social and Web Curation
Many individuals spend a great amount of time curating their own
                    websites, but when a site can attract large numbers of users, it often allows
                    users to annotate, "tag,"
"like,"
"+1," and otherwise evaluate its
                    resources. The concept of curation has recently
                    been adapted to refer to these volunteer efforts of individuals to create, maintain,
                    and evaluate web resources. The massive scale of these bottom-up and distributed activities is
                    curation by "crowdsourcing," the
                        continuously aggregated actions and contributions of users.
The informal and organic "folksonomies" that result from their aggregated effort create organization and authority through
                    network effects. This undermines traditional centralized mechanisms of organization
                    and governance and threatens any business model in publishing, education, and
                    entertainment that has relied on top-down control and professional curation.
                    Professional curators are not pleased to have the
                            ad hoc work of untrained
                        people working on websites described as curation.
Most websites are not curated in a
                        systematic way, and the decentralized nature of the web and its easy
                        extensibility means that the web as a whole defies curation. It is
                    easy to find many copies of the same document, image, music file, or video and
                    not easy to determine which is the original, authoritative or authorized
                    version. Broken links return "Error 404 Not Found"
                        messages.
Problems that result from lazy or
                        careless webmastering are minor compared to those that result from
                        deliberate misclassification, falsification, or malice.
An entirely new vocabulary has emerged to describe
                        these web resources with bad intent: "spam,"
"phishing,"
"malware,"
"fakeware,"
"spyware,"
"keyword stuffing,"
"spamdexing,"
"META tag abuse,"
"link farms,"
"cybersquatters,"
"phantom sites," and many more. Internet service providers, security software firms, email services,
                    and search engines are engaged in a constant war against these kinds of
                    malicious resources and techniques.
Since we cannot prevent these deceptions by controlling what
                    web resources are created in the first place, we have to defend ourselves from
                    them after the fact. "Defensive
                        curation" techniques include
                        filters and firewalls
                    that block access to particular sites or
                    resource types, but whether this is curation or
                        censorship is often debated, and from the
                    perspective of the government or organization doing the censorship it is
                    certainly curation. Nevertheless, the decentralized nature of the web and its
                    open protocols can sometimes enable these controls to be bypassed.

2.5.3.4. Computational Curation
Search engines continuously curate the web because the algorithms they use for
                        determining relevance and ranking determine
                    what resources people are likely to access. At a
                    smaller scale, there are many kinds of tools for managing the quality of a
                    website, such as ensuring that HTML content is valid, that
                    links work, and that the site is being crawled completely. Another familiar
                    example is the spam and content filtering that
                    takes place in our email systems that automatically
                        classifies incoming messages and sorts them into appropriate folders.
Computational curation is more predictable
                    than curation done by people, but search engines have
                    long been accused of bias built into their algorithms. For example,
                        Google's search engine has been criticized for
                    giving too much credibility to websites with .edu domain names, to
                    sites that have been around for a long time, or that are owned by or that
                    partner with the company, like Google Maps or
                        YouTube.
In organizing
                        systems that contain data, there are numerous tools for name
                            matching, the task of determining when
                            two different text strings denote the same person, object, or other
                            named entity.
This problem of eliminating
                        duplicates and establishing a controlled or authoritative version
                    of the data item arises in numerous application areas but familiar ones include
                        law-enforcement and
                        counter-terrorism. Done incorrectly, it might
                    mean that you end up on a "watch list" and experience difficulties
                    every time you want to fly on a commercial plane.
An extremely promising new approach to
                    computational curation involves using scientific measuring equipment to analyze
                    damaged physical resources and then building software models of the resources
                    that can be manipulated to restore the resources or otherwise improve access to
                    their content. For example, the first sound recordings were made using rotating
                    wax cylinders; sounds caused a diaphragm to vibrate, the pattern of vibration
                    was transferred into a connected stylus, which then cut a groove into the wax.
                    When the cylinder was rotated past a passive stylus, it would vibrate according
                    to the groove pattern, and the amplified vibrations could be heard as the
                    replayed sound. Unfortunately, wax cylinders from the 19th century are now so
                    fragile that they would fall apart if they were played. This dilemma was
                    resolved by 
                         Carl Haber, 
                    an experimental physicist at the
                    Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory. 
                    Haber used image processing techniques to convert 
                    microcope-detailed scans of the grooves in the wax cylinders. 
                    Measurements of the grooves could then be transformed to reproduce
                    the sounds captured in the grooves 
                    (see video of Haber 
                   explaining how this works). 
                         
                
A second example of computational curation applied to
                    digital preservation is work done by a research group 
                    led by Melissa Terras 
                    at University College London 
                    to build a 3-dimensional model of a 17th century
                    "Great Parchment Book" 
                    damaged in an 18th century fire. 
                    The parchment was singed, shriveled, creased, folded,
                    and nearly impossible to read
                    (see website). 
                    After traditional document restoration techniques
                    (e.g., illustrated in photos in §2.5.2) 
                    went as far as they could, 
                    the Terras team used digital image capture and modeling techniques to
                    create a software model of the parchment that could stretch and flatten the
                    digital document to discover text hidden by the damage. 


2.5.4. Governance
Governance 
                overlaps with
                curation in meaning,
                but typically has more of policy focus (what should be done), 
                rather than a process focus (how to do it). 
                Governance is also more frequently used to describe the curation of the resources 
                in business and scientific organizing systems rather than in libraries, archives, and museums.
                    Governance has a broader scope than curation because it extends beyond the
                    resources in a collection and also applies to the software, computing, and
                    networking environments needed to use them. 
                    This broader scope also means that
                    governance must specify the rights and responsibilities for the different types
                    of people who might interact with the resources,
                    the circumstances under which that might take place, 
                    and the methods they would
                    be allowed to use.
Corporate governance is a
                common term applied to the ongoing maintenance and
                    management of the relationship between operating
                practices and long-term strategic goals. Libraries and museums must also deal with
                long-term strategy, but the lesser visibility of library governance and museum governance might simply reflect the greater
                concerns about fraud and malfeasance in for-profit business contexts than in
                non-profit contexts and the greater number of standards or "best practices" for corporate
                    governance.
Data
                            governance policies are often shaped by
                laws, regulations or policies that prohibit the
                collection of certain kinds of objects or types of information. Privacy laws
                prohibit the collection or misuse of personally identifiable
                    information about healthcare, education, telecommunications, video
                rental, and might soon restrict the information collected during web browsing.
2.5.4.1. Governance in Business Organizing Systems
Governance is essential to deal with the frequent
                    changes in business organizing systems and the
                    associated activities of data quality
                    management, access control to ensure
                    security and privacy, compliance, deletion, and archiving. For many of these activities, effective governance
                    involves the design and implementation of standard services to ensure that the
                    activities are performed in an effective and consistent manner.
Stop and Think: Business Data Governance
Ebay, Target, and other large companies have had tens of millions of passwords, 
                        credit card numbers, and other sensitive personal information 
                        breached by hackers or security lapses. 
                        Consider a data breach you have heard of or experienced. 
                        What secure information was leaked? 
                        How might the business's governance policies and practices 
                        have affected the severity of the breach?  
                        What changes could the businesses make to protect people's data better?

Today's information-intensive businesses capture and create
                    large amounts of digital data. The concept of "business
                        intelligence" emphasizes the value of data in identifying strategic directions and the tactics to implement them
                    in marketing, customer
                        relationship management, supply chain
                        management and other information-intensive parts of the
                        business. A management aspect of governance in this domain is determining which resources and information will
                    potentially provide economic or competitive advantages and determining which
                    will not. A conceptual and technological aspect of governance is determining how
                    best to organize the useful resources and information in business operations and
                    information systems to secure the potential advantages.
Because digital data can be easily copied, data governance
                    policies might require that all sensitive data be anonymized or encrypted to reduce
                    the risk of privacy breaches. To identify the source of a data breach or to
                    facilitate the assertion of a copyright infringement claim a digital watermark
                    can be embedded in digital resources.

2.5.4.2. Governance in Scientific Organizing Systems
Scientific data poses
                        special governance
                        problems because of its enormous scale, which dwarfs the data sets managed
                        in most business organizing systems. A scientific data collection
                    might contain tens of millions of files and many petabytes of data. Furthermore,
                    because scientific data is often created using
                    specialized equipment or computers and undergoes complex
                        workflows, it can be necessary to curate the
                        technology and processing context along with data in order to
                    preserve it. An additional barrier to effective scientific data curation is the lack of incentives in scientific
                    culture and publication norms to invest in data
                        retention for reuse by others.
                        
The Long Tail of Dark Data
Almost all scientists admit that they are holding "dark
                            data," data that has never been published or otherwise made
                        available to the rest of the scientific community. There may only be a few
                        scientists worldwide that would want to see a particular data set, but there
                        are many thousands of these data sets. Other dark data comes from research
                        that fails to find effects; these are valid findings but because they are
                        less likely to be published, literature reviews can be skewed by their
                        omission. Just as Netflix makes the long tail of
                        movies available by separating inventory management from the point of sale,
                        perhaps dark data would become more accessible if it could be could easily
                        uploaded to a Netflix for Science. (Heidorn 2008)















Self-Review

Question









Answer




2.6. Key Points in Chapter Two
Switch to Quiz Mode
Which activities are common to all
                        organizing systems?

Selection, organizing, interaction
                            design, and maintenance
                        activities occur in every organizing system.
See §2.1, "Introduction"

Are selection, organizing, interaction design, and maintenance the same activities in every organizing
                        systems?

These activities are not identical in
                        every domain, but the general terms enable communication and learning about
                        domain-specific methods and vocabularies.
See §2.1, "Introduction"

What is the first decision to be made
                        when creating an organizing system?

The most fundamental decision for an organizing system is
                        determining its resource domain, the group or type of resources that are
                        being organized.
See §2.2, "Selecting Resources"

Does making selection principles
                        clear and consistent ensure that they are good ones?

Even when the selection
                            principles behind a collection are clear and consistent, they can be
                            unconventional, idiosyncratic, or otherwise biased.
See §2.2.2, "Selection Principles"

What is a resource property?

In this book we use
                        property
in a generic and ordinary sense as a synonym for 
                    feature
                    or "characteristic." 
                    Many cognitive and computer scientists are
                    more precise in defining these terms and reserve property for binary predicates (e.g.,
                    something is red or not, round or not, and so on). If multiple values are
                    possible, the property is called
                    an attribute,
"dimension," or "variable."
See §2.3, "Organizing Resources"

What is the relationship between
                        resource properties and organizing principles?

Most organizing systems
                            use principles that are based on specific resource properties or
                            properties derived from the collection as a whole.
See §2.3, "Organizing Resources"

What problems can arise when
                        arranging physical resources?

Some arrangements of physical resources are constrained or
                        precluded by resource properties that might cause problems for other
                        resources or for their users.
See §2.3.1.1, "Organizing with Properties of Physical Resources"

What factors affect the organization
                        of resources?

Multiple properties of the resources, the person
                        organizing or intending to use them, and the social and technological
                        environment in which they are being organized can collectively shape their
                        organization.
See §2.3.3, "Organizing with Multiple Resource Properties"

What is the fundamental tradeoff
                        faced when organizing physical resources?

The tradeoff between the amount of work that goes into
                        organizing a collection of resources and the amount of work required to find
                        and use them is inescapable when the resources are physical objects or
                        information resources are in physical form.
See §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"

What are affordance and
                        capability?

The concept of
                        affordance, introduced
                    by J. J. Gibson and then extended and popularized by Donald Norman, captures the idea that physical
                            resources and their environments have inherent actionable
                        properties that determine, in conjunction with an actor's capabilities and
                        cognition, what can be done with the resource.
See §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"

Does supporting more interactions
                        mean that an organizing system has more capability?

We should not assume that supporting more types of
                        interactions necessarily makes a system better or more capable; what matters
                        is how much value is created or invoked in each interaction.
See §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"

What is the basis of value creation
                        when interacting with a digital resource?

With digital resources, the essence of the interaction is
                        information exchange or symbolic manipulation of the information contained
                        in the resource.
See §2.4.2.2, "Value Creation with Digital Resources"

What factors improve the usability of
                        digital resources?

The variety and functions of interactions with digital
                        resources are determined by the amount of structure and semantics
                        represented in their digital encoding, in the descriptions associated with
                        the resources, or by the intelligence of the computational processes applied
                        to them.
See §2.4.2.2, "Value Creation with Digital Resources"

What is preservation?

Preservation of resources means maintaining them in
                        conditions that protect them from physical damage or deterioration.
See §2.5.2, "Preservation"

What is the relationship between
                        digitization and preservation?

Preservation is often a key motive for digitization, but
                        digitization alone is not preservation.
See §2.5.2.1, "Digitization and Preserving Resources"

What are curation and
                        governance?

The essence of curation and governance is having clear
                        policies for collecting resources and maintaining them over time that enable
                        people and automated processes to ensure that resource descriptions or data
                        are authoritative, accurate, complete, consistent, and non-redundant.
See §2.5.3, "Curation" and §2.5.4, "Governance"

What seminal article has influenced
                        the field of Personal Information Management for decades?

Personal Information Management has been influenced for
                        decades by a seminal article written by Vannevar Bush titled "As We May Think".
See §2.5.3.2, "Individual Curation"

What is the role of governance in
                        business organizing systems?

Governance is essential to deal with the frequent changes
                        in business organizing systems and the associated activities of data quality
                        management, access control to ensure security and privacy, compliance,
                        deletion, and archiving.
See §2.5.4.1, "Governance in Business Organizing Systems"

How is governance different in
                        scientific organizing systems?

Scientific data poses special governance problems because
                        of its enormous scale.
See §2.5.4.2, "Governance in Scientific Organizing Systems"

Selection, organizing, interaction
                            design, and maintenance
                        activities occur in every organizing system.
See §2.1, "Introduction"

These activities are not identical in
                        every domain, but the general terms enable communication and learning about
                        domain-specific methods and vocabularies.
See §2.1, "Introduction"

The most fundamental decision for an organizing system is
                        determining its resource domain, the group or type of resources that are
                        being organized.
See §2.2, "Selecting Resources"

Even when the selection
                            principles behind a collection are clear and consistent, they can be
                            unconventional, idiosyncratic, or otherwise biased.
See §2.2.2, "Selection Principles"

In this book we use
                        property
in a generic and ordinary sense as a synonym for 
                    feature
                    or "characteristic." 
                    Many cognitive and computer scientists are
                    more precise in defining these terms and reserve property for binary predicates (e.g.,
                    something is red or not, round or not, and so on). If multiple values are
                    possible, the property is called
                    an attribute,
"dimension," or "variable."
See §2.3, "Organizing Resources"

Most organizing systems
                            use principles that are based on specific resource properties or
                            properties derived from the collection as a whole.
See §2.3, "Organizing Resources"

Some arrangements of physical resources are constrained or
                        precluded by resource properties that might cause problems for other
                        resources or for their users.
See §2.3.1.1, "Organizing with Properties of Physical Resources"

Multiple properties of the resources, the person
                        organizing or intending to use them, and the social and technological
                        environment in which they are being organized can collectively shape their
                        organization.
See §2.3.3, "Organizing with Multiple Resource Properties"

The tradeoff between the amount of work that goes into
                        organizing a collection of resources and the amount of work required to find
                        and use them is inescapable when the resources are physical objects or
                        information resources are in physical form.
See §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"

The concept of
                        affordance, introduced
                    by J. J. Gibson and then extended and popularized by Donald Norman, captures the idea that physical
                            resources and their environments have inherent actionable
                        properties that determine, in conjunction with an actor's capabilities and
                        cognition, what can be done with the resource.
See §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"

We should not assume that supporting more types of
                        interactions necessarily makes a system better or more capable; what matters
                        is how much value is created or invoked in each interaction.
See §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"

With digital resources, the essence of the interaction is
                        information exchange or symbolic manipulation of the information contained
                        in the resource.
See §2.4.2.2, "Value Creation with Digital Resources"

The variety and functions of interactions with digital
                        resources are determined by the amount of structure and semantics
                        represented in their digital encoding, in the descriptions associated with
                        the resources, or by the intelligence of the computational processes applied
                        to them.
See §2.4.2.2, "Value Creation with Digital Resources"

Preservation of resources means maintaining them in
                        conditions that protect them from physical damage or deterioration.
See §2.5.2, "Preservation"

Preservation is often a key motive for digitization, but
                        digitization alone is not preservation.
See §2.5.2.1, "Digitization and Preserving Resources"

The essence of curation and governance is having clear
                        policies for collecting resources and maintaining them over time that enable
                        people and automated processes to ensure that resource descriptions or data
                        are authoritative, accurate, complete, consistent, and non-redundant.
See §2.5.3, "Curation" and §2.5.4, "Governance"

Personal Information Management has been influenced for
                        decades by a seminal article written by Vannevar Bush titled "As We May Think".
See §2.5.3.2, "Individual Curation"

Governance is essential to deal with the frequent changes
                        in business organizing systems and the associated activities of data quality
                        management, access control to ensure security and privacy, compliance,
                        deletion, and archiving.
See §2.5.4.1, "Governance in Business Organizing Systems"

Scientific data poses special governance problems because
                        of its enormous scale.
See §2.5.4.2, "Governance in Scientific Organizing Systems"












Chapter 3. Resources in Organizing SystemsRobert J. GlushkoDaniel D. TurnerKimra McPhersonJess Hemerly
3.1. Introduction
This chapter builds upon the foundational concepts introduced in Chapter 1 to explain more carefully what we mean by
                resource. In particular, we focus on the issue of
                identity—what will be treated as a separate
                resource—and discuss the issues and principles we need to
            consider when we give each resource a name or identifier.
In §3.2, "Four Distinctions about Resources" we introduce four distinctions we can
            make when we discuss resources: domain,
                format, 
            agency, and 
            focus. In
                §3.3, "Resource Identity" we apply these distinctions as we discuss how resource
            identity is determined for physical resources, 
            bibliographic resources, resources in information systems, as well as for 
            active resources and
                    smart things.
§3.4, "Naming Resources" then tackles the problems and principles for naming: once
            we have identified resources, how do we name and distinguish them? Finally, §3.5, "Resources over Time" considers issues that emerge with respect to resources over
            time.
3.1.1. What Is a Resource?
Resources are what we organize.
We introduced the concept of resource in §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource""
                with its ordinary sense of "anything of value that can support goal-oriented
                    activity" and emphasized that a group of resources can be treated as a
                    collection in an organizing system. And what do we mean by
                    "anything of value," exactly? It might seem that the question of
                    identity, 
                of what a single resource is, should not
                be hard to answer. After all, we live in a world of resources, and finding, selecting,
                    describing, arranging, and referring to them are
                everyday activities.
Nevertheless, even when the resources we are dealing with are
                    tangible things, how we go about organizing them is not
                always obvious, or at least not obvious to each of us in the same way at all times.
                Not everyone thinks of them in the same way. Recognizing something in the sense of
                perceiving it as a tangible thing is only the first step toward
                being able to organize it and other resources like it. Which properties garner our
                attention, and which we use in organizing depends on our experiences, purposes, and
                context.
We add
                        information to a resource when we name
                        it or describe it; it then becomes
                    more than "it."
We can describe the same resource in many different ways.
                    At various times we can consider any given resource to be one of many members of
                    a broad category, as one of the few members of a narrow category, or as a unique
                    instance of a category with only one member. For example, we might
                recognize something as a piece of clothing, as a sock, or as the specific dirty sock
                with the hole worn in the heel from yesterday's long hike. However, even after we
                categorize something, we might not be careful how we talk about it; we often refer
                to two objects as "the same thing" when what we mean is that they are
                    "the same type of thing." Indeed, we could debate whether a
                category with only one possible member is really a category, because it blurs an
                important distinction between particular items or instances and the class or type to
                which they belong.
The issues that matter and the decisions we need to make about
                resource instances and resource classes and types are not completely separable.
                Nevertheless, we will strive to focus on the former ones in this chapter and the
                latter ones in Chapter 6, "Categorization: Describing Resource Classes and Types".
3.1.1.1. Resources with Parts
As tricky as it can be to decide what
                        a resource is when you are dealing with single objects, it is even more
                        challenging when the resources are objects or systems composed of other
                        parts. In these cases, we must focus on the entirety of the object
                    or system and treat it as a resource, treat its constituent parts as resources,
                    and deal with the relationships between the parts and the whole, as we do with
                    engineering drawings and assembly procedures.
How Many Things is a Chess Set?


A chess set exemplifies
                                        the many different ways to decide what to count as a
                                        separate resource. Is this a chess set, two sets of chess
                                        pieces, six types of chess pieces (1 king, 1 queen, 2 rooks,
                                        2 bishops, 2 knights, 8 pawns for each side), or 33 separate
                                        things (the 32 pieces and a board on which to play the
                                        game)?

(Photo by Emma Jane Hogbin Westby. 
                                    Creative Commons CC-BY-2.0 license.)



How many
                    things is a car? If you are imagining the
                    car being assembled you might think of several dozen large parts like the frame,
                    suspension, drive train, gas tank, brakes, engine, exhaust system, passenger
                    compartment, doors, and other pre-assembled components. Of course, each of those
                    components is itself made up of many parts—think of the
                    engine, or even just the radio. Some sources have counted ten or fifteen
                    thousand parts in the average car, but even at that precise granularity a lot of
                    parts are still complex things. There are screws and wires and fasteners and on
                    and on; really too many to count.
Ambiguity about the number of parts in the
                    whole holds for information resources too; a newspaper can be considered a
                    single resource but it might also consist of multiple sections, each of which
                    contains separate stories, each of which has many paragraphs, and so on. From the typesetter's point of view, each character in a
                        sentence can be taken as a distinct resource, selected from a font of
                        similar resources.
Similarly, while a web page can be treated as a single resource, it can also be considered as a collection of more granular parts, each of which can be separately identified as the source or anchor of a link. 

3.1.1.2. Bibliographic Resources, Information Components, and "Smart
                        Things" as Resources
Information resources generally pose additional challenges in
                    their identification and description because their most important property is usually their
                    content, which is not easily and consistently recognizable. Organizing systems for information resources in physical
                        form, like those for libraries, have to juggle the duality of their tangible
                        embodiment with what is inherently an abstract information resource; that
                        is, the printed book versus the knowledge the book contains. Here,
                    the organizing system emphasizes description resources or surrogates, like
                    bibliographic records that describe the information content, rather than their
                    physical properties.
Another question about resource that is
                    especially critical in libraries is: What set of
                        resources should be treated as the same work because they contain essentially similar intellectual
                        or artistic content? We may talk about Shakespeare's play Macbeth, but what is
                    this thing we call "Macbeth"? Is it a particular string of words,
                    saved in a computer file or handwritten upon a folio? Is it the collection of
                    words printed with some predetermined font and pagination? Are all the editions
                    and printings of these words the same Macbeth? How should we organize the
                    numerous live and recorded performances of plays and movies that share the
                        Macbeth name? What about creations based on or
                    inspired by Macbeth that do not share the title
                        "Macbeth," like the
                        Kurosawa film "Kumonosu-jo"
                        (Throne of Blood) that transposes the plot to feudal
                    Japan? 
Patrick Wilson 
                    proposed a genealogical analogy, characterizing a work as "a group or family of
                        texts," with the idea that a creation like Shakespeare's Macbeth is the
                        "ancestor of later members of the family."
Similar questions about resource identity are posed by the emergence
                    of ubiquitous or pervasive computing, in which
                        information processing capability and
                        connectivity are embedded into
                        physical objects, in devices like smart
                        phones, and in the surrounding environment. 
                    
                    Equipped with sensors, radio-frequency identification
                            (RFID) tags,
                        GPS data, and user-contributed metadata, these
                            smart things 
                    create a jumbled torrent of information about location and other properties that must be sorted
                    into identified streams and then matched or associated with the original
                    resource.
§3.3, "Resource Identity" discusses the issues and methods
                    for determining "what is a resource?" for physical
                    resources, as well as for the bibliographic resources, information components and
                        smart things discussed
                    here, in §3.1.1.1, "Resources with Parts".


3.1.2. Identity, Identifiers, and Names
The answer to the question posed in §3.1.1, "What Is a Resource?" has
                two parts. 
The first part is identity: what thing are we
                            treating as the resource? 

The second part is identification: differentiating between this single resource and other
                            resources like it.
 These problems are closely related. Once you have decided what to
                treat as a resource, you create a name or an identifier so that you can refer to it
                reliably. A name is
                        a label for a resource that is used to distinguish one from
                        another.


An identifier is a special
                        kind of name assigned in a controlled manner and governed by rules that
                        define possible values and naming conventions.
For a digital resource, its
                    identifier serves as the input to the system or function that determines its
                    location so it can be retrieved, a process called resolving
                    the identifier or resolution.
Choosing names and
                    identifiers—be it for a person, a service, a
                place, a trend, a work, a document, a concept, etc.—is hardly
                straightforward. In fact, naming can often be challenging and is often highly
                contentious. Naming is made difficult by countless factors,
                    including the audience that will need to access, share, and use the names, the
                    limitations of language, institutional politics, and personal and cultural
                    biases.
A common complication arises when a resource has
                more than one name or identifier. When something has more
                    than one name each of the multiple names is a synonym or alias. A particular physical instance of a book
                might be called a hardcover or paperback or simply a text. 
                
George Furnas and his research collaborators called this issue of multiple names
                    for the same resource or concept the vocabulary problem.
Whether we call it a book or a text, the resource will usually have a
                Library of Congress catalog number as well as an ISBN as an
                    identifier. When the book is in a carton of books being shipped
                from the publisher to a bookstore or library, that carton will have a bar-coded
                tracking number assigned by the delivery service, and a manifest or receipt document
                created by the publisher whose identifier associates the shipment with the customer.
                Each of these identifiers is unique with respect to some established scope or
                context.
A partial solution to the vocabulary problem is to use a controlled vocabulary. We can
                impose rules that standardize the way in which names and labels for resources are
                assigned in the first place. Alternatively, we can define mappings from terms used
                in our natural language to the authoritative or controlled terms. However,
                vocabulary control cannot remove all ambiguity. Even if a passport or national
                identity system requires authoritative full names rather than nicknames, there could
                easily be more than one Robert John Smith in the system.
Controlling the language used for a
                particular purpose raises other questions: Who writes and enforces these rules? What
                happens when organizing systems that follow different rules get compared, combined,
                or otherwise brought together in contexts different from those for which they were
                originally intended?













3.2. Four Distinctions about Resources
The nature of the resource is critical for the creation and
            maintenance of quality organizing systems. There are four
                distinctions we make in discussing resources: 
                domain, 
                format,
                agency, and 
                focus.
Figure 3.1, "Resource Domain, Format, Focus and Agency." depicts these four distinctions, perspectives or
            points of view on resources; because they are not independent, we cannot portray these
            distinctions as categories of resources.
Figure 3.1. Resource Domain, Format, Focus and Agency.

Four distinctions we can make when
                            discussing resources concern their domain (their type of matter or
                            content), format (physical or digital), agency (active or passive), and
                            focus (primary or description).


3.2.1. Resource Domain
Every resource 
                    has some essence or type that distinguishes it from other
                        resources, which we call the resource domain.
Domain is an
                    intuitive notion that we can help define by contrasting it with the alternative
                    of ad hoc or arbitrary groupings
                    of resources that just happen to be in the same place at some moment, rather
                    than being based on natural or intrinsic characteristics.
For physical resources, domains can be
                coarsely distinguished according to the type of matter of which
                they are made using properties that can be readily perceived. 
 The top-level classification of all things into the animal,
                    vegetable, and mineral kingdoms by Carl Linnaeus in 1735 is today deeply
                    embedded in most languages and cultures to create a hierarchical system of
                    domain categories.
Many aspects of this system of domain categories are determined by
                    natural constraints on category membership that are manifested in patterns of
                    shared properties; once a resource is identified as a member of one category it
                    must also be a member of another with which it shares some but not all
                    properties. For example, a marble statue in a museum must also be a
                kind of material resource, and a fish in an aquarium must also be a kind of animal
                resource.
For information resources, easily perceived properties are
                less reliable and correlated, so we more often distinguish domains based on semantic
                properties; the definitions of the "encyclopedia,"
"novel," and "invoice" resource types distinguish them
                according to their typical subject matter, or the type of content, rather than
                according to the great variety of physical forms in which we might encounter them.
                Arranging books by color or size might be sensible for very
                small collections, or in a photo studio, but organizing according to physical
                properties would make it extremely impractical to find books in a large
                library.

We can arrange types of information resources
                    in a hierarchy but because the category boundaries are not sharp it is more
                    useful to view domains of information resources on a continuum from
                    weakly-structured narrative content to highly structured transactional
                    content. This framework, called the Document Type Spectrum
                by Glushko and McGrath, captures the idea that the boundaries between resource
                domains, like those between colors in the rainbow, are easy to see for colors far
                apart in the spectrum but hard to see for adjacent ones.
                (See the sidebar, The Document Type Spectrum,
                    and its corresponding depiction as Figure 3.2, "Document Type Spectrum.")
The Document Type Spectrum
Different domains or types of documents can be distinguished
                    according to the extent to which their content is semantically prescribed, by
                    the amount of internal structure, and by the correlations of their presentation
                    and formatting to their content and structure. These three characteristics of
                    content, structure, and presentation vary systematically from narrative document
                    types like novels to transactional document types like invoices.
Narrative types are authored by people and are
                    heterogeneous in structure and content, and their content is usually just prose
                    and graphic elements. Their presentational characteristics carefully reinforce
                    their structure and semantics; for example, the text of titles or major headings
                    is large because the content is important, in contrast to the small text of
                    footnotes. Transactional document types are usually created mechanically and, as
                    a result, are homogeneous in structure and content; their content is largely
                        "data"
—strongly typed content with precise semantics that can
                    be processed by computers.
In the middle of the spectrum are hybrid document types like
                    textbooks, encyclopedias, and technical manuals that contain a mixture of
                    narrative text and structured content in figures, data tables, code examples,
                    and so on.

Figure 3.2. Document Type Spectrum.

The Document Type Spectrum
                                represents the idea that document types vary on a continuum from
                                narrative ones that are mostly text, like novels, to transactional
                                ones with highly-structured information, like invoices. In between
                                are hybrid types that contain both narrative and transactional
                                content, like dictionaries and encyclopedias.



3.2.2. Resource Format
Information resources can exist in numerous formats with the most
                    basic format distinction being whether the resource is physical or
                    digital. This distinction is most important when it comes to the
                implementation of a resource storage or preservation system because that is where physical
                properties are usually considerations, and very possibly constraints. This
                distinction is less important at the logical level when we design interactions with resources because it is often possible to use
                digital surrogates for the physical resources to overcome the
                constraints posed by their physical properties. When we search for cars or appliances in an online store
                it does not matter where the actual cars or appliances are located or how they are
                    physically organized. (See the
                    sidebar, The Three Tiers of Organizing Systems).
Many digital representations can be associated with either
                physical or digital resources, but it is important to know which one is the original
                or primary resource, especially for unique or valuable ones.
Today a great many resources in organizing systems are
                            born
                    digital. They are created in word processors and
                    digital cameras, or by audio and video
                    recorders. Other resources are produced in digital form by the many
                types of sensors in "smart
                    things" and by the systems that create
                    digital resources when they interact with
                barcodes, QR ("quick response")
                codes, RFID tags, or other mechanisms for tracking identity and location.
In
                    contrast to original digital resources, some are created by digitization, the process for transforming an artifact whose original format is
                            physical so that it can be stored and manipulated by a
                        computer. We can digitize the printed word, photographs,
                blueprints and record albums. Printed text, for example, can be digitized by
                scanning the pages and employing character recognition software or simply by
                re-typing it.
There are a vast number of digital formats that differ in many ways, but we can
                    coarsely compare them on two dimensions: the degree to which they distinguish
                    information content from presentation or rendering, and the explicitness with
                    which content distinctions are represented. Taken together, these two dimensions
                    allow us to compare formats on their overall "Information IQ"
—with the overarching principle being that
                        "smarter" formats contain more computer-processable
                    information, as illustrated in Figure 3.3, "Information IQ."

Simple digital formats for "plain text" documents contain
                only the characters that you see on your computer keyboard. ASCII is
                the most commonly used simple format, but ASCII is inadequate for
                most languages, which have larger character sets, and it also cannot handle
                mathematical characters. The Unicode standard was designed to overcome these
                    limitations.
                (ASCII and Unicode are discussed in great detail in §8.3.1, "Notations".)
Figure 3.3. Information IQ.

The notion of Information IQ
                                captures the idea that document formats differ on two dimensions.
                                One is the explicitness of content representation, and the other is
                                the separation of content and presentation. A scanned document is
                                just a picture of a document that does not reveal any of these
                                distinctions, so it is low on both dimensions. A database or XML
                                document distinguishes explicitly between types of content and any
                                presentation is separately assigned to them, so they are high on
                                both dimension and hence have the highest Information IQ. An HTML
                                document has explicit distinctions between types of content, but the
                                distinctions are usually about how the content is presented and thus
                                has lower IQ than an XML document or a database. Formats with high
                                Information IQ are easily and usefully processed by
                                computers.


Most document formats also explicitly
                    encode a hierarchy of structural components,
                such as chapters, sections or semantic components like descriptions or procedural steps, and sometimes the appearance of the
                rendered or printed form. Another important distinction to note is whether the information is
                encoded as a sequence of text characters so that it is human readable as well as
                computer readable. Encoding character content with XML, for
                example, allows for layering of intentional coding or markup
                interwoven with the "plain text" content. Because XML
                processors are required to support Unicode, any character can appear in an
                    XML document. The most complex digital formats are those for
                multimedia resources and multidimensional data, where the data format is highly
                optimized for specialized analysis or applications.
Digitization of non-text resources such as
                        film photography, drawings, and
                        analog audio and visual recordings
                    raises a complicated set of choices about pixel
                    density, color depth, sampling rate, frequency filtering, compression, and
                    numerous other technical issues that determine the digital
                    representation. There may be multiple intended uses and devices for the digitized
                resource that might require different digitization approaches and formats. Moreover,
                downstream users of digitized resources often need to know the format in which the
                digital artifact has been created so they can reuse
                it as is or process it in other ways.
Some digital formats support interactions that are qualitatively different and more
                powerful than those possible with physical resources. Museums are using virtual
                world technology to create interactive exhibits in
                which visitors can fly through the solar system, scan their own bodies, and change
                gravity so they can bounce off walls. Sophisticated digital document formats can
                enable interactions with annotated digital images or video, 3-D graphics or embedded
                data sets. The Google Art Project contains extremely
                    high resolution photographs of famous paintings that make it possible to see
                    details that are undetectable under the normal viewing conditions in
                    museums.
Nevertheless, digital representations of physical
                resources can also lose important information and capabilities. The distinctive
                sounds of hip hop music produced by "scratching" vinyl records on
                turntables cannot be produced from digital MP3 music files.
Copyright often presents
                    a barrier to digitization, both as a matter of
                    law and because digitization itself enables copyright
                        enforcement to a degree not possible prior to the advent of
                    digitization, by eliminating common forms of access and interactions that are
                    inherently possible with physical printed books like the ability to give or sell
                    them to someone else.

3.2.3. Resource Agency
Agency
 is the extent to which a resource can initiate actions on its
                        own. We can define a continuum between completely passive
                    resources that cannot initiate any actions and active resources that can
                    initiate actions based on information they sense from their environments or
                    obtain through interactions with other resources. A book being read at
                the beach will grow warm from absorbing the sun's energy but it has no way of
                measuring its temperature and is a completely passive resource. An ordinary
                    mercury thermometer senses and displays the temperature but
                is not capable of communicating its own reading,
                whereas a digital wireless
                        thermometer or "weather station"
                can.
Passive resources serve as
                    nouns or operands that are acted upon, while active resources serve as verbs or
                    operants that cause and carry out actions. We need a concept of agency to bring
                    resources that are active information sources, or computational in character,
                    into the organizing system framework. This concept also lets us include living
                    resources, or more specifically, humans, into discussions about organizing
                    systems in a more general way that emphasizes their agency and de-emphasizes
                    other human characteristics that could otherwise be
                    distracting.
3.2.3.1. Passive or Operand Resources
Organizing systems that contain passive or operand resources are
                    ubiquitous for the simple reason that we live in a world of physical resources
                    that we identify and name in order to interact with them. Passive
                                resources are usually tangible and static and
                        thus they become valuable only as a result of some action or
                            interaction with them.
Most organizing systems with physical
                    resources or those that contain resources that are digitized equivalents treat
                    those resources as passive. A printed book on a library shelf, a digital book in
                    an ebook reader, a statue in a museum gallery, or a case of beer in a
                    supermarket refrigerator only create value when they are checked out, viewed, or
                    consumed. None of these resources exhibits any agency and cannot initiate any
                    actions to create value on their own.

3.2.3.2. Active or Operant Resources
Active
                            resources create effects or value
                        on their own, sometimes when they initiate interactions with passive
                        resources. Active resources can be people,
                            other living resources, computational
                            agents, active information
                            sources, web-based services,
                            self-driving cars,
                            robots,
                        appliances, machines
                        or otherwise ordinary objects like light bulbs, umbrellas, and shoes that
                        have been made "smarter." We can exploit computing
                    capability, storage capacity, and communication bandwidth to create active
                    resources that can do things and support interactions that are impossible for
                    ordinary physical passive resources. 
Active Resources: The Nest Thermostat "Ecosystem"


These two screenshots
                                        of the Nest iPad app show the thermostat control panel and
                                        an energy history report with a pop-up note explaining that
                                        resetting the temperature resulted in higher than average
                                        energy use on that day. The Nest thermostat serves as a hub
                                        device, communicating with lights, appliances, smoke alarms,
                                        your car, your wearable fitness sensor, and other active resources
                                            (https://nest.com/works-with-nest/).

(Screenshots by 
                                    Andrea Angquist. 
                                    Used with permission.)



We can analyze active resources according to five capabilities 
                    that progressively increase their agency.  
                    These capabilities build on each other to give resources 
                    and the organizing systems in which they participate 
                    more ways to create value through interactions and information exchanges.
Sensing or awarenessThe minimal capability for a resource to have some agency is for it to be able
                                to sense or be aware of some aspect of its environment or its
                                interactions with other resources. A thermometer measures
                                temperature, a photodetector measures light, a gauge measures the
                                fuel left in a car's gas tank, a GPS device computes its location
                                after detecting and analyzing signals from satellites, a wearable
                                fitness sensor tracks your heartbeat and how far you walk. But sensing something in
                                itself does not create any value in an organizing system. Something
                                needs to be done. ActuationA resource has the capability to actuate when it can create effects or value
                                by initiating some action as a result of the information it senses;
                                    "actuator" is often used to describe a resource
                                that can move or control a physical mechanism or system, while
                                    "effector" is used when the resource is a
                                biological one. Resources can actuate by turning on lights,
                                speakers, cameras, motors, switches, by sending a message about the
                                state or value of a sensor, or by moving themselves around (as is
                                the case for robots). 
A potential or latent actuation is created 
                                    when a resource can display or broadcast some aspect of its state, 
                                    but  value is only created if another resource (possibly a human one) 
                                    happens to see the display or hear the broadcast 
                                    and then acts upon this information.
                                
For example, RFID chips, which are essentially 
                                    bar codes 
                                    with built-in radio transponders, 
                                    can be attached to otherwise passive resources to make them active.  
                                    RFID chips begin transmitting when they detect the presence of a RFID reading device.  
                                    This enables automated location tracking 
                                    and context sensing. 
                                    RFID receivers are built into assembly lines, loading docks, 
                                    parking lots, toll booths, or store shelves to detect when some
                                    RFID-tagged resource is at some meaningful location.
                                    RFID tags can be made more useful by having them
                                    record and transmit information from sensors that detect temperature, humidity,
                                    acceleration, and even biological contamination.
                                 ConnectivityFor an active resource to do useful work it must be connected in some way to
                                the actuation mechanism that manipulates or controls some other
                                resource. This connection might be a direct and permanent one
                                between the resource and the thing it actuates, like that of a
                                thermostat whose temperature sensing capability has a fixed
                                connection to a heating or cooling system that it turns off or
                                on depending on the temperature. 
An important innovation in the design of
                                active resources is "wrapping" physical resources with
                                software so they can be given IP addresses and make connections with
                                Internet protocols, which allows them to send information to an
                                application with more capability to act on it. Such resources are
                                said to be part of the "Internet of Things."
Smart phones are active resources that can
                                    identify and share their own location, orientation, acceleration and a
                                    growing number of other contextual parameters to enable personalization of
                                    information services. Smart phones can also run the applications 
                                    that receive messages from and send messages to other smart resources 
                                    to monitor and optimize how they work.
Computation or programmabilitySimple active resources 
                                operate in a deterministic manner: given this sensor
                                reading, do this. Other active resources have computational
                                capabilities that enable them to analyze the information from
                                their sensors and adapt their behavior accordingly. 
Many thermostats are programmable, but most people do not bother to program
                        them so they miss out on potential energy savings. 
                        Nest Labs makes a 
                        learning thermostat 
                        that programs itself. 
                        The Nest thermostat uses sensors for
                        temperature, humidity, motion, and light 
                        to figure out whether people are at home, 
                        and a Wi-fi connection to get local weather data
                        (Crawford and Johnson, 2012). 
                            
                        
                             
                                The Roomba
                                vacuum cleaning robot navigates around furniture, power
                                cords, stairs, and optimizes its cleaning paths to go over
                                particularly dirty places. But vacuuming is all it does. 
                                More sophisticated robots are designed to be versatile and
                                adaptable so they can repetitively perform whatever task is
                                needed for some manufacturing process, and their capabilities can be
                                continually upgraded by software updates, just like the apps on
                                your smart phone.  A new generation of robots typified by one called Baxter can be trained by example; a person moves Baxter's arms and hands to show him what to do, and when Baxter has programmed himself to repeat it, he nods.Composability and cooperatingThe "smartest" active resources can do more than analyze the
                                information they collect and adapt what they do. In addition, they
                                expose what they know and can do to other resources using standard
                                or non-proprietary formats and protocols. This means that active
                                resources that were independently designed and implemented can work
                                together to create value. 
Many organizing systems on the web 
                                    consist of collections 
                                    or configurations of active digital resources. 
                                    Interactions among these active resources 
                                    often implement information-intensive business models 
                                    where value is created by
                                    exchanging, manipulating, 
                                    transforming, 
                                    or otherwise processing information, 
                                    rather   than by manipulating, transforming, 
                                    or otherwise processing physical resources.

We are beginning to see the same principles of modularity and composability applied to physical resources, 
                        with open source software libraries for using sensors and micro-controllers and easy to use APIs. 
                        In essence, we are using software and physical resources in much the same way as functional building blocks, 
                        and standards will be critically important.  

Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) 
                        is an emerging design discipline for organizing 
                            active software resources as
                            functional business components 
                            that can be combined in different ways.
SOA is generally implemented using web services 
                        that exchange XML documents 
                        in real-time information flows to
                        interconnect the business service components.

A familiar design pattern for an organizing system composed from
                        active digital resources is the
                            "online store." The store can be
                    analyzed as a composition or choreography in
                    which some web pages display catalog items, others serve as "shopping
                        carts" to assemble the order, and
                    then a "checkout" page collects the
                    buyer's payment and delivery information that gets passed on to other
                        service providers who process payments and deliver the
                        goods. 
If This, Then That
IFTTT is a
                        visual programming system that lets non-programmers connect and control
                        active resources in the physical and digital worlds. IFTTT
                        programs, called recipes, can take information from a growing library of
                        Internet services (date/time, calendar, weather, news, email, social media,
                        and many others) and use this information with simple control logic to
                        trigger actions in other services or resources. Example recipes can copy any
                        Instagram or Facebook photo to Google Drive, add daily Fitbit data to a
                        spreadsheet, or control lights or home appliances based on time, weather, or
                        sunset. 



"If sunset then electrical outlet on." The icon
                                        on the left is the trigger; the icon on the right is the
                                        action.
(Photo by R. Glushko)



Design patterns for composing organizing
                    systems from "smart" physical resources are emerging in work on the
                        "smart home,"
"smart office building," or "smart city." Many
                    experiments are underway and new products emerging that are trying out different
                    combinations of hardware and software to understand the design tradeoffs between
                    them to best determine where the "smarts" should go. For example,
                    we can compare a "smart home" built around a super-intelligent hub
                    device that communicates and coordinates with many other "not so
                        smart" devices from the same manufacturer to one in which all of the
                    devices are equally smart and come from different makers. 
At more complex scales, 
                        a truly smart building will not just have programmable thermostats 
                        that control a basement full of heating and cooling systems.  
                        It will take in weather forecasts, travel calendars, 
                        information about the cost of electricity from different sources, 
                      and other relevant information as inputs to a model of how the building heats and cools 
                        to optimize energy use and cost while keeping the building at an appropriate temperature.
Having open and standard interfaces 
                        enables active resources to interact with people to get information 
                        that might otherwise come from sensors or that enhances the value of the sensor information.  
                        A programmable thermostat that can record time-based preferences 
                        of the people who live in or use the space controlled by the thermostat 
                        is more capable than one with just a single temperature threshold.  
                        A standard Internet protocol for communicating with the thermostat 
                        would enable it to be controlled remotely using a Smartphone.
Open and standard data formats and communication protocols
                        enable the aggregation and analysis of information from many instances of the same type of active resource.  For example, smart phones running the Google Maps application transmit information about their speed and location.  Machine learning and sophisticated optimization techniques of this large dataset can yield collective intelligence that can then be pushed back into the resources 
                        from which it was derived.  In this case, Google can identify traffic jams and generate alternative routes 
                        for the drivers stuck in the slow traffic.
                    
Stop and Think: The Internet of Things
There is a great deal of hype about the Internet of Things, but there is
                        also a great deal of innovation in giving resources new capabilities to
                        sense and communicate about their environments. If you search for the phrase
                            "Internet of Things" along with almost any physical
                        resource, chances are you will find something, Try "baby,"
"dog,"
"fork,"
"lettuce,"
"pajamas,"
"streetlamp," and then a few of your own. 

But not everything can be done best by computers. The web has enabled the novel
                        application of human resources as
                        active
                            resources to carry out tasks of
                        short duration that can be precisely described but which cannot be done
                        reliably by computers. These tasks include image classification or annotation,
                        spoken language
                            transcription, and sentiment analysis.
                         
                        The people doing these tasks over the web are sometimes called
                        "Mechanical
                            Turks" by analogy to a fake
                        chess playing
                            machine from the 18th century
                        that had a human hidden inside who was secretly moving the pieces.
                    


3.2.4. Resource Focus
A fourth contrast
                between types of resources distinguishes original or primary
                        resources from resources that describe them. Any primary resource can
                    have one or more description
                        resources associated with it to facilitate finding, interacting
                    with, or interpreting the primary one.
                            Description resources are essential in
                    organizing systems where the primary resources are not under its control and can
                    only be accessed or interacted with through the description. Description resources are
                    often called metadata.
The distinction
                    between primary
                        resources and description resources, or metadata, is deeply embedded in library science and traditional
                    organizing systems whose collections are predominantly text resources like
                    books, articles, or other documents. In these contexts description resources are
                    commonly called bibliographic resources or catalogs, and each primary resource
                    is typically associated with one or more description resources.
In business enterprises, the organizing systems
                for digital information resources, such as business documents, or data records
                created by transactions or automated processes, almost always employ resources that
                describe, or are associated with, large sets or classes of primary
                    resources.
The contrast between
                        primary resources
                    and description
                        resources is very useful in many contexts, but when we look more
                    broadly at organizing systems, it is often difficult to distinguish them, and
                    determining which resources are primary and which are metadata is often just a decision about
                    which resource is currently the focus of our
                    attention.
For example, many people who use Twitter
                focus on the 140-character message body as the primary resource, while the
                associated metadata about the sender and the message (is it a forward, reply, link,
                and so on?) is less important to them. However, for firms in the growing ecosystem
                of services that use Twitter metadata to measure sender
                and brand impact, identify social networks, and assess trends, the focus is on the
                metadata, not the message content.
As another example, 
                
                the players on professional sports teams are
                    human resources that we enjoy watching as they compete, but
                millions of people participate in fantasy
                        sports leagues where teams consist of fantasy players
                that are simulated resources based on the statistics generated by the
                    actual human players. Put another way, the associated
                resources in the actual sports are treated as the primary ones in the fantasy
                    leagues.
Fantasy Football


This fantasy football team
                                    roster consists of players from many actual NFL teams. The
                                    outcome of games in a fantasy league is calculated using the
                                    performance statistics of the actual players in actual games.
                                    The standings of teams in fantasy leagues are of course
                                    description resources associated with the fantasy
                                    players.

(Photo by 
                                Corey Hyllested.
                                    Used with permission).




3.2.5. Resource Format x Focus
Applying the format contrast between
                physical and digital resources to the focus distinction between primary and
                descriptive resources yields a useful framework with four categories of resources (see Figure 3.4, "Resource Format x Focus.").
Figure 3.4. Resource Format x Focus.

The distinctions of resource
                                format and resource focus are orthogonal so they can be combined to
                                distinguish four categories of resources: primary physical ones,
                                primary digital ones, physical description ones, and digital
                                description ones.


3.2.5.1. Physical Description of a Primary Physical Resource
The oldest relationship between
                        descriptive resources and physical resources is when
                        descriptions or other information about physical resources are themselves
                        encoded in a physical form.
Nearly ten thousand years ago in Mesopotamia small
                            clay tokens kept in clay containers served as
                        inventory information to count units of goods or
                            livestock. It took 5000 years for the idea of stored tokens
                        to evolve into Cuneiform writing in which marks in clay stood for the tokens
                        and made both the tokens and containers unnecessary.
A Cuneiform Document at the Pergamon


The Pergamon Museum in
                                        Berlin contains a very large collection of Babylonian,
                                        Persian, and Assyrian artifacts that are nearly three
                                        thousand years old. including numerous cuneiform clay
                                        tablets like this one.
(Photo by R. Glushko.)



Printed cards served as physical
                        description resources for books in libraries for nearly two
                        centuries.

3.2.5.2. Digital Description of a Primary Physical Resource
Here, the digital resource describes a physical
                        resource. The most familiar example of this relationship is the
                    online library catalog used to find the shelf location of physical
                        library resources, which beginning in the 1960s replaced the
                    physical cards with database records. The online catalogs for museums usually
                    contain a digital photograph of the painting, item of sculpture, or other museum
                    object that each catalog entry describes.
Digital description resources for
                            primary physical resources are essential in
                            supply chain management,
                            logistics
retailing,
                            transportation, and every business model that
                        depends on having timely and accurate information about where things are or
                        about their current states. This digital description resource is
                    created as a result of an interaction with a primary physical resource like a
                            temperature
                        sensor or with some secondary physical
                        resource that is already associated with the primary
                        physical resource like an RFID tag or
                        barcode.
Augmented
                                reality systems combine a layer of real-time digital
                            information about some physical object to a digital
                            view or representation of it.

The yellow "first down" lines
                        superimposed in broadcasts of football games are a familiar example.
                        Augmented reality techniques that superimpose identifying or
                            descriptive metadata have been used in displays to support
                        the operation or maintenance of complex
                        equipment, in smart
                                phone navigation and tourist guides, in
                        advertising, and in other domains where users might otherwise need to
                        consult a separate information source. 
Advanced airplane cockpit technology includes
                            heads-up displays that present critical data based on available instrumentation,
                        including augmented reality runway lights when
                        visibility is poor because of clouds or fog.
Augmented reality displays have recently been incorporated into wearable consumer technology like
                            
Google Glass, 
                            which mounts on eyeglass frames to display information obtained from the Internet after being requested by voice commands.

3.2.5.3. Digital Description of a Primary Digital Resource
Here, the digital resource describes a digital resource. This is the
                    relationship in a digital library or any web-based organizing system and it
                    makes it possible to access the primary digital resource directly from the
                    digital secondary resource.

3.2.5.4. Physical Description of a Primary Digital Resource
This is the relationship implemented when we encounter an embedded
                        QR barcode in newspaper or magazine advertisements, on
                    billboards, sidewalks, t-shirts, or on store shelves. Scanning the
                        QR code with a mobile phone camera can
                    launch a website that contains information about a product or service, place an order for one unit of the pointed-to- item
                    in a web catalog, dial a phone number, or
                        initiate another application or service
                    identified by the QR code.
Bar Code Shopping in A Virtual Supermarket


Woolworth's Australia
                                        has created what it calls the "virtual
                                            supermarket" composed of product photos on the
                                        walls of popular train stations; scanning the associated bar
                                        code places an order for the item. The orders are then
                                        fulfilled by delivery from an actual supermarket near the
                                        customer's home. This shopping kiosk is in the Circular Quay
                                        station in Sydney Harbour.
(Photo by R. Glushko.)
















3.3. Resource Identity
Determining the identity of
                resources that belong in a domain, deciding which properties are important or
                relevant to the people or systems operating in that domain, and then specifying the
                principles by which those properties encapsulate or define the relationships among
                the resources are the essential tasks when building any organizing system.
            In organizing systems used by individuals or with small scope, the methods for doing
            these tasks are often ad hoc and
            unsystematic, and the organizing systems are therefore idiosyncratic and do not scale
            well. At the other extreme, organizing systems designed for institutional or
            industry-wide use, especially in information-intensive domains, require systematic
            design methods to determine which resources will have separate identities and how they
            are related to each other. These resources and their relationships are then described in
            conceptual models which guide the implementation of the systems that manage the
            resources and support interactions with them.
3.3.1. Identity and Physical Resources
Our human visual
                    and cognitive systems do a remarkable job at picking out objects from their
                    backgrounds and distinguishing them from each other. In fact, we have
                little difficulty recognizing an object or a person even if we are seeing them from
                a novel distance and viewing angle or with different lighting, shading, and so on.
                When we watch a football game, we do not have any trouble perceiving the players
                moving around the field, and their contrasting uniform colors allow us to see that
                there are two different teams.
The perceptual mechanisms that make us see
                    things as permanent objects with contrasting visible properties are just the
                    prerequisite for the organizing tasks of identifying the specific object,
                    determining the categories of objects to which it belongs, and deciding which of
                    those categories is appropriate to emphasize. Most of the time we carry
                out these tasks in an automatic, unconscious way; at other times we make conscious
                decisions about them. For some purposes we consider a sports team as a single
                resource, as a collection of separate players for others, as offense and defense, as
                starters and reserves, and so on.
Although we have many choices about how we can organize football
                players, all of them will include the concept of a single player as the smallest
                identifiable resource. We are never going to think of a football player as an
                intentional collection of separately identified leg, arm, head, and body resources
                because there are no other ways to "assemble" a human from body parts.
                    Put more generally, there are some natural constraints
                    on the organization of matter into parts or collections based on sizes, shapes,
                    materials, and other properties that make us identify some things as indivisible
                    resources in some domain.

3.3.2. Identity and Bibliographic Resources
Pondering the question of identity is
                    something relatively recent in the world of librarians and catalogers. Libraries
                    have been around for about 4000 years, but until the last few hundred years
                    librarians created "bins" of headings and topics to organize
                    resources without bothering to give each individual item a separate identifier
                    or name. This meant searchers first had to make an educated guess as to which
                    bin might house their desired
                        information—"Histories"? "Medical
                        and Chemical Philosophy"?—then scour
                    everything in the category in a quest for their desired item. The choices were
                        ad hoc and always
                        local—that is, each cataloger decided the bins and
                    groupings for each catalog.
The first systematic approach to dealing with
                    the concept of identity for bibliographic resources was developed by Antonio Panizzi at the British Museum in the mid-19th
                    century.
Panizzi wondered: How do we differentiate similar
                    objects in a library catalog? His solution was a catalog organized by
                author name with an index of subjects, along with his newly concocted
                Rules for the Compilation of the Catalogue. This
                contained 91 rules about how to identify and arrange author names and titles and
                what to do with anonymous works. The rules were meant to codify how to differentiate
                and describe each singular resource in his library. Taken together, the rules serve
                to group all the different editions and versions of a work together under a single
                    identity.
The
                    distinctions put forth by Lubetzky, Svenonius and other library science
                    theorists have evolved today into a four-step abstraction hierarchy (illustrated
                    in Figure 3.5, "The FRBR Abstraction Hierarchy for Identifying Resources.") between 
                    the abstract work, 
                    an expression in multiple formats or genres, 
                    a particular manifestation in one of
                    those formats or genres, and a specific physical 
                    item. 
                The broad scope from the abstract
                work to the specific item is essential because organizing systems in libraries must
                organize tangible artifacts while expressing the conceptual structure of the domains
                of knowledge represented in their collections.
If we revisit the question "What is
                    this thing we call 
                Macbeth?" 
                we can see how
                different ways of answering fit into this abstraction hierarchy. The most specific
                answer is that 
                "Macbeth" 
                is a specific
                        item, a very particular and individual resource, like
                that dog-eared paperback with yellow marked pages that you owned when you read
                    Macbeth in high school. A more abstract answer is that
                    Macbeth is an idealization
                    called a work, a category that includes all the plays,
                    movies, ballets, or other intellectual creations that share a recognizable
                    amount of the plot and meaning from the original Shakespeare
                play.
Figure 3.5. The FRBR Abstraction Hierarchy for Identifying Resources.

The abstraction hierarchy for
                                identifying resources yields four different answers about the
                                identity of an information resource. The most specific answer is
                                that every individual resource can be treated as an ITEM because two
                                resources can always be distinguished on the basis of their physical
                                properties. A particular printed copy of Macbeth is an item. By
                                ignoring some of their differentiating properties, a set of items
                                can be treated as a single MANIFESTATION, such as all of the copies
                                of Macbeth from a particular publisher and edition. If we ignore
                                still more differences we can consider a set of resources as a
                                manifestation, like all versions of Macbeth in book form, regardless
                                of publisher or edition. The most general answer to identifying
                                resources would treat as the Macbeth WORK everything that shares the
                                intellectual or conceptual idea of Macbeth, which puts books,
                                movies, plays, and other manifestations in the same equivalence
                                class.


This hierarchy is defined in the Functional Requirements for Bibliographical
                            Records (FRBR), published as a standard by the 
                International Federation of Library Associations and
                            Institutions (IFLA).

3.3.3. Identity and Information Components
In information-intensive domains, documents,
                    databases, software applications, or other explicit repositories or sources of
                    information are ubiquitous and essential to the creation of value for the user,
                    reader, consumer, or customer.
Value is created through the comparison, compilation, coordination or transformation of information in
                    some chain or choreography of processes operating on information flowing from
                    one information source or process to another. These processes are
                employed in accounting, financial
                    services, procurement, logistics,
                    supply chain management, insurance
                    underwriting and claims processing, legal and
                    professional services, customer
                support, computer programming, and
                    energy management.
The processes that create value in information-intensive domains
                are "glued together" by shared 
                information components 
                that are
                exchanged in documents, records, messages, or resource descriptions of some kind.
                Information components 
                are the primitive and abstract resources in
                information-intensive domains. They are the units of meaning that serve as building
                blocks of composite descriptions and other information artifacts.
The value creation processes in
                    information-intensive domains work best when their component parts come from a
                    common controlled
                        vocabulary for components, or when each uses a vocabulary with a
                    granularity and semantic precision compatible with the others. For
                example, the value created by a personal health record emerges when information from
                doctors, clinics, hospitals, and insurance companies can be combined because they
                all share the same "patient" component as a logical piece of
                information.
This abstract definition of information components does
                not help identify them, so we will introduce some heuristic criteria: 
                An 
                    information component 
                    can be: 
                    (1) Any piece of information that has a unique label or identifier or 
                    (2) Any piece of information that is self-contained and comprehensible on its own.
These two criteria for determining the identity of information
                components are often easy to satisfy through observations, interviews, and task
                analysis because people naturally use many different types of information and talk
                easily about specific components and the documents that contain them. Some common
                components (e.g., person, location, date, item) and familiar document types (e.g.,
                report, catalog, calendar, receipt) can be identified in almost any domain. Other
                components need to be more precisely defined to meet the more specific semantic
                requirements of narrower domains. These smaller or more fine-grained components
                might be viewed as refined or qualified versions of the generic components and
                document types, like course grade and semester components in academic transcripts,
                airport codes and flight numbers in travel itineraries and tickets, and drug names
                and dosages in prescriptions.
Decades of practical and theoretical effort in
                conceptual modeling, relational theory, and database design have resulted in
                rigorous methods for identifying 
                information components 
                when requirements and
                business rules for information can be precisely specified. For example, in the
                domain of business transactions, required information like item numbers, quantities,
                prices, payment information, and so on must be encoded as a particular type of
                    data—integer, decimal, Unicode string,
                    etc.— with clearly defined possible values and that
                follows clear occurrence rules.
Identifying components can seem superficially easy at the transactional
                end of the Document Type Spectrum (see the sidebar in §3.2.1, "Resource Domain"), with orders or invoices, forms
                requiring data entry, or other highly-structured document types like product
                catalogs, where pieces of information are typically labeled and delimited by boxes,
                lines, white space or other presentation features that encode the distinctions
                between types of content. For example, the presence of ITEM, CUSTOMER NAME, ADDRESS,
                and PAYMENT INFORMATION labels on the fields of an online order form suggests these
                pieces of information are semantically distinct components in a retail application.
                They follow the "self-contained and comprehensible" heuristic enough to
                interconnect the order management, payment, and delivery services that work together
                to carry out the transaction. In addition, these labels might have analogues in
                variable names in the source code that implements the order form, or as tags in a
                    XML document created by the ordering application; <CustName>John Smith</CustName> and
                    <Item>A-19</Item> in the order
                document can be easily identified when it is sent to the other services by the order
                management application.
But the theoretically grounded methods for identifying components
                like those of relational theory and normalization that work for structured data do not strictly apply when
                information requirements are more qualitative and less precise at the narrative end
                of the Document Type Spectrum. These information requirements are typical of
                narrative, unstructured and semi-structured types of documents, and information
                sources like those often found in law, education, and professional services.
                Narrative documents include technical publications, reports, policies, procedures
                and other less structured information, where semantic components are rarely labeled
                explicitly and are often surrounded by text that is more generic. Unlike
                transactional documents that depend on precise semantics because they are used by
                computers, narrative documents are used by people, who can ask if they are not sure
                what something means, so there is less need to explicitly define the meaning of the
                information components. 
                Occasional exceptions, such as where components in narrative
                documents are identified with explicit labels like NOTE and WARNING, only prove the
                rule.

3.3.4. Identity and Active Resources
Active resources
(§3.4.3.2) initiate effects or create value on their own. In many cases an
                    inherently passive physical resource like a
                    product package or shipping pallet is
                transformed into an active one when associated with an RFID tag or bar
                    code. Mobile phones contain device or subscriber
                IDs so that any information they communicate can be associated both with the phone
                and often, through indirect reference, with a particular person. If the resource has an IP address, it is said to be part of the
                            "Internet of
                    Things."
Organizing systems
                    that create value from active resources often co-exist with
                    or complement organizing systems that treat its resources as passive.
                In a traditional library, books sat passively on shelves and required users to read
                their spines to identify them. Today, some library books contain active
                    RFID tags that make them dynamic information sources that
                self-identify by publishing their own locations. Similarly, a supermarket or
                department store might organize its goods as physical resources on shelves, treating
                them as passive resources; superimposed on that traditional organizing system is one
                that uses point-of-sale transaction information created when items are scanned at
                    checkout counters to automatically re-order goods and
                    replenish the inventory at the store where they
                were sold. In some stores the shelves contain sensors that
                continually "talk to the goods" and the information they gather can
                maintain inventory levels and even help prevent theft of valuable merchandise by
                tracking goods through a store or warehouse. The inventory becomes a collection of
                active resources; each item eager to announce its own location and ready to conduct
                its own sale.
Big Data Makes "Smart" Soccer Players
The German World Cup soccer team, which won the 2014 World Cup, took advantage
                    of sophisticated data collection and analysis to optimize player skill and
                    strategy training. German software firm SAP analyzed video data from on-field
                    cameras that captured thousands of data points per second about player position
                    and movement to identify improvements in passing and ball handling for German
                    players and detect weaknesses in opponents. German sports equipment firm Adidas
                    designed cleats with sensors that track mileage, field position, and movements.
                        (Norton
                            2014) and (Reynolds 2014). 

The extent to which an
                active resource is "smart" depends on how
                much computing capability it has available to refine the data it collects and
                communicates.
A large collection of sensors can transmit a torrent of
                    captured data that requires substantial processing to distinguish significant
                    events from those that reflect normal operation, and also from those that are
                    statistical outliers with strange values caused by random noise.
 This challenge gets qualitatively more difficult as the amount of data
                grows to big
                    data size, because a one in million event might be a statistical
                outlier that can be ignored, but if there are a thousand similar outliers in a
                billion sensor readings, this cluster of data probably reveals something important.
                On the other hand, giving every sensor the computing capability to refine its data
                so that it only communicates significant information might make the sensors too
                expensive to deploy.












3.4. Naming Resources
Determining the identity of the thing, document,
                information component, or data item we need is not always enough. We often need to
                give that resource a name, a label that will help us understand and talk about what
                it is. But naming is not just the simple task of assigning a sequence of
                characters.
In this section, we will discuss why we name, some of the
                problems with naming, and the principles that help us name things in useful
                ways.
3.4.1. What's in a Name?
When a child is born, its parents give it a
                name, often a very stressful and contentious decision. Names serve to distinguish
                one person from another. Names also, intentionally or
                unintentionally, suggest characteristics or aspirations. The name given to us at birth is just one of the names we will be identified
                    with during our lifetimes. We have nicknames, names we use
                professionally, names we use with friends, and names we use online. Our banks, our
                schools, and our governments will know who we are because of numbers they associate
                with our names. As long as it serves its purpose to identify you, your name could be
                    anything.
Resources other than
                        people need names so we can find them, describe them,
                    reuse them, refer or link to them, record who owns them, and otherwise interact
                    with them. In many domains the names assigned to resources are also influenced
                    or constrained by rules, industry practice, or technology
                    considerations.

3.4.2. The Problems of Naming
Giving names to anything, from a business
                    to a concept to an action, can be a difficult process and it is possible to do
                    it well or do it poorly.
The following section details some of the major challenges
                    in assigning a name to a resource.
3.4.2.1. The Vocabulary Problem
Every
                        natural language offers more than one way to express any thought, and in
                        particular there are usually many words that can be used to refer to the
                        same thing or concept. The words people choose to name or describe things
                        are embodied in their experiences and context, so people will often disagree
                        in the words they use. Moreover, people are often a bit surprised when it
                        happens, because what seems like the natural or obvious name to one person
                        is not natural or obvious to another.
One way to avoid surprises is to have people cooperate in choosing names
                        for resources, and information architects often use participatory design
                        techniques of card sorting or free listing for this purpose.

Back in the 1980s in the early days of computer user interface
                    design, George Furnas and his colleagues at Bell Labs conducted a set
                    of experiments to measure how much people would agree when they named some
                    resource or function. The short answer: very little. Left to our own devices, we come up with a shockingly large number of names
                        for a single common thing.
Unreliable Names: Knockin' On Heaven's Door


In 2008, Music
                                        recommendation service Last.fm employee Richard Jones
                                        compiled a list of the 100 most common ways that users had
                                        described the Guns N' Roses recording of Bob Dylan's  song
                                            "Knockin' on Heaven's Door.". Note that the
                                        21st most common description of the song incorrectly
                                        attributes the recording to Aerosmith.

The top 25 were
                                        reprinted in Figure 1 of 
                                        (Hemerly 2011). 
                                        Used by permission here.




In one experiment, a thousand pairs of people were
                    asked to "write the name you would give to a program that tells about
                        interesting activities occurring in some major metropolitan area."
                    Less than 12 pairs of people agreed on a name. Furnas called this phenomenon
                        the
                            vocabulary problem,
concluding that no single word could ever be considered the
                        "best" name.

3.4.2.2. Homonymy, Polysemy, and False Cognates
Sometimes the same word can refer to different
                        resources—a "bank" can be a financial
                    institution or the side of a river. When two words are spelled the same but have
                        different meanings they are homographs; if they
                        are also pronounced the same they are homonyms. If the different meanings of the
                        homographs are related, they are called polysemes.
Resources with homonymous and
                        polysemous names are sometimes incorrectly identified, especially by an
                        automated process that cannot use common sense or context to determine the
                        correct referent. Polysemy can cause more trouble than simple
                    homography because the overlapping meaning might obscure the misinterpretation.
                    If one person thinks of a "shipping container" as being a cardboard
                    box and orders some of them, while another person thinks of a "shipping
                        container" as the large box carried by semi-trailers and stacked on
                    cargo ships, their disagreement might not be discovered until the wrong kinds of
                    containers arrive.
Many words in different languages have common roots, and as a
                    result are often spelled the same or nearly the same. This is especially true
                    for technology words; for example, "computer" has been borrowed by
                    many languages. 
                    The existence of these 
                    cognates 
                    and borrowed words makes us vulnerable to false cognates. 
                    When a word in one language has a different
                    meaning and refers to different resources in another, the results can be
                    embarrassing or disastrous. "Gift" is poison in German; "pain" is bread in French.

3.4.2.3. Names with Undesirable Associations
False
                        cognates are a special category of words that make poor names, and there are
                        many stories relating product marketing mistakes, where a product name or
                        description translates poorly, into other languages or cultures, with
                        undesirable associations. Furthermore, these undesirable associations differ across cultures.
                    For example, even though floor numbers have the straightforward purpose to
                    identify floors from lowest to highest levels, most buildings in Western
                    cultures skip the 13th floor because many people
                    think 13 is an unlucky number. In many East and Southeast Asian buildings, the
                        4th floor is skipped. In China the number 4 is
                    dreaded because it sounds like the word for "death," while 8 is
                    prized because it sounds like the word for "wealth."
While it can be tempting to dismiss unfamiliar biases and beliefs
                    about names and identifiers as harmless superstitions and practices, their
                    implications are ubiquitous and far from benign. Alphabetical ordering might seem
                    like a fair and non-discriminatory arrangement of resources, but because it is
                    easy to choose the name at the top of an alphabetical list, many firms in
                    service businesses select names that begin with "A,"
"AA," or even "AAA" (look in any printed service
                    directory). A consequence of this bias is that people or resources with names
                    that begin with letters late in the alphabet are systematically discriminated
                    against because they are often not considered, or because they are evaluated in
                    the context created by resources earlier in the alphabet rather than on their
                    own merit.

3.4.2.4. Names that Assume Impermanent Attributes
Many resources are given names based
                        on attributes that can be problematic later if the attribute changes in
                        value or interpretation.
From 'Kentucky Fried Chicken' to 'KFC'



"Kentucky Fried Chicken" 
                                    was founded in 1930 by 
                                    Harland Sanders 
                                    as a tiny restaurant in a gas station storeroom in Corbin, Kentucky.
                                    It was one of the first fast-food chains to go international, 
                                    and in 1987 was the first Western restaurant chain to open in China.  
                                    It changed its name to "KFC" a few years later, 
                                    no doubt in part because in Beijing, Moscow, London 
                                    and other locations not anywhere near Kentucky 
                                    many people have probably never heard of the place.
(Photo  by 
                                    Kyle Taylor.
CC-BY-2.0 license.)



Web resources are often referred to using
                        URLs that contain the domain name of the server on which the resource is
                        located, followed by the directory path and file name on the computer
                        running the server. This treats the current location of the
                    resource as its name, so the name will change if the resource is moved. It also
                    means that resources that are identical in content, like those at an archive or
                    mirror website, will have different names than the original even though they are
                    exact copies. An analogous problem is faced by restaurants or businesses with
                    street names or numbers in their names if they lose their leases or want to
                        expand.
Some dynamic web resources that
                        are generated by programs have URIs that contain
                        information about the server technology used to create them. When the
                        technology changes, the URIs will no longer
                        work.
Some resources have names that contain
                        dates, years or other time indicators, most often to point to the
                        future. The film studio named
                                "20th Century
                            Fox" took on that name in the 1930s to give it a
                    progressive, forward-looking identity, but today a name with
                            "20th Century" in it does the
                        opposite.

3.4.2.5. The Semantic Gap
The
semantic gap  is the difference in
                            perspective in naming and description when resources are described by
                            automated processes rather than by people.
The 
                    semantic gap is largest when
                    computer programs or sensors obtain and name some
                    information in a format optimized for efficient capture, storage, decoding, or
                    other technical criteria. The names—like
                        IMG20268.jpg on a digital
                    photo—might make sense for the camera as it stores
                    consecutively taken photos but they are not good names for people. We may prefer
                    names that describe the content of the picture, like
                        GoldenGateBridge.jpg.
When we try to examine the content
                    of computer-created or sensor-captured
                            resources, like a clip of music or a compiled
                    software program, a text rendering of the content simply looks like nonsense. It
                    was designed to be interpreted by a computer program, not by a person.
Semantic Gap: Name This Tune


There is no way for a
                                        person to identify the song by examining this selection from
                                        an MP3 recording because this format is designed for use by
                                        a music playing device. If the song were played back, many
                                        people would recognize it as "Black Throated
                                            Wind" by the Grateful Dead. Serious
                                            "Deadheads" and the person who made this
                                        screen snap would identify it as the February 9, 1973
                                        performance at Stanford University's Maples
                                        Pavilion.
(Screenshot by R.
                                        Glushko.)





3.4.3. Choosing Good Names and Identifiers
If someone tells you they are having dinner
                with their best friend, a cousin, someone with whom they play basketball, and their
                professional mentor from work, how many places at the table will be set? Anywhere
                from two to five; it is possible all those relational descriptions refer to a single
                person, or to four different people, and because "friend,"
"cousin,"
"basketball teammate" and "mentor" do not name specific
                people you will have to guess who is coming to dinner.
If instead of descriptions you are told that the
                dinner guests are Bob, Carol, Ted, and Alice, you can count four names and you know
                how many people are having dinner. But you still cannot be sure exactly which four
                people are involved because there are many people with those names.
The uncertainty is completely eliminated only if we use
                identifiers for the people rather than names. Identifiers
                    are names that refer unambiguously to a specific person, place, or resource
                    because they are assigned in a controlled way.
Identifiers are often created as strings of numbers or
                    letters rather than words to avoid the biases and associations that words can
                    convey. For example, in some universities professors grade final exams
                that are identified with student numbers rather than names so that grades are
                assigned without the bias that could arise if the professor knows the
                student.
The distinction between
                        names and identifiers for people is often not
                    appreciated.
(See the sidebar, Names {and, or, vs} Identifiers.)

Names {and, or, vs} Identifiers
People change their names for many reasons: when they get
                    married or divorced, because their name is often mispronounced or misspelled, to
                    make a political or ethnic statement, or because they want to stand out.  A few years a football player with a large ego named Chad Johnson, which is the second most common surname in the US, decided to
                    change his name to his player number of 85, becoming Chad
                        "Ochocinco." He had an ochocinco.com
                    website and used the ochocinco name on Facebook and
                        Twitter. In a bit of irony, when Ochocinco wanted
                    to put Ocho Cinco on the back of his football jersey, the football league would
                    not let him because his legal name does not have a space in it. That surely
                    contributed to his decision to change his name back to Chad Johnson in
                    2012.

A similar name change with an unintended consequence was that of the
                    American singer and musician Price Rogers Nelson, who adopted the stage name of Prince and released numerous highly successful record albums under that
                    name. But because Prince was not a legal name change, the record label
                    trademarked it for marketing purposes, which led to disputes about control. In
                    response, "The Artist Formerly Known as Prince" invented a graphical symbol that merged the symbols
                    for male and female. Unfortunately, even though it is a unique identifier, this
                    symbol is not represented in any standard character set, so it cannot be printed
                    here and cannot be searched for on the web.

Some minor league sports teams have replaced the player names on
                    jerseys with Twitter handles, which might be a good
                    thing if their fans are into social media, but it must be strange for the
                    announcers at the games when they say "@ifuentes4 just scored a
                        goal."
When you go to coffee shops, you are often asked your name,
                    which the cashier writes on the empty cup so that your drink can be identified
                    after the barista makes it. They
                    do not actually need your name; just as some establishments use a receipt number
                    to distinguish orders, what they need is an identifier. So even if your name is
                    Joe, you can tell them it is Thor, Wotan, Mercurio, El Greco, Clark Kent, or any
                    other name that is likely to be a unique identifier for the minute it takes to
                    make your beverage.

3.4.3.1. Make Names Informative
The most basic principle of
                        naming is to choose names that are informative, which makes them easier to
                        understand and remember. It is easier to tell what a computer
                    program or XML document is doing if it uses names like
                        "ItemCost" and "TotalCost" rather than just
                        "I" or "T." People will enter more consistent and
                    reusable address information if a form asks explicitly for
                        "Street,"
"City," and "PostalCode" instead of
                        "Line1" and "Line2."

Identifiers can be designed with internal structure and
                        semantics that conveys information beyond the basic aspect of pointing to a
                        specific resource. 
                    An International Standard Book Number (ISBN) 
                    like "ISBN 978-0-262-07261-8" identifies a resource
                        (07261="Document Engineering") and also reveals that the
                    resource is a book (978), in English (0), and published by The MIT Press
                        (262).
The navigation
                            points that mark intersections of radial
                            signals from ground beacons or
                            satellites that are crucial to aircraft
                            pilots used to be meaningless five-letter codes.
                    These identifiers were changed to make them suggest their locations; semantic
                    landmark names made pilots less likely to enter the wrong names into navigation
                    systems, For example, some of the navigation points near
                    Orlando, Florida—the home of Disney
                        World—are MICKI, MINEE, and GOOFY.

3.4.3.2. Use Controlled Vocabularies
One way to encourage good names for a given resource domain or task is to
                        establish a controlled
                            vocabulary. A controlled
                                vocabulary can be thought of as a fixed or
                        closed dictionary that includes all the terms that can be used in a
                        particular domain. A controlled vocabulary shrinks the number of words used,
                        reducing synonymy and homonymy and eliminating undesirable associations,
                        leaving behind a set of words with precisely defined meanings and rules
                        governing their use. Controlled vocabularies are applied in many
                    organizing systems, from bibliographic languages that determine the ways books
                    are catalogued in a library to business languages that define the set of
                    information components that can be used in transactional documents.
A controlled vocabulary
                        is not simply a set of allowed words; it also includes their definitions and
                        often specifies rules by which the vocabulary terms can be used and
                        combined. Different domains can create specific controlled
                    vocabularies for their own purposes, but the important thing is that the
                    vocabulary be used consistently throughout that domain.
For
                        bibliographic resources important aspects of vocabulary control include
                        determining the authoritative forms for author names, uniform titles of
                        works, and the set of terms by which a particular subject will be known. In
                        library science, the process of creating and maintaining these
                            standard names and terms is known as authority
                            control.

Official authority files are
                        maintained for many resource domains: a gazetteer associates names and
                        locations and tells us whether we should be referring to Bombay or Mumbai; the Domain Name System (DNS) maps human-oriented domain and host names to their
                            IP addresses; the Chemical Abstracts Service Registry
                        assigns unique identifiers to every chemical described in the open
                        scientific literature; numerous institutions assign unique identifiers to
                        different categories of animal species.

3.4.3.3. Allow Aliasing
Aliasing: Bad for this Fish


A fish 
                                    once known as the Patagonian Toothfish 
                                    because of its large and unattractive teeth 
                                    became popular in American restaurants 
                                    when a fish wholesaler began marketing it as 
                                    the Chilean Sea Bass even though it is usually found 
                                    farther south in cold Antarctic waters 
                                    and it is not a sea bass.  
                                    Unfortunately for the fish, 
                                    this alias was so successful that it led to overfishing, 
                                    threatening the survival of the species.  
                                    Some environmentally-oriented chefs, restauranteurs, 
                                    and seafood distributors organized a boycott to save the fish. 
                                    (Fabricant 2002)
(Photo published by the United States Government. Public domain.)



A controlled vocabulary
                    is extremely useful to people who use it, but if you are designing an
                    organizing system for other people who do not or cannot use it, you need to
                    accommodate the variety of words they will actually use when they seek or
                    describe resources.

The authoritative name of a certain fish
                        species is Amphiprion
                            ocellaris, but most people would search for it as
                        "clownfish,"
"anemone fish," or even by its more familiar film name of
                        Nemo.
Furnas 
                    suggests "unlimited aliasing" to connect
                    the uncontrolled or natural vocabularies that people use with the controlled one
                    employed by the organizing system. By this he means that there must be many
                    alternate access routes to each word or function that a user is trying to find.
                    For example, the birth name of the 42nd President of the United States of America is "William Jefferson Clinton," but web pages that refer to him as "Bill Clinton" are vastly more common, and searches for the former
                    are redirected to the latter. A related mechanism used by search engines is
                    spelling correction, essentially treating all the incorrect spellings as aliases
                    of the correct one ("did you mean California?" when you typed
                        "Claifornia").

3.4.3.4. Make Identifiers Unique or Qualified
Even though an identifier refers to a
                        single resource, this does not mean that no two identifiers are
                        identical. One military inventory system
                    might use stock number 99 000 1111 to identify
                        a 24-hour, cold-climate ration pack, while another
                        inventory system, the same number could be used
                    to identify an electronic radio valve. Each identifier is
                    unique in its inventory system, but if a supply
                    request gets sent to the wrong warehouse hungry soldiers could be sent
                        radio valves instead of
                        rations.
                    
We can prevent or
                        reduce identifier collisions by adding information about the namespace, the domain from which the names
                        or identifiers are selected, thus creating what are often called
                                qualified
                            names. There are several dozen US cities
                    named "Springfield" and "Washington," but adding state
                    codes to mail addresses distinguishes them. Likewise, we can add prefixes to
                        XML element names when we create documents that reuse
                    components from multiple document types, distinguishing <book:Title> from <legal:Title>.
Because they are not
                        created by an algorithm whose results are provably unique, we do not
                        consider fingerprints, or other biometric information, to be globally unique
                        identifiers for people, but for all practical purposes they
                        are.

3.4.3.5. Distinguish Identifying and Resolving
Library call numbers are identifiers that do not contain any
                        information about where the resource can be found in the library stacks on
                        in a digital repository. This separation enables this
                    identification system to work when there are multiple copies in different
                    locations, in contrast to URIs that serve as both identifiers
                    and locations much of the time. When the identifier does not contain information
                    about resource location, we need a way to interpret or "resolve" it to determine the location. With physical
                        resources, resolution takes place with the aid of
                        signs, maps, or other
                        associated resources that describe the arrangement of
                    resources in some physical environment; for example, "You are here"
                    maps have a list of its buildings and associate each with a coordinate or other
                    means of finding it on the map. With digital resources, the resolver is a
                    directory system or service that interprets an identifier and looks up its
                    location or directly initiates the retrieval of the resource.













3.5. Resources over Time
The Great Sphinx at Giza


The Great Sphinx has persisted
                                for over four thousand years. It has survived acts of vandalism,
                                target practice by Napoleon's artillery, shoulder-deep burial in
                                desert sandstorms, and eventual excavation in the early 20th
                                century. Its origin and that of the name "Sphinx" are
                                debated among scholars, yet both are recognized worldwide as a
                                persistent meme in our collective consciousness. There is but one
                                Great Sphinx at Giza, and it is expected to persist until the end of
                                time, or thereabout.
(Photo by R. Glushko.)



Problems of "what is
                the resource?" and "how do we identify it?"
            are complex and often require ongoing work to ensure they are properly answered as the
            content and context of an organizing system evolves. As a result, we might need to know
            how a resource does or does not change over time (its persistence), whether its state and content come into play
            at a specified point in time (its effectivity), whether the
            resource is what it is said to be (its authenticity), and sometimes
            who has certified its authenticity over time (its provenance).
3.5.1. Persistence
Even if you have reached an agreement as to the
                    meaning of "a thing" in your organizing
                    system, you still face the question of the identity of the resource over time,
                    or its persistence.
3.5.1.1. Persistent Identifiers
How long
                        must an identifier last? Coyle gives the conventional, if
                    unsatisfying, answer: "As long as it is needed." In some cases, the time frame is relatively short. When you order a
                    specialty coffee and the barista
                    asks for your name, this identifier only needs to last until you pick up your
                    order at the end of the counter. But other time frames are much longer. For
                    libraries and repositories of scientific, economic, census, or other data the
                    time frame might be "forever."
The design of a scheme for persistent
                        identifiers must consider both the required time frame and the number of
                        resources to be identified. 
                    When the Internet Protocol (IP) 
                    was designed in 1980, it contained a 32-bit address scheme,
                    sufficient for over 4 billion unique addresses. But the enormous growth of the
                    Internet and the application of IP addresses to resources of
                    unexpected types have required a new addressing scheme with 128 bits.

3.5.1.2. Persistent Resources
Even though persistence often has a
                        technology dimension, it is more important to view it as a commitment by an
                        institution or organization to perform activities over time to ensure that a
                        resource is available when it is needed.
Put another way, preservation (§2.5.2) and governance (§2.5.4) are activities carried out
                        to ensure the outcome of persistence.
The subtle
                        relationship between preservation and persistence raises some interesting
                        questions about what it means for a resource to stay the same over
                        time. One way to think of persistence is that a persistent resource
                    is never changed. However, physical resources often require maintenance, repair,
                    or restoration to keep them accessible and usable, and we might question whether
                    at some point these activities have transformed them into different
                        resources. Likewise, digital resources require regular backup and migration to
                    keep them available and this might include changing their digital format.
We might instead think of persistence more abstractly, and expect
                    that persistent resources need only to remain functionally the same to support
                    the same interactions at any point in their lifetimes even if their physical
                    properties change. Active resources implemented as computational agents or web
                    services might be re-implemented numerous times, but as long as they do not
                    change their interfaces they can be deemed to be persistent from the perspective
                    of any other resource that uses them. Similarly, many resources like online
                    newspapers or blog feeds continually change their content but still could have
                    persistent identifiers.


3.5.2. Effectivity
In Which Country Do You Live?
Even if you always live in the same place, the answer to "what country
                        do you live in?" can depend on when it is asked. Consider the case of
                    an elderly woman born in 1929 in Zemum, a district in the eastern European city
                    of Belgrade, who has never moved. The place she lives has been part of seven
                    different countries during her lifetime: Kingdom of Yugoslavia (1929-1941);
                    Independent State of Croatia (1941-1945); Federal People's Republic of
                    Yugoslavia (1945-1963); Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (1963-1992);
                    Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (1992-2003); State Union of Serbia and Montenegro
                    (2003-2006); Republic of Serbia (2007 - present). 

Many resources, or
                    their properties, also have locative or temporal effectivity, meaning that they come
                        into effect at a particular time and/or place; will almost certainly cease
                        to be effective at some future date, and may cease to be effective in
                        different places. 
Temporal effectivity is sometimes known
                    as time-to-live and it is generally expressed as a range of
                    two dates. It consists of a date on which the resource is effective, and
                    optionally a date on which the resource ceases to be effective, or becomes
                    stale. For some types of resources, the effective
                    date is the moment they are created, but for others, the effective
                date can be a time different from the moment of creation. For example, a law can be
                passed in November but not take effect until January 1 of the following year. An
                    effective date is the counterpart of the
                    "Best Before" date on perishable goods. That date indicates when a
                product goes bad, whereas an item's effective date is when it "goes
                    good" and the resource that it supersedes needs to be disposed of or
                archived. 
Locative effectivity considers borders, security, roadways,
                altitude, depth and other geographic factors. Some types of resources, including
                people, are restricted as to where they may or may not be transported and/or used,
                such as hazardous cargo, explosives, narcotics, pharmaceuticals, alcohol, and
                cannabinoids. Jurisdictional issues concern borders, transportation corridors,
                weather stations, and geographic surveys. Aircraft, satellite control systems and
                parachutes are altitude-sensitive; scuba diving cylinders, depth charges, and now
                even cameras are depth-sensitive. 
Effectivity concerns sometimes intersect with authority control for
                names and places. Name changes for resources often are tied to particular dates,
                events, and locations. Laws and regulations differ across organizational and
                geopolitical boundaries, and those boundaries often change. Some places that have
                been the site of civil unrest, foreign occupation, and other political disruptions
                have had many different names over time.
In most cases effectivity implies
                    persistence requirements because it is important to be able to determine and
                    reconstruct the configuration of resources that was in effect at some prior
                    time. A new tax might go into effect on January 1, but if the
                government audits your tax returns what matters is whether you followed the law that
                was in effect when you filed your returns.
People and animals, it turns out, are more or less effective depending on time and
                place, and we have had countless centuries to explore the vast space around us, and
                index our findings along these important axes of inquiry: when and where? Our
                telephones can be programmed to allow or block calls at various times, and to signal
                our home heating system and entry lights when we are approaching our
                neighborhood.

3.5.3. Authenticity
In ordinary
                    use we say that something is authentic if it can
                    be shown to be, or has come to be accepted as what it claims to be. The
                    importance and nuance of questions about authenticity can be seen in the many
                    words we have to describe the relationship between "the real thing"
                    (the "original") and something else: copy, reproduction, replica,
                    fake, phony, forgery, counterfeit, pretender, imposter, ringer, and so
                    on.
Do You Trust This?


The website ustar.net sells
                                    photos autographed by celebrities, and each comes with a
                                    Certificate of Authenticity that includes a replica of the photo
                                    and a signature from a ustar employee to guarantee that the
                                    autograph is an actual hand-signed one. Ustar does not say if it
                                    also provides a certificate to guarantee that the employee
                                    signature is an authorized one.
(Screenshot by R. Glushko. 
                                Source: ustar.net.) 



It is easy to think of examples where authenticity of a resource
                matters: a signed legal contract, a work of
                    art, a historical artifact, even a
                    person's signature.
The creator or operator of an organizing system, whether human or
                machine, can authenticate a newly created resource.
                A third party can also serve as proof of authenticity. Many
                    professional careers are based on figuring out if a resource is
                    authentic.
There is a large body of techniques for establishing the identity of a
                    person or physical resource. We often
                use judgments about the physical integrity of recorded
                information when we consider the integrity of its contents.
Digital authenticity is more difficult to
                    establish. Digital resources can be reproduced at almost no cost, exist in
                    multiple locations, carry different names on identical documents or identical
                    names on different documents, and bring about other complications that do not
                    arise with physical items. Technological solutions for ensuring digital
                authenticity include time stamps, watermarking, encryption, and digital signatures.
                However, while scholars generally trust technological methods, technologists are
                more skeptical of them because they can imagine ways for them to be circumvented or
                counterfeited. Even when a technologically sophisticated system for establishing
                authenticity is in place, we can still only assume the constancy of identity as far
                back as this system reaches in the "chain of
                    custody" of the document.

3.5.4. Provenance
The idea that
                    important documents must be created in a manner that can be authenticated and
                    then preserved, with an unbroken chain of custody, goes
                    back to ancient Rome.
Notaries witnessed the creation of important documents,
                which were then protected to maintain their integrity or value as evidence. In organizing
                    systems like museums and archives that preserve rare or culturally important
                    objects or documents this concern is expressed as the principle of
                        provenance. This is the history of the
                ownership of a collection or the resources in it, where they have been and who has
                had access to the resources.
A uniquely Chinese technique in
                    organizing systems is the imprinting of
                    elaborate red seals on documents, books, and paintings that collectively record
                    the provenance of ownership and the review and approval of the artifact by
                    emperors or important officials.
Chinese Manuscript With Provenance Seals

This beautiful manuscript, preserved in the National
                                    Palace Museum in Taipei, was created by Zhao Ji (赵佶), Emperor Huizong, the 8th
                                    Emperor of the Chinese Song Dynasty about a thousand years ago.
                                    He was famous for his skills in poetry, painting, and
                                    calligraphy. There are two poems here; the one on the right
                                    describes the techniques for Chinese landscape paintings, while
                                    the poem on the left expresses the Emperor's appreciation of
                                    plum blossoms, which signal the beginning of
                                spring.
The red seals are those of
                                    several Ching Dynasty emperors over many generations, with the
                                    oldest being at least five hundred years after Huizong created
                                    the poems. Stamping your personalized red seal on a resource is
                                    analogous to but vastly more elegant and informative than
                                        "Liking" a web page today.
(Photo by R. Glushko.)



Figure 3.6, "Resources over Time." portrays the relationships among the concepts
                of Persistence, Provenance, Effectivity, and Authenticity. A resource might have
                persistence over some time line, but an unbroken chain of custody that captures
                changes in possession enables questions about authenticity to be answered with
                authority. Effectivity emphasizes a particular segment on the time line or a
                starting point after which the resource is effective.
Figure 3.6. Resources over Time.

Four considerations that arise
                                with respect to the maintenance of resources over time are their
                                persistence, provenance, authenticity, and
                            effectivity.















Self-Review

Question









Answer




3.6. Key Points in Chapter Three
Switch to Quiz Mode
What is the relationship between a
                        resource and a category?

We can consider a resource to be one of many members of a
                        very broad category, as the unique instance of a category with only one
                        member, or anywhere in between.
See §3.1.1, "What Is a Resource?"

What factors affect the size of a
                        category?

The size of the category—the number
                        of resources that are treated as equivalent—is
                        determined by the properties or characteristics we consider when we examine
                        the resource.
See §3.1.1, "What Is a Resource?"

What are active resources?

Active
                            resources create effects or value
                        on their own, sometimes when they initiate interactions with passive
                        resources. Active resources can be people,
                            other living resources, computational
                            agents, active information
                            sources, web-based services,
                            self-driving cars,
                            robots,
                        appliances, machines
                        or otherwise ordinary objects like light bulbs, umbrellas, and shoes that
                        have been made "smarter."

See §3.2.3.2, "Active or Operant Resources"

What is the recall/precision
                        tradeoff?

More fine-grained organization reduces recall, the number of resources you
                        find or retrieve in response to a query, but increases the precision of the recalled set, the
                        proportion of recalled items that are relevant.
See §3.3.3, "Identity and Information Components"

What is metadata?

Organizing systems for physical information resources
                        emphasize description resources or surrogates like bibliographic records
                        that describe the information content rather than their physical
                        properties.
See §3.1.1.2, "Bibliographic Resources, Information Components, and "Smart
                        Things" as Resources"

What is agency?

Agency
 is the extent to which a resource can initiate actions on its
                        own. We can define a continuum between completely passive
                    resources that cannot initiate any actions and active resources that can
                    initiate actions based on information they sense from their environments or
                    obtain through interactions with other resources.

Is there a fundamental difference
                        between a primary resource and metadata associated with it?

Which resources are primary and which are metadata is
                        often just a decision about which resource is the focus of our attention.
See §3.2.4, "Resource Focus"

What is the Document Type
                        Spectrum?

It can be useful to view domains of information resources
                        on the Document Type Spectrum from weakly-structured narrative content to
                        highly structured transactional content.
See the sidebar, The Document Type Spectrum

What is the FRBR four-level
                        abstraction hierarchy?

The concept of identity for bibliographic resources has
                        evolved into a four-level abstraction hierarchy between the abstract
                            work, an expression in multiple formats or
                        genres, a particular manifestation in one of those formats or genres, and a
                        specific physical item.
See §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources" and
                            Figure 3.5, "The FRBR Abstraction Hierarchy for Identifying Resources."

What are active resources?

Resources become active resources when they contain
                        sensing and communication capabilities.
See §3.2.3, "Resource Agency"

Can organizing systems contain both
                        active and passive resources?

Organizing systems that create value from active resources
                        often co-exist with or complement organizing systems that treat its
                        resources as passive.
See §3.2.3, "Resource Agency"

What is the most basic principle of
                        naming?

The most basic principle of naming is to
                        choose names that are informative.
See §3.4.3.1, "Make Names Informative"

What is the vocabulary
                        problem?

Every
                        natural language offers more than one way to express any thought, and in
                        particular there are usually many words that can be used to refer to the
                        same thing or concept. The words people choose to name or describe things
                        are embodied in their experiences and context, so people will often disagree
                        in the words they use. Moreover, people are often a bit surprised when it
                        happens, because what seems like the natural or obvious name to one person
                        is not natural or obvious to another.
See §3.4.2, "The Problems of Naming"

What is a potential problem with
                        basing names on a resource attribute?

Many resources are given names based on attributes that
                        can be problematic later if the attribute changes in value or
                        interpretation.
See §3.4.2.4, "Names that Assume Impermanent Attributes"

What is the Semantic Gap?

The
semantic gap  is the difference in
                            perspective in naming and description when resources are described by
                            automated processes rather than by people.
See §3.4.2.5, "The Semantic Gap"

What is a controlled
                        vocabulary?

One way to encourage good names for a given resource domain or task is to
                        establish a controlled
                            vocabulary. A controlled
                                vocabulary can be thought of as a fixed or
                        closed dictionary that includes all the terms that can be used in a
                        particular domain. A controlled vocabulary shrinks the number of words used,
                        reducing synonymy and homonymy and eliminating undesirable associations,
                        leaving behind a set of words with precisely defined meanings and rules
                        governing their use.
See §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies"

What is authority control?

For
                        bibliographic resources important aspects of vocabulary control include
                        determining the authoritative forms for author names, uniform titles of
                        works, and the set of terms by which a particular subject will be known. In
                        library science, the process of creating and maintaining these
                            standard names and terms is known as authority
                            control.
See §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies"

What is an identifier and what design
                        goals must it satisfy?

An identifier is a special kind of name assigned in a
                        controlled manner and governed by rules that define possible values and
                        naming conventions. The design of a scheme for persistent identifiers must
                        consider both the required time frame and the number of resources to be
                        identified.
See §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"

Which organizing system activities
                        promote persistence?

Preservation and governance are activities carried out to
                        ensure the outcome of persistence.
See §3.5.1, "Persistence"

What is effectivity?

Many resources, or
                    their properties, also have locative or temporal effectivity, meaning that they come
                        into effect at a particular time and/or place; will almost certainly cease
                        to be effective at some future date, and may cease to be effective in
                        different places. 
See §3.5.2, "Effectivity"

We can consider a resource to be one of many members of a
                        very broad category, as the unique instance of a category with only one
                        member, or anywhere in between.
See §3.1.1, "What Is a Resource?"

The size of the category—the number
                        of resources that are treated as equivalent—is
                        determined by the properties or characteristics we consider when we examine
                        the resource.
See §3.1.1, "What Is a Resource?"

Active
                            resources create effects or value
                        on their own, sometimes when they initiate interactions with passive
                        resources. Active resources can be people,
                            other living resources, computational
                            agents, active information
                            sources, web-based services,
                            self-driving cars,
                            robots,
                        appliances, machines
                        or otherwise ordinary objects like light bulbs, umbrellas, and shoes that
                        have been made "smarter."

See §3.2.3.2, "Active or Operant Resources"

More fine-grained organization reduces recall, the number of resources you
                        find or retrieve in response to a query, but increases the precision of the recalled set, the
                        proportion of recalled items that are relevant.
See §3.3.3, "Identity and Information Components"

Organizing systems for physical information resources
                        emphasize description resources or surrogates like bibliographic records
                        that describe the information content rather than their physical
                        properties.
See §3.1.1.2, "Bibliographic Resources, Information Components, and "Smart
                        Things" as Resources"

Agency
 is the extent to which a resource can initiate actions on its
                        own. We can define a continuum between completely passive
                    resources that cannot initiate any actions and active resources that can
                    initiate actions based on information they sense from their environments or
                    obtain through interactions with other resources.

Which resources are primary and which are metadata is
                        often just a decision about which resource is the focus of our attention.
See §3.2.4, "Resource Focus"

It can be useful to view domains of information resources
                        on the Document Type Spectrum from weakly-structured narrative content to
                        highly structured transactional content.
See the sidebar, The Document Type Spectrum

The concept of identity for bibliographic resources has
                        evolved into a four-level abstraction hierarchy between the abstract
                            work, an expression in multiple formats or
                        genres, a particular manifestation in one of those formats or genres, and a
                        specific physical item.
See §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources" and
                            Figure 3.5, "The FRBR Abstraction Hierarchy for Identifying Resources."

Resources become active resources when they contain
                        sensing and communication capabilities.
See §3.2.3, "Resource Agency"

Organizing systems that create value from active resources
                        often co-exist with or complement organizing systems that treat its
                        resources as passive.
See §3.2.3, "Resource Agency"

The most basic principle of naming is to
                        choose names that are informative.
See §3.4.3.1, "Make Names Informative"

Every
                        natural language offers more than one way to express any thought, and in
                        particular there are usually many words that can be used to refer to the
                        same thing or concept. The words people choose to name or describe things
                        are embodied in their experiences and context, so people will often disagree
                        in the words they use. Moreover, people are often a bit surprised when it
                        happens, because what seems like the natural or obvious name to one person
                        is not natural or obvious to another.
See §3.4.2, "The Problems of Naming"

Many resources are given names based on attributes that
                        can be problematic later if the attribute changes in value or
                        interpretation.
See §3.4.2.4, "Names that Assume Impermanent Attributes"

The
semantic gap  is the difference in
                            perspective in naming and description when resources are described by
                            automated processes rather than by people.
See §3.4.2.5, "The Semantic Gap"

One way to encourage good names for a given resource domain or task is to
                        establish a controlled
                            vocabulary. A controlled
                                vocabulary can be thought of as a fixed or
                        closed dictionary that includes all the terms that can be used in a
                        particular domain. A controlled vocabulary shrinks the number of words used,
                        reducing synonymy and homonymy and eliminating undesirable associations,
                        leaving behind a set of words with precisely defined meanings and rules
                        governing their use.
See §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies"

For
                        bibliographic resources important aspects of vocabulary control include
                        determining the authoritative forms for author names, uniform titles of
                        works, and the set of terms by which a particular subject will be known. In
                        library science, the process of creating and maintaining these
                            standard names and terms is known as authority
                            control.
See §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies"

An identifier is a special kind of name assigned in a
                        controlled manner and governed by rules that define possible values and
                        naming conventions. The design of a scheme for persistent identifiers must
                        consider both the required time frame and the number of resources to be
                        identified.
See §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"

Preservation and governance are activities carried out to
                        ensure the outcome of persistence.
See §3.5.1, "Persistence"

Many resources, or
                    their properties, also have locative or temporal effectivity, meaning that they come
                        into effect at a particular time and/or place; will almost certainly cease
                        to be effective at some future date, and may cease to be effective in
                        different places. 
See §3.5.2, "Effectivity"












Chapter 4. Resource Description and MetadataRobert J. GlushkoKimra McPhersonRyan GreenbergMatthew Mayernik
4.1. Introduction

Click. A professional photographer standing on a mountainside takes
            a picture with a digital camera. What
                information should be recorded and associated with the recorded image of the
                mountain scene? Modern cameras assign an identifier to the stored
            photograph and they also capture the technical description of the image's production:
            the type of camera, lens, shutter speed, light sensitivity, aperture, and other
                settings. Many modern cameras also record information about the
                geographic and temporal circumstances surrounding the image's
            creation: the date, time and location on Earth where the photograph is taken. When the
            image is transferred out of the camera and is published for all to see, it might be
            useful to record biographical information about the photographer to help viewers relate
            to the photographer and better understand the photograph's context. There may also be
            different licenses and copyright information to associate with the
                picture—who owns it and how it can be used.
Four 7-year old boys are selecting Lego blocks to
            complete their latest construction. The first boy is looking for "cylinder
                one-ers," another for "coke bottles," the third for
                "golder wipers," and the final boy is looking for "round
                one-bricks"? It turns out, they are all the same thing; each boy has devised
            his own set of descriptive terms for the tiny building blocks. Some of their many
            descriptions are based on color alone ("redder"), some on color and shape
                ("blue tunnel"), some on role ("connector"), some on
            common cultural touchstones ("light saber"). Others, like "jail
                snail" and "slug," seem
            unidentifiable—unless, of course, you happen to be inside the
            mind of a particular 7-year-old kid. That does not matter, so long as their descriptions
            allow the boys to understand each other.
        
Digital photos and Lego blocks are very
            different, yet for our purposes these scenarios are both about resource description.
            Together both scenarios raise important questions about describing resources that we
            answer in this chapter: What is the purpose of resource
                description? What resource properties should be described? How are resource
                descriptions created? What makes a good resource description?

We begin with an overview of 
            resource description
                (§4.2), which we propose as a broad
            concept that includes the narrower concepts of 
            bibliographic descriptions 
            and metadata.
                §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources" describes a 7-step process of describing resources
            that includes determining scope, focus and purposes, identifying resource properties,
            designing the description vocabulary, designing the description form and implementation,
            and creating and evaluating the descriptions. Because many principles and methods for
            resource description were developed for describing text resources in physical formats,
            in §4.4, "Describing Non-text Resources" we briefly discuss the issues that arise when
            describing museum and artistic resources, images, music, video, and contextual
            resources.












4.2. An Overview of Resource Description
We 
            describe resources so that we can refer to them,
            distinguish among them, search for them, manage access to them, and preserve them.
            Each purpose might require different 
            resource descriptions. 
            We use resource descriptions 
            in every communication and conversation, 
            and they are the enablers of organizing systems.

4.2.1. Naming {and, or, vs.} Describing

Chapter 3, "Resources in Organizing Systems" discussed how to decide what things should be treated as
                resources and how names and identifiers distinguish one resource from another.
                    Many names are literally 
                        resource descriptions, 
                        or once were. 
                Among the most common surnames in English are descriptions of
                occupations (Smith, Miller, Taylor), 
                
                descriptions of 
                
                kinship relations 
                (Johnson, 
                Wilson, Anderson), 
                and descriptions of appearance 
                (Brown, White).
            
Similarly, many other kinds of resources
                have names that are property descriptions, including buildings
                    (Pentagon, White House), 
                geographical locations (North America, Red Sea), 
                and cities (Grand Forks, Baton Rouge).
In many cultures throughout the world, it has been very common for
                one spouse or the other to take on a name that describes their marital relationship.
                Historically, in many parts of the English-speaking world, married women have often
                referred to themselves using their husband's name; when Jane Smith married John Brown, her name became Jane Brown or Mrs. John Brown.
            
Every resource can be given a name or identifier.
                Identifiers are especially efficient 
                resource descriptions 
                because, by definition,
                identifiers are unique over some domain or collection of resources. Names and
                identifiers do not typically describe the resource in any ordinary sense because
                they are usually assigned to the resource rather than recording a property of
                it.
However, the arbitrariness of names and identifiers means that
                they do not serve to distinguish resources for people who do not already know them.
                This is why we use what linguists call referring expressions or definite
                descriptions, like "the small black dog" rather than the more efficient
                    "Blackie," when we are talking to someone who does not know that is
                the dog's name.
            
Similarly, when we use a library catalog or search engine to
                locate a known resource, such as a particular book or document, we query for it
                using its name, or other specific information we know about it, to increase the
                likelihood that we can find it. In contrast, when we are looking for resources to
                satisfy an information need but do not have specific resources in mind, we query for
                them using descriptions of their content or other properties. In general, information retrieval can be characterized as
                    comparing the description of a user's needs with descriptions of the resources
                    that might satisfy them.


4.2.2. "Description" as an Inclusive Term
Up to now we have used the concept of "description"
                without defining it because we have most often used it in its ordinary sense to mean
                the visible or important features that characterize or represent something. However,
                the concept is sometimes used more precisely in the context of organizing systems,
                where resource
                    description is often more formal, systematic, and institutional.
                    In the library science context
                    of bibliographic
                        description, a 
descriptor
 is one of the terms in a carefully designed language that
                        can be assigned to a resource to designate its properties, characteristics,
                        or meaning, or its relationships with other resources.
                In the contexts of conceptual modeling and information systems design, the terms in
                    resource
                    descriptions are also called keywords, index terms, attributes, attribute values, elements, data elements, data
                values, or "the vocabulary." In contexts where descriptions are less
                formal or more personal the description terms are often called labels or tags.
                Rather than attempt to make fine distinctions among these synonyms or near-synonyms,
                we will use "description" as an inclusive term except where
                conventional usage overwhelmingly favors one of the other terms.
All of these terms come from a relatively narrow semantic scope in
                which the purpose of description is to identify and characterize the essence, or
                    aboutness, of a resource. This
                leaves out many kinds of information that can be associated with a resource to
                support additional purposes; for example, information that specifies access controls
                or possible uses of the resource, or information about actual uses. We describe many
                of these purposes and the types of information needed to enable them in §4.3.2, "Determining the Purposes". We apply resource description in an
                expansive way to accommodate all of them.

Chapter 3 introduced the distinction of Resource Focus to contrast primary resources with
                resources that describe them, which we called Description Resources. We chose this
                term as a more inclusive and more easily understood alternative to two terms that
                are well established in organizing systems for information resources: bibliographic descriptions
                and metadata. 
                
                We will also distinguish resource description as a general concept from
                the narrower senses of tagging of web resources and the 
                Resource Description Framework (RDF) 
                language used to make statements about web resources and physical
                resources that can be identified on the Web.
4.2.2.1. Bibliographic Descriptions
The purposes and nature of bibliographic description
                        are the foundation of library and information science and have been debated
                        and systematized for nearly two centuries.
Bibliographic descriptions
characterize information resources and the entities
                            that populate the bibliographic universe, which include works, editions,
                            authors, and subjects. Despite the "biblio-"
                        root, bibliographic descriptions are applied to all of the resource types
                        contained in libraries, not just books. Note also that this definition
                        includes not just the information resources being described as distinct
                        instances, but also as sets of related instances and the nature of those
                        relationships.

A bibliographic description of an information resource
                        is typically realized as a structured record in a standardized format that
                        describes a specific resource. The earliest bibliographic records
                    in the nineteenth century were those in book catalogs, which organized for each
                    author a list of his authored books, with separate entries for each edition and
                    physical copy. Relationships between books by different authors were described
                    using cross-references.

4.2.2.2. Metadata
Metadata is often defined as "data about
                            data," a definition that is nearly as ubiquitous as it is
                        unhelpful. A more content-full definition of metadata is that it is
                            structured description for information resources of any
                            kind, which makes it a superset of bibliographic
                            description.

The concept of metadata originated in information systems and
                    database design in the 1970s, so it is much newer than that of bibliographic
                    description. In addition, metadata has originally meant and still most often
                    refers to descriptions of classes or collections of resources rather than
                    descriptions of individual resources. The earliest metadata resources, called
                    data dictionaries, documented the arrangement and content of data fields in the
                    records used by transactional applications on mainframe computers. A more
                    sophisticated type of metadata emerged as the documentation of the data models
                    in database management systems, called database schemas, which described the
                    structure of relational tables, attribute names, and legal data types and values
                    for content.
Today, XML schemas and other web- and
                    compute-friendly formats for resource description have broadened the idea of
                        resource
                        description far beyond that of bibliographic description to
                    include the description of software components, business and scientific data
                    sets, web services, and computational objects in both physical and digital
                    formats. The resource descriptions themselves serve to enable discovery, reuse,
                    access control, and the invocation of other resources needed for people or
                    computational agents to effectively interact with the primary ones described by
                    the metadata.
                
The concept of metadata has more recently been extended to include
                    the tags, ratings, bookmarks or other types of descriptions that individuals
                    apply to individual photos, blog or news items, or any other web resource or
                    physical resource with a web presence that can be annotated.

4.2.2.3. Tagging of Web-based Resources
Tags on Last.fm


By analyzing tags and
                                        other metadata, Last.fm can generate rich multimedia
                                            "discovery" pages that bring together
                                        resources such as artist catalogs, new songs, free
                                        downloads, music videos, and related tags that its algorithm
                                        determines may be relevant to the musical tastes of the
                                        user. This allows users to browse for new music in
                                    a more intuitive and idiosyncratic manner than more traditionl
                                    methods such as filtering by artist or genre.
(Screenshot by
                                   Ian MacFarland.)




Tags are labels in the form of words or phrases that
                    describe a resource. With the explosive growth of digital photos and videos,
                    both kept in personal collections and shared online, the practice of tagging has emerged as a way to apply labels to
                    content in order to describe and identify it. Sets of tags have become
                    incredibly useful both in managing one's collection of websites or digital
                    media, to share them with others, and to enable new types of interactions and
                        services. For example, users of 
Last.fm
 tag music with labels help describe its nature, era, mood, or genre,
                    and Last.fm uses these tags to generate radio
                    stations that play music similar to that tag and related tags.
But tagging has a downside. A
                    lack of vocabulary control and a tendency for users to tag intuitively and
                    spontaneously revives the vocabulary problem (§3.4) because one
                    photographer's "tree" is another's "oak." Likewise,
                    unsystematic word choice leads to morphological inconsistency (§5.4.3, "Relationships among Word Forms"); the same photo
                    might be tagged with "burning" and "trees" by one
                    person and with "burn" and "tree" by another. This
                    disparity in the descriptors people use to categorize the same or similar
                    resources can turn systems that use tagging into a 
                    
"tag soup" lacking in structure.
                

4.2.2.4. Resource Description Framework (RDF)
The Resource Description Framework (RDF) is a standard model for making computer-processable statements
                    about web resources; it is the foundation for the vision of the Semantic Web. We have been using the word "resource" to refer to
                    anything that is being organized. In the context of RDF and the
                    web, however, "resource" means something more specific: a resource is
                    anything that has been given a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI). URIs can take various forms, but you are
                    probably most familiar with the URIs used to identify web
                    pages, such as http://springfield-elementary.edu/. (You are probably
                    also used to calling these URLs instead of
                    URIs.) The key idea behind RDF is that we can
                    use URIs to identify not only things "on" the web,
                    like web pages, but also things "off" the web like people or
                    countries. For example, we might use the URI
http://springfield-elementary.edu/ to refer to Springfield
                        Elementary itself, and not just the school's web page.

RDF models all descriptions as sets of "triples,"
                    where each triple consists of the
                    resource being described (identified by a URI), a property, and a value.
                    Properties are resources too, meaning they are identified by
                        URIs. For example, the URI

http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/schoolHomepage
 identifies a property defined by the 
                    Friend of a Friend (FOAF)
                    
                    project for relating a person to (the web page of) a school they attended.
                    Values can be resources too, but they do not have to be: when a property takes
                    simple values like numbers, dates, or text strings, these values do not have
                    URIs and so are not resources.
Because RDF uses URIs to identify
                    described resources, their properties, and (some) property values, the triples
                    in a description can be connected into a network or graph.
Figure 4.1, "RDF Triples Arranged as a Graph." shows four triples that have been connected
                    into a graph. Two of the triples describe Bart Simpson, who is identified using the URI of his
                        Wikipedia page.
                    The other two describe Lisa Simpson. Two of the triples use the property age, which
                    takes a simple number value. The other two use the property
                        schoolHomepage, which takes a resource value, and in this
                    case they happen to have the same resource (Springfield
                        Elementary's home page) as their value.
Figure 4.1. RDF Triples Arranged as a Graph.

Two RDF triples can be connected to form a
                                    graph when they have a resource, property, or value in common.
                                    In this example RDF triples that make a statement about the home
                                    page of the elementary school attended by Bart Simpson and Lisa
                                    Simpson can be connected because they have the same value,
                                    namely the URI for Springfield Elementary.



Using URIs as identifiers for
                        resources and properties allows descriptions modeled as RDF
                        to be interconnected into a network of "linked data," in the
                        same way that the web enabled information to be interconnected into a
                        massive network of "linked documents."
 Proponents of RDF claim that this will greatly
                    benefit knowledge discovery and inference.
                    But the benefits of RDF's highly prescriptive
                    description form must be weighed against the costs; turning existing
                    descriptions into RDF can be labor-intensive.

RDF can be used for bibliographic description, and some
                        libraries are exploring whether RDF transformations of
                        their legacy bibliographic records can be exposed and integrated with
                        resource descriptions on the open web. This activity has raised technical
                        concerns about whether the RDF model of description is
                        sophisticated enough and more fundamental concerns about the desirability of
                        losing control over library resources.



4.2.3. Frameworks for Resource Description
The broad scope of resources to which descriptions can be
                    applied and the different communities that describe them means that many 
frameworks
 and classifications have been proposed to help make sense of
                    resource description.

The dominant historical view treats resource descriptions
                    as a package of statements; this view is embodied in the printed
                        library card catalog and its computerized analog in the
                        MARC21 format (an exchange format for library catalog
                    records), which contains many fields about the bibliographic characteristics of
                    an object like author, title, publication year, publisher, and
                    pagination.
An alternate architecture for resource description focuses
                    on each individual description or assertion about a single resource. This
                    statement at a time view of resource is more typical when descriptions are
                    assigned to web objects or resources, and much of the discussion about this view
                    is framed in terms of the particular syntactic forms being used in
                        RDF.
Figure 4.2, "Architectures for Resource Description." contrasts these two
                alternatives.
Figure 4.2. Architectures for Resource Description.

Two contrasting architectures for resource
                                descriptions are separate descriptions and packaged descriptions.
                                The packaged architecture was dominant historically in library
                                catalogs when they consisted of printed cards that contained all of
                                the descriptions about a resource.



In either case, these common ways of thinking about resource
                description emphasize—or perhaps even
                    overemphasize—two implementation decisions: 
                The first is
                        whether to combine multiple resource descriptions into a structural package or to
                        keep them as separate descriptive statements.The second is the choice of syntax in
                        which the descriptions are encoded.

Both of these implementation decisions have important
                implications, but are secondary to the questions about the purposes of resource
                description, how resource properties are selected as the basis for description, how
                they are best created, and other logical or design considerations. In keeping with a fundamental idea of the
                    discipline of organizing (introduced in §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle""), it
                    is imperative to distinguish design principles from implementation choices.

We treat the set of implementation decisions about character
                    notations, syntax, and structure as the 
form
 of resource description and we will defer them as much as
                we can until Chapter 8, "The Forms of Resource Descriptions".
Resource description is not an end in itself. Its many
                    purposes are all means for enabling and using an organizing system for some
                    collection of resources. As a result, our framework for resource
                descriptions aligns with the activities of organizing systems we discussed in Chapter 2: selecting, organizing, interacting
                with, and maintaining resources.












4.3. The Process of Describing Resources
We prefer the general concept of resource description over the more
            specialized ones of bibliographic description and metadata because it makes it easier to
            see the issues that cut across the domains where those terms dominate. In addition, it
            enables us to propose more standard process that we can apply broadly to the use of
            resource descriptions in organizing systems. A shared vocabulary enables the sharing of
            lessons and best practices.
The process of describing resources involves several interdependent
            and iterative steps. We begin with a generic summary of the process to set the stage for
            a detailed step-by-step discussion.

Identifying resources to describe is the
                    first step; this topic is covered in detail in §3.3, "Resource Identity".
                        
The resource 
domain
 and 
scope
 circumscribe the describable properties and the possible
                        purposes that descriptions might serve.
The resource focus determines which are primary information resources
                        and which ones are treated as the corresponding resource
                        descriptions.
Two important decisions at this stage are 
granularity
 of description—are we describing
                        individual resources or collections of them?—and the
                            abstraction level—are we
                        describing resource instances, parts of them, or resource types?


Generally, the purpose of resource description is to
                        support the activities common to all organizing systems: selecting,
                        organizing, interacting with, and maintaining resources, as we saw in Chapter 2. The particular
                    resource domain and the context in which descriptions are created and used
                    imposes more specific requirements and constraints on the purposes that resource
                    description can serve.

Once the purposes of description in terms of activities
                        and interactions have been determined, the specific properties of the
                        resources that are needed to enable them can be identified. The
                    contrasts between intrinsic and extrinsic properties, and between static and
                    dynamic properties, are useful to identify appropriate resource
                    properties.

This step includes several logical and semantic decisions about how
                    the resource properties will be described. What
                        terms or element names should be used to identify the resource properties we
                        have chosen to describe? Are there rules or constraints on the types of data
                        or values that the property descriptions can assume?
A good description vocabulary will be easy to assign
                        when creating resource descriptions and easy to understand when using
                        them.


The logical and semantic decisions about the
                        description vocabulary are reified by decisions about the notation, syntax
                        and structure of the descriptions. Taken together, these decisions
                    collectively determine what we call the form or
                        encoding of the resource descriptions. The implementation of the descriptions involves decisions
                        about how and where they are stored and the technology used to create, edit,
                        store, and retrieve them.


Resource descriptions are created by individuals, by
                        informal or formal groups of people, or by automated or computational
                        means. Some types of descriptions can only be created by people,
                    some types of descriptions can only be created by automated or algorithmic
                    techniques, and some can be created in either manner.

The resource descriptions must be evaluated with
                        respect to their intended purposes. The results of this evaluation
                    will help determine which or the preceding steps need to be redone.

The next seven sub-sections discuss each of these steps in detail. A
            quick reference guide is Figure 4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources."

Figure 4.3. The Process of Describing Resources.

The process of describing resources consists of seven
                            steps: Determining the scope and focus, determining the purpose,
                            identifying resource properties, designing the description vocabulary,
                            designing the description form and implementation, creating the
                            descriptions, and evaluating the descriptions.



How explicit and systematic each step needs to be depends on the
            resource domain and scope, and especially on the intended users of the organizing
            system. If we look carefully, we can see most of these steps taking place even in very
            informal contexts, like the kids playing with Lego blocks with which we started this
            chapter. The goal of building things with the blocks leads the boys to identify which
            properties are most useful to analyze. They develop descriptions of the blocks that
            capture the specific values of the relevant properties. Finally, they evaluate their
            descriptions by using them when they play together; it becomes immediately obvious that
            a description is not serving its purpose when one boy hands a block to another that was
            not the one he thought he had asked for.
In contrast, the picture-taking scenario involves a
            much more explicit and systematic process of resource description. The resource
            properties, description vocabulary, and description form used automatically by the
            digital camera were chosen by an industry association and published as a technical
            specification implemented by camera and mobile phone manufacturers worldwide. If a
            professional photographer is taking the photo for commercial purposes, many of the other
            descriptions assigned to the image to identify ownership, rights management and
            syndication are likely to conform to formal specifications and be managed in
            institutional information systems.
The resource descriptions used by libraries, archives, and
                museums are typically created in an even more explicit and systematic manner. Like
                the descriptions of the digital photo, the properties, vocabulary, and form of the
                descriptions used by their organizing systems are governed by standards. However,
                there is no equivalent to the digital camera that can create these descriptions
                automatically. Instead, highly trained professionals create them
                meticulously.

A great many resources and their associated descriptions in
                business and scientific organizing systems are created by automated or computational
                processes, so the process of describing individual resources is not at all like that
                in libraries and other 
                memory institution. 
                However, the process for designing the
                data models or schemas for the class of resources that will be generated is equally
                systematic and is typically performed by highly skilled data analysts and data
                modelers.

4.3.1. Determining the Scope and Focus
Which resources do we want to describe? As we
                saw in Chapter 3, determining what will be
                treated as a separate resource is not always easy, especially for resources with
                component parts and for information resources where the most important property is
                their content, which is not directly perceivable. Identifying the thing you want to
                describe as precisely as practical is the first step to creating a useful
                description.
In §3.2.4, "Resource Focus", we introduced the contrast between
                primary resources and description resources, which we called resource focus.
                Determining the resource focus goes hand in hand with determining which resources we
                intend to describe; these often arbitrary decisions then make a huge difference in
                the nature and extent of resource description. One person's
                    metadata is another person's data. For a librarian, the price of a
                        book might be just one more attribute that is part of
                    the book's record. For an accountant at a bookstore, the price of that
                        book—both the cost to buy the book and the price at
                    which it is then sold to customers—is critical
                    information for staying in business. A scientist studying comparative anatomy
                    preserves animal specimens and records detailed
                        physical descriptions about them, but a scientist
                    studying ecology or migration discards the specimens and focuses on describing
                    the context in which the specimen was located.

4.3.1.1. Describing Instances or Describing Collections
It is simplest to think of a resource description as
                        being associated with another individual resource. However, as
                    discussed in Chapter 3, it can be
                    challenging to determine what to treat as an individual resource when resources
                    are themselves objects or systems that are composed of other parts or resources.
                    For example, we sometimes describe a football team as a single resource and at
                    other times we focus on each individual player. However, after we have decided
                    on resource granularity, the question remains whether each resource needs a
                    separate description.
Libraries and museums specialize in
                    curating resource descriptions about the instances in their collections.
                    Resource descriptions are also applied to classes or collections of resources
                    (because a collection is also a resource; see §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""
). Archives and special collections of maps are
                    typically assigned resource descriptions, but each document or map contained in
                    the collection does not necessarily have its own bibliographic description.
                    Similarly, business and scientific data sets are invariably described at
                    collection-level granularity because they are often analyzed in their
                    entirety.

4.3.1.2. Abstraction in Resource Description
We can also associate resource descriptions with an
                        entire type or domain of resources.
(See §2.5.2.4, "Preserving Resource Types" and §3.2.1, "Resource Domain".)
A collection of resource descriptions is vastly more
                        useful when every resource is described using common description elements or
                        terms that apply to every resource.

A schema (or model, or
                        metadata standard) specifies the set of descriptions that apply to
                            an entire resource type. Sometimes this schema,
                    model, or standard is inferred from or imposed on a collection of existing
                    resources to ensure more consistent definitions, but more often, it is used as a
                    specification when the resources are created or generated in the first place.
                        (See What about "Creating" Resources? in §2.1, "Introduction".)

A relational database,
                    for example, is easily conceptualized as a collection of records organized as
                    one or more tables, with each record in its own row having a number of fields or
                    attributes that contain some prescribed type of content. Each record or row in
                    the database table is a description of a resource—an
                    employee, a product, anything—and the individual
                    attribute values, organized by the columns and rows of the table, are distinct
                    parts of the description for some particular resource instance, like employee 24
                    or product 8012C.
The information resources that we commonly call
                    documents are, by their nature, less homogeneous in content and structure than
                    those that can be managed in databases. Document schemas, commonly represented
                    in SGML or XML, usually allow for a mixture of
                    data-like and textual descriptive elements. 
It is often necessary to associate some descriptions
                        with individual resources that are specific to that instance and other kinds
                        of descriptions that reflect the abstract class to which the instance
                        belongs. When a typical car comes off the
                    assembly line, it has only one instance-level description that differentiates it
                    from its peers: its vehicle identification number
                        (VIN). Specific cars have individualized interior and
                    exterior colors and installed options, and they all have a date and location of
                    manufacture. Other description elements have values that are shared with many
                    other cars of the same model and year, like suggested price and the additional
                    option packages, or configurations that can be applied to it before it is
                    delivered to a customer. Alternatively, any descriptive information that applies
                    to multiple cars of the same model year could be part of a resource description
                    at that level that is referred to rather than duplicated in instance
                    descriptions.

4.3.1.3. Scope, Scale, and Resource Description
If we only had one thing to describe, we could use a
                        single word to describe it: "it." We would not need to
                        distinguish it from anything else. A second resource implies at least one
                        more term in the description language: "not it." However, as a
                        collection grows, descriptions must become more complex to distinguish not
                        only between, but also among resources.

Every element or term in a description language creates
                        a dimension, or axis, along which resources can be distinguished, or it
                        defines a set of questions about resources.
                    Distinctions and questions that arise frequently need to be easy to address,
                        such as:
                        What is the name of the resource?Who created it?What type of content or matter does it contain?
                    Therefore, as a
                    collection grows, the language for describing resources must become more
                    rigorous, and descriptions created when the collection was small often require
                    revision because they are no longer adequate for their intended purposes. The
                    description language typically evolves from a simple list of descriptive terms
                    to a glossary with definitions, to a highly controlled vocabulary with content
                    rules for allowable values, and, finally, to a thesaurus in which each term is
                    also defined with respect to its semantic relationships to other terms that are
                    broader, narrower, or otherwise associated with it.
                
Because the task of library resource description has
                        been standardized at national and international levels, cataloging work is
                        distributed among many describers whose results are shared. The principle of standardization has been the
                            basis of centralized bibliographic description for a century.


Centralized resource description by skilled
                    professionals works for libraries, but even in the earliest days of the web many
                    library scientists and web authoring futurists recognized that this approach
                    would not scale for describing web resources. In 1995, the 
Dublin Core (DC)
 metadata element set with only 15 elements was proposed as a vastly
                    simpler description vocabulary that people not trained as professional
                    catalogers could use. Since then, the 
                    Dublin Core initiative has been highly influential in inspiring numerous
                    other communities to create minimalist description vocabularies, often by
                    simplifying vocabularies that had been devised by professionals for use by
                    non-professionals. 
Of course, a simpler description vocabulary makes fewer
                    distinctions than a complex one; replacing "author,"
"artist,"
"composer" and many other descriptions of the person or non-human
                    resource responsible for the intellectual content of a resource with just
                        "creator" (as Dublin Core does) results in a substantial loss
                    of precision when the description is created and can cause misunderstanding when
                    the descriptions are reused.
                
The negative impacts of growing scope and scale on
                        resource description can sometimes be avoided if the ultimate scope and
                        scale of the organizing system is contemplated when it is being
                        created. It would not be smart for a business with customers in six
                    US states to create an address field in its customer database that only handled
                    those six states; a more extensible design would allow for any state or province
                    and include a country code. In general, however, just as there are problems in
                    adapting a simple vocabulary as scope and scale increase, designing and applying
                    resource descriptions that will work for a large and continuously growing
                    collection might seem like too much work when the collection at hand is
                    small.


4.3.2. Determining the Purposes
Resource description serves many purposes, and the mix of purposes
                and the resulting kinds of descriptions in any particular organizing system depends
                on the scope and scale of the resources being organized. We can identify and
                classify the most common purposes using the four activities that occur in every
                organizing system: selecting, organizing, interacting with, and maintaining
                resources (see Chapter 2).
4.3.2.1. Resource Description to Support Selection
Defining selection as the process by which resources are
                    identified, evaluated, and then added to a collection in an organizing system
                    emphasizes resource descriptions created by someone other than the person who is
                    using them. We can distinguish several different ways in which resource
                    description supports selection:
DiscoveryWhat resources are available that might be added to a
                                        collection? New resources are often listed in
                                    directories, registries, or catalogs. Some types of resources
                                    are selected and acquired automatically through subscriptions
                                    or, contracts.
Capability and
                            CompatibilityWill the resource meet functional or
                                    interoperability requirements? Technology-intensive resources
                                    often have numerous specialized types of descriptions that
                                    specify their functions, performance, reliability, and other
                                        "-ilities" that determine if they fit in with
                                    other resources in an organizing system.
                                 Some services have qualities of service levels, terms and
                                conditions, or interfaces documented in resource descriptions that
                                affect their compatibility and interoperability. Some resources have
                                licensing or usage restrictions that might prevent the resources
                                from being used effectively for the intended purposes.AuthenticationIs the resource what it claims to be? (§3.5.3, "Authenticity"). Resource descriptions that can
                                    support authentication include technological ones like time
                                    stamps, watermarking, encryption, checksums, and digital
                                    signatures. The history of ownership or custody of a
                                resource, called its provenance (§3.5.4, "Provenance"),
                                is often established through association with sales or tax records.
                                Import and export certificates associated with the resource might be
                                required to comply with laws designed to prevent the theft of
                                antiquities or the transfer of technology or information with
                                national security or foreign policy implications.AppraisalWhat is the value
                                    of this resource? What is its cost? At what rate does it
                                    depreciate? Does it have a shelf life? Does it have any
                                    associated ratings, rankings, or quality measures? Moreover,
                                    what is the quality of those ratings, rankings and
                                    measures?

We can also take the perspective of
                    the person creating the resource description and consider his or her primary
                    purpose, which is often to encourage the selection of the resource by someone
                    else. This is what product marketing is about—devising
                    names and descriptions to make a resource distinctive and attractive compared to
                    alternatives. For many years prunes were promoted as a dietary supplement that
                    people (especially old ones) need to "maintain regularity." But
                    after the California Prune Board (the world's biggest
                    supplier) re-branded them as "dried plums" and started marketing
                    them as a snack food (and simultaneously renaming itself as the
                        California Dried Plum Board) sales increased
                    significantly. Apple has consistently described its products
                    to emphasize experiential or cultural properties, as compared with
                        Intel or other PC manufacturers, whose descriptions
                    emphasize technical specifications.
                
Stop and Think: Real Estate Advertisements
Real estate advertisements are notorious for their creatively optimistic
                        descriptions; a house that is advertised as being "convenient to
                            transportation" is most likely next to a busy highway or bus
                        route, and a house in a "secluded location" is in a remote and
                        desolate part of town.
How would you describe the house or apartment or room where you live in a
                        way that turns its negatives into positives?


4.3.2.2. Resource Description to Support Organizing
Often, the activities of organizing resources and designing interactions with them are intertwined, but they are
                        logically separate. We define organizing as specifying the principles or
                        rules for describing and arranging resources in order to create the
                        capabilities on which interactions are based. This lets us treat
                    the design and implementation of resource interactions as if those were separate
                    and subsequent activities. For example, assigning
                        keywords to documents that describe their contents is an organizing activity, while designing and
                    implementing an information retrieval application that uses the keywords is the
                        design of resource interactions.
Physical
                            resources are often organized according to their tangible or
                        perceivable properties like size, color, material of composition, or shape
                            (§2.3.1.1, "Organizing with Properties of Physical Resources").
For other types of physical
                        resources, however, such as hazardous materials, it is
                        the descriptions and not the directly perceivable properties that determine
                        or constrain how the resources are organized (§2.3.1.2, "Organizing with Descriptions of Physical Resources").
Similarly, building codes or other regulations
                        associated with physical resources can prescribe or prohibit particular
                        resource arrangements.
Rules governing the collection,
                        integration, and analysis of personal information are also resource
                        descriptions that influence the organization of information
                        resources.

Any types of resources that have sortable identifiers
                        can be organized using that descriptive element.


4.3.2.3. Resource Description to Support Interactions
Most discussions of the purposes of resource descriptions and
                        metadata emphasize the interactions that are based on resource descriptions
                        that have been intentionally and explicitly assigned. For
                    bibliographic resources these interactions and the models of resource
                    descriptions needed to support them have been formalized as the Functional Requirements for Bibliographic
                            Records (FRBR).
                    FRBR presents four purposes that apply generically
                    to organizing systems, not just bibliographic ones: Finding, Identifying,
                    Selecting, and Obtaining resources.
FindingWhat resources are available that "correspond
                                        to the user's stated search criteria" and thus can
                                    satisfy an information need? Before there were online catalogs
                                    and digital libraries, we found resources by referencing
                                    catalogs of printed resource descriptions incorporating the
                                    title, author, and subject terms as access points into the
                                    collection; the subject descriptions were the most important
                                    finding aids when the user had no particular resource in mind.
                                    Modern users accept that computerized indexing makes search
                                    possible over not only the entire description resource, but
                                    often over the entire content of the primary resource.
                                Businesses search directories for descriptions of company
                                capabilities to find potential partners, and they also search for
                                descriptions of application interfaces (APIs) that enable them to
                                exchange information in an automated manner.IdentifyingAnother purpose of resource description is to enable
                                    a user to confirm the identity of a specific resource or to
                                    distinguish among several that have some overlapping
                                    descriptions. In bibliographic contexts this might mean finding
                                    the resource that is identified by its citation. Computer
                                    processable resource descriptions like bar codes,
                                        QR codes, or RFID tags are
                                    also used to identify resources. In Semantic Web contexts,
                                        URIs serve this purpose.
Selecting
Selecting in this context means the user activity of using
                                    resource descriptions to support a choice of resource from a
                                    collection, not the institutional activity of selecting
                                    resources for the collection in the first place. Search engines
                                    typically use a short "text snippet" with the query
                                    terms highlighted as resource descriptions to support selection.
                                    People often select resources with the least restrictions on
                                    uses as described in a Creative Commons
                                    license.
                                 A business might select a supplier or distributor that
                                uses the same standard or industry reference model to describe its
                                products or business processes because it is almost certain to
                                reduce the cost of doing business with that business
                                    partner.
                            Obtaining
Physical resources often require significant
                                        effort to obtain after they have been selected. Catching a
                                            bus or plane involves coordinating
                                        your current location and time with the time and location
                                        the resource is available. With information resources in physical form,
                                        obtaining a selected resource usually meant a walk through
                                        the library stacks. With
                                        digital information resources, a search engine returns a
                                        list of the identifiers of resources that can be accessed
                                        with just another click, so it takes little effort to go
                                        from selecting among the query results to obtaining the
                                        corresponding primary resource.


Elaine Svenonius proposed that a fifth task be added to the FRBR
                    list: NavigationIf users are not able to specify their
                                        information needs in a way that the finding functionality requires, they should
                                        be able to use relational and structural descriptions among
                                        the resources to navigate from any resource to other ones
                                        that might be better. Svenonius emphasizes generalization,
                                        aggregation, and derivational
                                        relationships. But in principle, any relationship or property could
                                    serve as the navigation "highway" between
                                    resources.

The FRBR
                        framework is the most recent formalization of the purposes of resource
                        description that started in nineteenth century libraries.
                     This long history means it is not surprising that how we think about
                    resource description still shows some bias toward interactions with physical
                    bibliographic resources and the descriptions needed to obtain them. With
                    physical resources, any interactions that take place once the primary resources
                    are obtained are outside the scope of the organizing system because they are not
                    directly supported by it.
With digital resources, on the other hand,
                    many of the purposes of resource description are realized with the primary
                    resources. These purposes usually involve processing of the resource content and
                    structure: analysis, summarization, visualization, transformation, reuse,
                    mixing, remixing... far too many purposes to list here. The core principle that underlies all of these
                        purposes is that the variety and functions of the interactions with digital
                        resources depends on the richness of their structural, semantic, and format
                        description. (See §2.4.2.2, "Value Creation with Digital Resources".)
An important difference between interactions with
                            physical resources and those with digital resources
                        is how they use resource descriptions for access control. Resources
                    sometimes have associated security classifications like "Top
                        Secret" that restrict who can learn about their existence or obtain
                    them. Nonetheless, if you get your hands on a top secret printed
                        document, nothing can prevent you from reading it. Similarly,
                        printed resources often have "All rights
                        reserved" copyright notices that say that you cannot copy them, but
                    nothing can prevent you from making copies with a copy
                        machine. On the other hand, learning of the existence of a
                    digital resource might be of little value if copyright or licensing restrictions
                    prevent you from obtaining it. Moreover, obtaining a digital resource might be
                    of no value if its content is only available using a password, decryption key,
                    or other resource description that enforces access control directly rather than
                    indirectly like the security classifications.
Another important difference between physical
                            resources and digital ones is that interactions with the
                        latter are easily recorded. Usage records from session logs,
                    browsing, or downloading activities are resource descriptions that can be tied
                    to payments for using the resources or analyzed to influence the selection and
                    organizing of resources in future interactions.

4.3.2.4. Resource Description to Support Maintenance
Many types of resource descriptions that support
                        selection (§4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection") are also useful over time to
                        support maintenance of specific resource and the collection to which they
                        belong. In particular, technical information about resource formats
                    and technology (software, computers, or other) needed to
                    use the resources, and information needed to ensure resource integrity is often
                    called "preservation metadata" in a maintenance context.
                
Other types of resource descriptions more exclusively associated
                    with maintenance activities include version information and effectivity or
                    useful life information. Usage records are also valuable because they enable the
                    identification of resources that are not being accessed, suggesting that they
                    are no longer needed and can thus be safely archived or discarded.


4.3.3. Identifying Properties
Once the purposes of description have been established, we need to
                identify the specific properties of the resources that can satisfy those purposes.
                There are four reasons why this task is more difficult than it initially
                appears.

First, any particular resource might need many resource
                        descriptions, all of which relate to different properties, depending on the
                        interactions to be supported and the context in which they take place. Think
                        about how we might describe something as simple as a
                            chair. In your house, you might describe your chair based on
                        the room it is in, e.g., "the kitchen chair." When you take the
                        same chair to a potluck dinner at a friend's house, where all the chairs end
                        up in the kitchen, it becomes "my chair," or "the wooden
                            chair," or "the folding chair," or "the black
                            chair with white trim." Maybe you inherited it, so when you talk
                        to your family, you call it "grandma's chair." If you decide to
                        sell it, you will describe it in a way that is intended to encourage someone
                        to buy it, as an "all-oak antique kitchen chair in mint
                            condition."


Second, different types of resources need to incorporate
                        different properties in their descriptions. For resources in a museum, these
                        might include materials and dimensions of
                            pieces of art; for files and services managed by a
                        network administrator, these include access control permissions; for
                        electronic books or DVDs, they would include the
                        digital rights management (DRM) code that expresses what
                        you can and cannot do with the resource.

Third, as we briefly touched on
                            in §4.3.1.3, "Scope, Scale, and Resource Description", which properties
                        participate in resource descriptions depends on who is doing the describing.
                        It makes little sense to expect fine-grained distinctions and
                        interpretations about properties from people who lack training in the
                        discipline of organizing. We will return to this
                            tradeoff in §4.3.6, "Creating Resource Descriptions" and again in §4.4.1, "Describing Museum and Artistic Resources".


Fourth, what might seem to be the same property at a
                        conceptual level might be very different at an implementation level. Many
                        types of resources have a resource description that is a surrogate or
                        summary in some respects of the primary resource. For
                            photos, paintings, and other
                        resources whose appearance is their essence, an appropriate summary
                        description can be a smaller, reduced resolution or thumbnail photo of the
                        original. This surrogate is simple to create and it is easy for users to
                        understand its relationship to the primary resource. On the other hand,
                        distilling a text down to a short summary or abstract is a skill unto
                        itself. Time-based resources provide greater challenges for summary. Should the summary of a movie be a textual summary
                            of the plot, a significant clip from the movie, a video summary, or
                            something else altogether? How is a song summarized? Or a poem? Or a
                            tree?


Whistler's Mother
In resource descriptions for works of art, one would expect to see the name of
                    the artist, the medium, the year of its completion, and, of course, its title.
                    Most of these map fairly obviously to the properties they describe; the title,
                    owing to its prominence and expressive power, is often an exception. 


"Arrangement in Grey
                                        and Black No. 1" (1871). Oil on canvas, by
                                            James Abbott McNeill Whistler. Alternative
                                    titles: "Portrait of the Artist's Mother" and
                                        "Whistler's Mother." The painting is currently
                                    housed at Musée d'Orsay in
                                Paris.
(Photo by
                                Jean-Gilles Berizzi 
                                Source: Wikimedia Commons.
                                Written by Ian MacFarland.)



Traditionally, a painting's title includes some description of its subject. If
                    you recognize this image, you most likely know it by its colloquial name,
                        Whistler's Mother. While it is indeed a portrait of
                            Anna McNeill Whistler, mother of the nineteenth-century
                    American painter James Abbott McNeill Whistler, the artist himself gave it a
                    radically different title, Arrangement in Grey and Black, No. 
                        1, because he believed the most important property of
                    a painting was not the subject it depicted, but its purely aesthetic properties
                    and the effect they created in the viewer. Whistler insisted on titling his
                    paintings, which were mostly landscapes and portraits, in the manner of musical
                    compositions: Nocturne in Black and Gold,
                        Symphony in White, Arrangement in Pink,
                        Red, and Purple, and so on. 
"As music is the poetry of sound, so is painting the poetry of sight,
                        and the subject-matter has nothing to do with harmony of sound or of
                        colour,"  he wrote in 1878. (Whistler 1890)
The severity of this painting's title is jarring, and we are more likely to
                    describe it as a portrait of an elderly woman rather than an exploration of the
                    tonal harmonies of gray and black.

Two important dimensions for understanding and
                    contrasting resource properties used in descriptions and organizing principles
                    are: property essence—whether the properties are
                    intrinsically or extrinsically associated with the resource, and; property
                        persistence—whether the properties are static or
                    dynamic. Taken together these two dimensions yield four categories of
                properties, as illustrated in Figure 4.4, "Property Essence x Persistence: Four Categories of Properties."

Figure 4.4. Property Essence x Persistence: Four Categories of Properties.

The distinctions of property persistence and
                                property essence are orthogonal so they can be combined to
                                distinguish four categories of properties: intrinsic static ones,
                                extrinsic static ones, intrinsic dynamic ones, and extrinsic dynamic
                                ones.



4.3.3.1. Intrinsic Static Properties
Intrinsic or implicit
                        properties are inherent in the resource and can often be directly perceived
                        or experienced.
Static properties do not change their values over
                        time. The species of an animal, the material of composition of a
                    wooden chair, and the diameter of a wheel are all static properties that do not
                    change their values over time. This is why static properties are often used to
                    describe and organize physical resources. If a particular Lego is blue, it is
                    set apart from all the not-blue Legos; a square Lego is physically different
                    from a round one. When bibliographic resources were exclusively physical, their
                    sizes and their number of pages were common physical properties in their
                    descriptions.
Intrinsic Static Properties Define a Dalmatian
The spots on a Dalmatian dog are
                        intrinsic static properties that appear shortly after birth,
                        and they are so distinctive that it is impossible to
                        describe the breed without acknowledging the spots.



This particular Dalmatian is the
                                        "greeter" at the Viader
                                        Winery in Deer Park, California. The dog is nice
                                    and the wines are excellent.
(Photo by R. Glushko.)




Intrinsic physical properties are usually just part of resource
                        descriptions. In many cases, physical properties describe only the
                    surface layer of a resource, revealing little about what something is or its
                    original intended purpose, what it means, or when and why it was created. These
                    intrinsic static properties cannot be directly perceived. The author or creator
                    of a resource, the context of its creation, and the duration of a song are other
                    examples of intrinsic and static resource properties.
Intrinsic descriptions are often extracted or
                        calculated by computational processes. For example, a computer
                    program might calculate the frequency and distribution of words in some
                    particular document. Those statistics about content properties would still be
                    intrinsic descriptions even though an external process creates them. 
                    Similarly,
                    visual signatures 
                    or audio fingerprints are
                    intrinsic descriptions (§4.4, "Describing Non-text Resources").
Some relationships among resources are intrinsic and static,
                    like the parent-child relationship or the sibling relationship between two
                    children with the same parents. Part-whole or compositional relationships for
                    resources with parts, both physical ones like manufactured objects and digital
                    ones like hierarchical documents or databases, are also intrinsic static
                    properties often used in resource descriptions. However, it is better to avoid
                    treating resource relationships as properties, and instead express them as
                        relations.
Chapter 5, "Describing Relationships and Structures" discusses part-whole and other semantic
                        relationships in great detail.


4.3.3.2. Extrinsic Static Properties
Extrinsic or explicit properties are assigned
                        to a resource rather than being inherent in it. The name or
                    identifier of a resource is often arbitrary but once assigned does not usually
                    change. 
Arranging resources according to the
                            alphabetical or numerical order of their descriptive identifiers is a
                            common organizing principle.
 Classification numbers and subject headings assigned to bibliographic
                    resources are extrinsic static properties, as are the serial numbers stamped on
                    or attached to manufactured products.
For information resources that have a digital form, the
                    properties of their printed or rendered versions might not be intrinsic. Some
                    text formats completely separate content from presentation, and as a result,
                    style sheets can radically change the appearance of a printed document or web
                    page without altering the primary resource in any way. For example, were a
                    different style applied to this paragraph to highlight it in bold or cast in
                    24-point font, its content would remain the same.

4.3.3.3. Intrinsic Dynamic Properties
Intrinsic dynamic properties change over
                        time. Developmental personal characteristics like a person's height
                    and weight, skill proficiency, or intellectual capacity, for example. Because
                    these properties are not static, they are usually employed only to organize
                    resources whose membership in the collection is of limited duration. Sports
                    programs or leagues that segregate participants by age or years of experience
                    are using intrinsic dynamic properties to describe and organize the
                    resources.

4.3.3.4. Extrinsic Dynamic Properties
Extrinsic dynamic
                        properties are in many ways arbitrary and can change because they are based
                        on usage, behavior, or context. The current owner or location of a
                    resource, its frequency of access, the joint frequency of access with other
                    resources, its current popularity or cultural salience, or its competitive
                    advantage over alternative resources are typical extrinsic and dynamic
                    properties that are used in resource descriptions. A topical book described as a
                    best seller one year might be found in the discount sales bin a few years later.
                    A student's grade point average is an extrinsic dynamic property.
Many relationships between
                        resources are extrinsic and dynamic properties, like that of best
                        friend.

Why are Ottoman Carpets Named After a German Painter?


An example of a
                                        cultural category that has far outlasted its motivation is
                                        that of the Holbein carpet. A particular type of
                                        geometrically patterned Ottoman rug came to be known as a
                                            "Holbein carpet" after the German
                                        Renaissance painter Hans Holbein, who often depicted the
                                        rugs in his work (probably to show off his extremely
                                        meticulous technique). Holbein was very famous in his time,
                                        and his commissioned paintings of the English King Henry
                                        VIII have Henry standing on such rugs.
                                        This painting, called "The Ambassadors," 
                                    was painted in 1533 and currently hangs in  
                                    The National Gallery, London.

(Source: Google Art Project)



Resources are often described with cultural properties that derive from conventional language
                        or culture, often by analogy, because they can be highly evocative and
                        memorable.
                     For the Lego boys familiar with the
                        Star Wars movies, "light saber" was just
                    the obvious word for a long, neon tube with a handle. However, someone who has
                    never seen or heard of Star Wars would not understand
                    this description, and he would describe the piece some other way. Sometimes a
                    cultural description lasts longer than its salience, so it loses its power to
                    evoke anything other than puzzlement about what it might mean.
                



Contextual
                                properties
 are those related to the situation or context in which a
                        resource is described. Dey defines context as "any
                            information that characterizes a situation related to the interactions
                            between users, applications, and the surrounding environment."

                     This open-ended definition implies a large number of contextual
                    properties that might be used in a description; crisper definitions of context
                    might be "location + activity" or "who,
                        when, where, why."
Since context changes, context-based descriptors might
                        be appropriate when assigned but can have limited persistence and
                        effectivity (§3.5, "Resources over Time"); the description of a document
                        as "receipt of a recent purchase" will not be useful for very
                        long.

Stop and Think: Arranging a Clothing Store 
Clothing stores use intrinsic static properties when they present
                        merchandise arranged according to color and size, and extrinsic static
                        properties when they sort merchandise according to brands. When do they use
                        intrinsic dynamic properties? Extrinsic dynamic ones? 



4.3.4. Designing the Description Vocabulary
After we have determined the properties to use in resource
                descriptions, we need to design the description vocabulary: the set of words or
                values that represent the properties. §3.4, "Naming Resources" discussed the
                problems of naming and proposed principles for good names, and since names are a
                very important resource description, much of what we said there applies generally to
                the design of the description vocabulary.
However, because the description vocabulary as a whole is much
                more than just the resource name, we need to propose additional principles or
                guidelines for this step. In addition, some new design questions arise when we
                consider all the resource descriptions as a set whose separate descriptions are
                created by many people over some period of time.
4.3.4.1. Principles of Good Description
In 
The Intellectual Foundation of Information
                            Organization
, Svenonius proposes a set of principles or "directives for
                        design" of a description language. Her principles, framed in the narrow context of bibliographic
                    descriptions, still apply to the broad range of resource types we consider in
                    this book. User ConvenienceChoose description terms with
                                        the user in mind; these are likely to be terms in common
                                        usage among the target audience.
RepresentationUse
                                        descriptions that reflect how the resources describe
                                        themselves; assume that self-descriptions are
                                        accurate.
Sufficiency and
                                Necessity
Descriptions should have
                                        enough information to serve their purposes and not contain
                                        information that is not necessary for some purpose; this
                                        might imply excluding some aspects of self-descriptions that
                                        are insignificant. 
StandardizationStandardize descriptions to the extent practical, but also
                                        use aliasing to allow for commonly used terms.
Integration
Use the same properties and terms
                                        for all types of resources whenever possible.


Any set of general design
                    principles faces two challenges. 
                    The first is that implementing any principle
                            requires many additional and specific context-dependent choices for which the
                            general principle offers little guidance. For example, how does the principle of
                            Standardization apply if multiple standards already exist in some resource
                            domain? Which of the competing standards should be adopted, and why?The second
                            challenge is that the general principles can sometimes lead to conflicting
                            advice. The User Convenience recommendation to choose description terms in
                            common use fails if the user community includes both ordinary people and
                            scientists who use different terms for the same resources; whose "common
                                usage" should prevail?


4.3.4.2. Who Uses the Descriptions?
Focus on the user of the
                        descriptions. This is a core idea that we cannot overemphasize
                    because it is implicit in every step of the process of resource description. All
                    of the design principles in the previous section share the idea that the design
                    of the description vocabulary should focus on the user of the descriptions.
                        Are the resources being organized personal
                        ones, for personal and mostly private purposes? In that case, the
                    description properties and terms can be highly personal or idiosyncratic and
                    still follow the design principles.
Similarly, when resource users share
                    relevant knowledge, or are in a context where they can communicate and
                    negotiate, if necessary, to identify the resources, their resource descriptions
                    can afford to be less precise and rigorous than they might otherwise need to be.
                    This helps explain the curious descriptions in the Lego
                    story with which we began this chapter. The boys playing with the blocks were
                    talking to each other with the Legos in front of them. If
                    they had not been able to see the blocks the others were talking about, or if
                    they had to describe their toys to someone who had never played with
                        Legos before, their descriptions would have been quite
                    different.
More often, however, resource descriptions can
                    not assume this degree of shared context and must be designed for user
                    categories rather than individual users: library users searching for books,
                    business employees or customers using part and product catalogs, scientists
                    analyzing the datasets from experiments or simulations. In each of these
                    situations resource descriptions will need to be understood by people who did
                    not create them, so the design of the description vocabulary needs to be more
                    deliberate and systematic to ensure that its terms are unambiguous and
                    sufficient to ensure reliable context-free interpretation. A single individual seldom has the breadth of domain
                        knowledge and experience with users needed to devise a description
                        vocabulary that can satisfy diverse users with diverse purposes.
                    Instead, many people working together typically develop the required description
                    vocabulary. We call the results institutional vocabularies, to contrast them
                    with individual or cultural ones (We will discuss this contrast more fully in
                        Chapter 6, "Categorization: Describing Resource Classes and Types").
Stop and Think: Description and Expertise
Everyone knows something about trees, 
                        but some people know more than others, 
                        and their particular experience and perspective influences how they describe trees.  
                        What kind of properties and descriptions would be used by university students?  
                        By research botanists? By landscape designers?  
                        By park maintenance workers?  
                        By indigenous people who live in tropical rain forests?
                    

Some resource descriptions are designed to be
                        used by computers or other machines, which seemingly reduces the importance
                        of design principles that consider user preferences or common uses. However,
                        the Standardization and Integration principles become more important for
                        inter-machine communication because they enable efficient processing, reuse
                        of data and software, and increased interoperability between organizing
                        systems.


4.3.4.3. Controlled Vocabularies and Content Rules
As we defined in §3.4.3.2, a controlled vocabulary
                        is a fixed or closed set of description terms in some domain with precise
                        definitions that is used instead of the vocabulary that people would
                        otherwise use. For example, instead of the popular terms for
                    descriptions of diseases or symptoms, medical researchers and teaching hospitals
                    can use the National Library of Medicine's 
Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
 controlled vocabulary.
                
We can distinguish a progression of vocabulary control:
                        a glossary is a set of allowed terms; a thesaurus is a set of terms arranged
                        in a hierarchy and annotated to indicate terms that are preferred, broader
                        than, or narrower than other terms; an ontology expresses the conceptual
                        relationships among the terms in a formal logic-based language so they can
                        be processed by computers. We will say more about ontologies in
                        Chapter 5.
Content rules
                        are similar to controlled vocabularies because they also limit the possible
                        values that can be used in descriptions. Instead of specifying a fixed set
                        of values, content rules typically restrict descriptions by requiring them
                        to be of a particular data type (integer, Boolean, Date, and so
                        on). Possible values are constrained by logical expressions (e.g.,
                    a value must be between 0 and 99) or regular expressions (e.g.,
                    must be a string of length 5 that must begin with a number). Content rules like
                    these are used to ensure valid descriptions when people enter them in web forms
                    or other applications.

4.3.4.4. Vocabulary Control as Dimensionality Reduction
In most cases, a controlled vocabulary is a subset of
                        the natural or uncontrolled vocabulary, but sometimes it is a new set of
                        invented terms. This might sound odd until we consider that the
                    goal of a controlled vocabulary is to reduce the number of descriptive terms
                    assignable to a resource. Stated this way the problem is one of 
                    dimensionality reduction,
transforming 
                        a high-dimensional space into a lower-dimensional one. 
                    Reducing the number of components in a multidimensional description can be accomplished by many
                    different statistical techniques that go by names like 
                    "feature extraction,"
"principle components analysis,"
"orthogonal decomposition,"
"latent semantic analysis,"
"multidimensional scaling," and "factor analysis."

These techniques might sound
                    imposing and they are computationally complex, but they all have the same simple
                    concept at their core, that the features or properties that describe some
                    resource are often highly correlated. For example, a document that contains the
                    word "car" is more likely to contain the words
                        "driver" and "traffic" than a document that does
                    not. Similar correlations exist among the visual features used to describe
                    images and the acoustic features that describe music. Dimensionality reduction
                    techniques analyze the correlations between resource descriptions to transform a
                    large set of descriptions into a much smaller set of uncorrelated ones. In a way
                    this implements the principle of Sufficiency and Necessity we mentioned in §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description" because it eliminates description dimensions or
                    properties that do not contribute much to distinguishing the resources.
Here is an oversimplified example that illustrates the idea.
                    Suppose we have a collection of resources, and every resource described as
                        "big" is also described as "red," and every
                        "small" resource is also "green." This perfect
                    correlation between color and size means that either of these properties is
                    sufficient to distinguish "big red" things from "small
                        green" ones, and we do not need clever algorithms to figure that out.
                    But if we have thousands of properties and the correlations are only partial, we
                    need the sophisticated statistical approaches to choose the optimal set of
                    description properties and terms, and in some techniques the dimensions that
                    remain are called "latent" or "synthetic" ones because
                    they are statistically optimal but do not map directly to resource
                    properties.


4.3.5. Designing the Description Form
By this step in the process of resource description we have made
                numerous important decisions about which resources to describe, the purposes for
                which we are describing, them, and the properties and terms we will use in the
                descriptions. As much as possible we have described the steps at a conceptual level
                and postponed discussion of implementation considerations about the notation,
                syntax, and deployment of the resource descriptions separately or in packages.
                Separating design from implementation concerns is an idealization of the process of
                resource description, but is easier to learn and think about resource description
                and organizing systems if we do. We discuss these implementation issues in Chapter 8, "The Forms of Resource Descriptions".
Sometimes we have to confront legacy technology, existing or
                potential business relationships, regulations, standards conformance, performance
                requirements, or other factors that have implications for how resource descriptions
                must or should be implemented, stored, and managed. We will take this more pragmatic
                perspective in Chapter 10, 
The Organizing System Roadmap,
 but until then, we will continue to focus on design issues and defer
                discussion of the implementation choices.

4.3.6. Creating Resource Descriptions
Resource descriptions can be created by
                    professionals, by the authors or creators of resources, by users, or by
                    computational or automated means. From the traditional perspective of
                library and information science with its emphasis on bibliographic description,
                these modes of creation imply different levels of description complexity and
                sophistication; Taylor and Joudrey suggest that professionals create
                    rich descriptions, untrained users at best create
                    structured ones, and automated processes create
                    simple ones.
 This classification reflects a disciplinary and historical bias
                more than reality. "Simple" resource descriptions are "no more
                    than data extracted from the resource itself... the search engine approach to
                    organizing the web through automated indexing techniques."
 It might be fair to describe an inverted index implementation of
                a Boolean information retrieval model as simple, but it is clearly wrong to consider
                what Google and other search
                    engines do to describe and retrieve web
                    resources as simple.
 A better notion of levels of resource description is one based on
                the amount of interpretation imposed by the
                description, an approach that focuses on the descriptions themselves rather than on
                their methods of creation. We will discuss this sort of approach in §4.4.1, "Describing Museum and Artistic Resources" in the context of describing museum and artistic resources.
Professionally-created resource descriptions, author- or
                    user-created descriptions, and computational or automated descriptions each have
                    strengths and limitations that impose tradeoffs. A natural solution is
                to try to combine desirable aspects from each in hybrid approaches. For example, the
                vocabulary for a new resource domain may arise from tagging by end users but then be refined by professionals, lay
                classifiers may create descriptions with help from software tools that suggest
                possible terms, or software that creates descriptions can be improved by training it with human-generated descriptions.
Often existing resource descriptions can or must be transformed or
                enhanced to meet the ongoing needs of an organizing system, and sometimes these
                processes can be automated. We will defer further discussion of those situations to
                    Chapter 9, "Interactions with Resources". In the discussion that follows we focus on the
                creation of new resource descriptions where none yet exist.
4.3.6.1. Resource Description by Professionals
Before the web made it possible for almost anyone to create, publish, and
                        describe their own resources and to describe those created and published by others,
                    resource description was generally done by professionals in institutional
                    contexts. Professional indexers and catalogers
                        described bibliographic and museum resources after having been trained to
                        learn the concepts, controlled descriptive vocabularies, and the relevant
                        standards.
In information systems domains professional data and
                        process analysts, technical writers, and others created similarly rigorous
                        descriptions after receiving analogous training. We have called
                    these types of resource descriptions institutional ones to highlight the
                    contrast between those created according to standards and those created
                    informally in ad hoc ways,
                    especially by untrained or undisciplined individuals.
                

4.3.6.2. Resource Description by Authors or Creators
The author or creator of a resource can be presumed to
                    understand the reasons why and the purposes for which the resource can be used.
                    And, presumably, most authors want to be read, so they will describe their
                    resources in ways that will appeal to and be useful to their intended users.
                    However, these descriptions are unlikely to use the controlled vocabularies and
                    standards that professional catalogers would use.

4.3.6.3. Resource Description by Users
Today's web contains a staggering number of resources, most of
                    which are primary information resources published as web content, but many
                    others are resources that stand for "in the world"
physical resources. Most of these resources are being
                    described by their users rather than by professionals or by their authors. These
                        "at large" users are most often creating
                        descriptions for their own benefit when they assign tags or ratings to web resources, and they are unlikely to
                    use standard or controlled descriptors when they do so. The resulting variability can be a problem if creating the
                    description requires judgment on the tagger's part. Most people can agree on the
                    length of a particular music file but they may differ wildly when it comes to
                    determining to which musical genre that file belongs. Fortunately most web users
                    implicitly recognize that the potential value in these "Web
                            2.0" or "user-generated
                            content" applications will be greater if they avoid
                    egocentric descriptions. In addition, the statistics of large sample sizes
                    inevitably leads to some agreement in descriptions on the most popular
                    applications because idiosyncratic descriptions are dominated in the frequency
                    distribution by the more conventional ones.
                
Metacrap
In an often-cited essay (Doctorow, 2001)
                        provocatively titled 
                            "Metacrap: Putting the torch to seven
                                straw-men of the meta-utopia,"
                        
Cory Doctorow argues that much human-created metadata
                            is of low quality because "people lie, people
                            are lazy, people are stupid, mission
                            impossible—know thyself, schemas are not neutral,
                            metrics influence results, (and) there is more than one way to describe
                            something."


We are not suggesting that professional
                    descriptions are always of high quality and utility, and socially produced ones
                    are always of low quality and utility. Rather, it is important to understand the limitations and
                    qualifications of descriptions produced in each way. Tagging lowers the barrier to entry for description, making
                    organizing more accessible and creating descriptions that reflects a variety of
                    viewpoints. However, when many tags are associated with a resource, it increases
                        recall
                    while decreasing precision 
                (§4.3.6.3, "Resource Description by Users").

4.3.6.4. Computational and Automated Resource Description
When a digital camera takes a picture, it
                    creates a description in the EXIF file format using properties
                    associated with the camera and its settings, as well as some properties of the
                    context in which the photo is taken. (See Figure 4.5, "Contrasting Descriptions for a Work of Art."
                    for an example). Creating the description by hand would be laborious, especially
                    if constructed retroactively. The downside, however, is that the automated
                    description does not capture the meaning or purpose of the photo. The automated
                    description might contain information about time and place, but not that people
                    in the picture were on a honeymoon vacation. The difference between automated and human description is called the
                            semantic gap (§3.4.2.5).

Some computational approaches create resource
                        descriptions that are similar in purpose to those created by human
                        describers. For example, Hu and Lui created a text mining and
                    summarization system for customer comments about products for sale on the web.
                    Thousands of comments about a particular digital camera are reduced to a list of
                    the most important features.
                    People shopping for books at 
Amazon.com
 get insights about a book's content and
                    distinctiveness from the statistically improbable phrases that it has identified
                    by comparing all the books for which it has the complete text.
                
Of course, all information retrieval systems compare a
                    description of a user's needs with descriptions of the resources that might
                    satisfy them. IR systems differ in the resource properties they
                    emphasize; word frequencies and distributions for documents in digital
                    libraries, links and navigation behavior for web pages, acoustics for music, and
                    so on. These different property descriptions determine the comparison algorithms
                    and the way in which relevance or similarity of descriptions is determined.
                        We say a lot more about this in §4.4, "Describing Non-text Resources" and in Chapter 9.



4.3.7. Evaluating Resource Descriptions
Evaluation is implicit in many of the activities of organizing
                systems we described in Chapter 2, "Activities in Organizing Systems" and is explicit when we maintain
                a collection of resources over time. In this section, we focus on the narrower
                problem of evaluating resource descriptions.

Evaluating means determining quality with respect
                    to some criteria or dimensions. Many different sets of criteria have been
                    proposed, but the most commonly used ones are accuracy, completeness, and
                    consistency. Other typical criteria are timeliness, interoperability, and usability.
                It is easy to imagine these criteria in conflict; efforts to achieve accuracy and
                completeness might jeopardize timeliness; enforcing consistency might preclude
                modifications that would enhance usability.
Stop and Think: Defining Quality 
What characteristics or criteria would you use to determine the quality of a car?  
                    Of food? Of clothing?  Of a place to live?  
                    Which of these criteria are domain-specific, and which ones apply more generally to many types of resources?
                   
                

The quality of the outcome of the multi-step process proposed in
                    this chapter is a composite of the quality created or squandered at each
                    step.
A scope that is too granular or abstract, overly ambitious
                    or vague intended purposes, a description vocabulary that is hard to use, or
                    giving people inadequate time to create good descriptions can all cause quality
                    problems, but none of these decisions is visible at the end of the process where
                    users interact with resource descriptions.

4.3.7.1. Evaluating the Creation of Resource Descriptions
When professionals create resource
                    descriptions in a centralized manner, which has long been the standard practice
                    for many resources in libraries, there is a natural focus on quality at the point
                    of creation to ensure that the appropriate controlled vocabularies and standards
                    have been used. However, the need for resource description generalizes to
                    resource domains outside of the traditional bibliographic one, and other
                        quality
                    considerations emerge in those contexts.
Resource descriptions in
                        private sector firms are essential to running the business and in
                        interacting efficiently with suppliers, partners, and customers. Compared to
                        the public sector, there is much greater emphasis on the economics and
                        strategy of resource description.
What is the value of resource
                        description? Who will bear the costs of producing them? Which of the
                        competing industry standards will be followed? Some of these
                    decisions are not free choices as much as they are constraints imposed as a
                    condition of doing business with a dominant economic partner, which is sometimes
                    a governmental entity.
For example, a firm like Wal-Mart
                    with enormous market power can dictate terms and standards to its suppliers
                    because the long-term benefits of a Wal-Mart contract usually make the initial
                    accommodation worthwhile. Likewise, governments often require their suppliers to
                    conform to open standards to avoid lock-in to proprietary technologies.
                        
                
In both the public and private sectors there is
                        increased use of computational techniques for creating resource descriptions
                        because the number of resources to be described is simply too great to allow
                        for professional description.
A great deal of work in text data mining, web page
                        classification, semantic enrichment, and other similar research areas is
                        already under way and is significantly lowering the cost of producing useful
                        resource descriptions.
Some museums have embraced approaches that
                        automatically create user-oriented resource descriptions and new user
                        interfaces for searching and browsing by transforming the professional
                        descriptions in their internal collections management
                        systems.
Google's ambitious project to digitize millions of books has
                    been criticized for the quality of its algorithmically extracted resource
                    descriptions, but we can expect that computer scientists will put the
                        Google book corpus to good use as a research test bed to
                    improve the techniques.
                

4.3.7.2. Evaluating the Use of Resource Descriptions
The user's perspective is embodied in the FRBR
                    statement of the purposes of bibliographic description
                            (§4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"), but the problems of
                    resource description on the web have highlighted this point of view. The most
                    important quality criteria are now functional ones—do the
                    resource descriptions satisfy their intended purposes in a usable way? In many
                    ways, the answer is a disappointing no.
The design of a description vocabulary circumscribes
                        what can be said about a resource, so it is important to recognize that it
                        implicitly determines what cannot be said as well, with unintended negative
                        consequences for users. The resource description schema implemented in a physician's
                        patient management system defines certain types
                    of recordable information about a patient's visit—the
                    date of the visit, any tests that were ordered, a diagnosis that was made, a
                    referral to a specialist. The schema, and its associated workflow, impose
                    constraints that affect the kinds of information medical professionals can
                    record and the amount of space they can use for those descriptions. Moreover,
                    such a schema might also eliminate vital unstructured space that paper records
                    can provide, where doctors communicate their rationale for a diagnosis or
                    decision without having to fit it into any particular box.

4.3.7.3. The Importance of Iterative Evaluation
The inevitable conflicts between quality goals
                        mean that there will be compromises among the quality
                        criteria. Furthermore, increasing scale in an organizing system and the steady
                    improvements of computational techniques for resource description imply that the
                    nature of the compromise will change over time. As a result, a single evaluation
                    of resource descriptions at one moment in time will not suffice.
This makes usage records, navigation history, and
                    transactional data extremely important kinds of resource descriptions because
                    they enable you to focus efforts on improving quality where they are most needed.
                    Furthermore, for organizing systems with many types of resources and user
                    communities, this information can enable the tailoring of the nature and extent
                    of resource description to find the right balance between "rich and
                        comprehensive" and "simple and efficient" approaches.
                        Each combination of resource type and user
                        community might have a different solution.

The idea that quality is a
                        property of an end-to-end process is embodied in the "quality
                            movement" and statistical process
                            control for industrial processes but it applies equally
                        well to resource description. The central idea is that quality cannot be
                    tested in by inspecting the final products. Instead, quality is achieved
                    through process control—measuring and removing the
                    variability of every process needed to create the products. 
                    Explicit feedback from users or implicit feedback from
                        the records of their resource interactions needs are essential as we iterate
                        through the design process and revisit the decisions made there.














4.4. Describing Non-text Resources
Many of the principles and methods for resource description were developed
            for describing text resources in physical formats. Those principles have had to evolve
            to deal with different types of resources that people want to describe and organize,
            from paintings and statues to MP3s, JPEGs, and
            MPEGs.
Some descriptions for non-text resources are text-based, and
                are most often assigned by people. Other descriptions are in non-text
            formats are extracted algorithmically from the content of the non-text resource. These
            latter content-based resource descriptions capture intrinsic technical properties but
            cannot (yet) describe aboutness in a
            reliably complete manner.
4.4.1. Describing Museum and Artistic Resources
The problems associated with describing multimedia
                    resources are not all new. Museum curators have been grappling with
                them since they first started to collect, store, and describe
artifacts hundreds of years ago. Many
                    artifacts may represent the same work (think about
                    shards of pottery that may once have been part of the same
                    vase). The materials and forms do not convey semantics on
                their own. Without additional research and description, we know nothing about the
                    vase; it does not come with any sort of title page or tag
                that connects it with a 9th-century Mayan settlement. Since
                    museums can acquire large batches of artifacts all at once,
                    they have to make decisions about which resources they can afford to describe
                    and how much they can describe them.

The German art historian Erwin Panofsky first codified one approach to these problems of description. In his
                classic 
Studies in Iconology
, he defined three levels of description that can be applied to an artistic
                work or museum artifact:Primary subject matterAt this level, we describe the most basic elements
                                    of a work in a generic way that would be recognizable by anyone
                                    regardless of expertise or training. The painting The
                                        Last Supper, for example, might be described as
                                        "13 people having dinner."

Secondary subject
                            matterHere, we introduce a level of basic cultural
                                    understanding into a description. Someone familiar with a common
                                    interpretation of the Bible, for example, could now see
                                        The Last Supper as representing Jesus
                                    surrounded by his disciples.
Intrinsic meaning or
                            interpretationAt this level, context and deeper understanding come
                                    into play—including what the creator of
                                    the description knows about the situation in which the work was
                                    created. Why, for example, did this particular artist create
                                    this particular depiction of The Last
                                        Supper in this way? Panofsky posited that
                                    professional art historians are needed here, because they are
                                    the ones with the education and background necessary to draw
                                    meaning from a work.


In other words, Panofsky saw the need for many different types of
                    descriptors—including physical, cultural, and contextual
—to work together when making a full description of an
                    artifact.
The contrasts between descriptions created by technology and those
                created by people are striking. Figure 4.5, "Contrasting Descriptions for a Work of Art." shows the EXIF
                description created by a digital camera of a marble statue, along with some
                descriptions of the statue that conform to Panofsky's three-level scheme for
                describing works of art.
Figure 4.5. Contrasting Descriptions for a Work of Art.


Descriptions for works of art can contrast a
                                great deal, especially between those captured by a device like a
                                digital camera and those created by people. Furthermore, the
                                descriptions created by people differ according to the expertise of
                                the creator and the amount of subjective interpretation applied in
                                the description.

(Photo by R. Glushko. 
                            The statue, titled "Venus," was made by 
                            Lucio Carusi,
                            of Carrara, Italy,
                            and is currently part of a private collection.)



4.4.2. Describing Images
Digital cameras,
                    including those in cell phones, take millions of photos
                    each day. Unlike the images in museums and galleries, most of these
                images receive few descriptions beyond those created by the device that made them. 
                 
                Nevertheless, a great many of them end up with some limited
                descriptions in Facebook,
                    Instagram, Flickr,
                    Picasa, DeviantArt, or
                others of the numerous places where people share images, or in professional image
                applications like Light Room. All of these sites provide
                some facilities for users to assign tags to images or arrange them in named
                groups.
Computer image analysis techniques are increasingly used to
                    create content-based descriptions.
The 
                    visual signature
                of an image is extracted from low-level features like color, shape, texture, and
                luminosity, which are then used to distinguish significant regions and objects.
                Image similarity is computed to create categories of images that contain the same
                kinds of objects or settings.

For computers to identify the objects or people in
                        images—creating the kinds of resource descriptions
                    that people want—requires training with tags or
                    labels. Louis van Ann devised a clever way to collect large amounts of
                labeled images with a web-based game that randomly pairs people to suggest labels or
                tags for an image. Typically, the obvious choices are removed from contention, so a
                photo of a bird against a blue sky might already strike "bird" and
                    "sky" from the set of acceptable words, leaving users to suggest
                words such as "flying" and "cloudless." This technique was later adopted by Google to
                improve its image search. An analogous effort to automatically identify people in Facebook
                photos uses photos where people identified themselves or others in photo.

4.4.3. Describing Music
A DJ Describes and Organizes Music


Casual music fans might
                                    describe their music using the names of the songs or performers
                                    and might organize it according to genres like
                                        "Pop,"
"Rock," or "Classical." A professional
                                    DJ, however, emphasizes different properties, especially the
                                    beats per minute of the music. 

This annotated photo shows a portion of the music
                                collection of noted DJ "Kid Kameleon"
                                (http://kidkameleon.com/ ), who was a graduate student at the
                                    UC Berkeley School of Information when he
                                took this photo in 2007.
(Photo and annotation by 
                                Matt Earp. 
                                Used with permission.)




Some parts of describing a
                    song are not that different from describing
                    text: You might want to pull out the name of the singer and/or the
                songwriter, the length of the song, or the name of the album on which it appears.
                    But what if you wanted to describe the actual
                    content of the song? You could write out the lyrics, but describing the
                music itself requires a different approach. A DJ, for example, might care greatly
                about the beats per minute in each song.
If you are making a playlist for a road trip, you
                might be seeking songs that you would describe as
                    "good for driving"
—though you would have to figure out what "good for
                    driving" means first, which is a highly subjective description. If you
                are looking for recommendations for new bands, you might want to know how to find
                music that is somehow like music you already know you love.
Several people and companies working in multimedia have explored
                different processes for how songs are described. On the heavily technological side,
                software applications such as Shazam and
                    Midomi can create a content-based audio
                    fingerprint from a snippet of music. 
                Audio fingerprinting 
                    renders a digital description of a piece of music, which a computer can then interpret and
                compare to other digital descriptions in a library.

On the other hand, the online radio service
                    Pandora uses music experts, not computers, to create
                text-based descriptions. The company employs an army of coders, including trained
                musicologists, who listen to individual pieces of music and determine which words
                from Pandora's highly controlled vocabulary for musical
                description apply to a given song. The result is Pandora's
                    "Music Genome," an algorithm that ultimately recommends songs for
                its users by stripping down the songs they say they like to their component parts
                and suggesting, for example, more songs with "driving bass" or
                    "jangly guitars."


4.4.4. Describing Video
Video is yet another resource domain where work
                    to create resource descriptions to make search
                    more effective is ongoing.
Video analytics techniques can segment a video into
                shorter clips described according to their color, direction of motion, size of
                objects, and other characteristics. Identifying anomalous events and faces of people
                in video has obvious applications in security and
                    surveillance. Identifying specific content details about a video currently takes a
                significant amount of human intervention, though it is possible that image 
                
signature-matching algorithms will take over in the
                future because they would enable automated ad placement in videos and
                    television.
            

4.4.5. Describing Resource Context
As we discussed in §3.4, "Naming Resources",
                    sensors are now making all sorts of objects
                    "smarter," capable of reporting their status, their location,
                    or other important descriptive data. Many applications of
                smart resources are still in their infancy, and that makes
                them interesting to study for how descriptions can be created automatically and
                processed (automatically, by people, or both).
Some sensors create relatively simple
                    descriptions: A pass that registers a car's location at a toll
                        booth, for example, does not need to do much besides communicate
                    that the particular sensor has arrived at some location. In essence, it acts as
                    an identifier.

The information created or tracked by
                        sensors can be more complex. Some
                    sensors can calculate
                    location using GPS coordinates and satellite tracking, while others can take readings of temperature,
                    pollution, or other environmental
                    measurements. These readings can be used separately or combined into
                richer and more detailed descriptions of a resource or event. The tradeoffs in
                    creating these descriptions likely sound
                familiar by now: More descriptors can create a fuller and more accurate picture of
                the world, but they require more processing power
                not only to collect the necessary information but also to render it into a
                meaningful form.
            













Self-Review

Question









Answer




4.5. Key Points in Chapter Four
Switch to Quiz Mode
What is the purpose of resource
                        description?

Resource description is not an end in itself. Its many
                        purposes are all means for enabling and using an organizing system for some
                        collection of resources.
See §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"
                        (final paragraph).

What is the disciplined process for
                        describing resources?

The process of describing resources involves several
                        interdependent and iterative steps, including determining scope, focus and
                        purposes, identifying resource properties, designing the description
                        vocabulary, designing the description form and implementation, and creating
                        and evaluating the descriptions.
See §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources" and
                            Figure 4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources."

What are some of the different names
                        given to the terms used in resource descriptions?

In different contexts, the terms in resource descriptions
                        are called keywords, index terms, attributes, attribute values, elements,
                        data elements, data values, or "the vocabulary," labels, or
                        tags.
See §4.2.2, ""Description" as an Inclusive Term"

What is a descriptor?


                        In the library science context
                    of bibliographic
                        description, a 
descriptor
 is one of the terms in a carefully designed language that
                        can be assigned to a resource to designate its properties, characteristics,
                        or meaning, or its relationships with other resources.

See §4.2.2, ""Description" as an Inclusive Term"

What is the dominant historical
                        framework for resource description? What is an alternative?

The dominant historical view treats resource descriptions
                        as a package of statements, an alternate framework focuses on each
                        individual description or assertion about a single resource.
See §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"

What is a bibliographic
                        record?

A bibliographic description of an information resource is
                        most commonly realized as a structured record in a standard format that
                        describes a specific resource.
See §4.2.2.1, "Bibliographic Descriptions"

What are the four generic purposes
                        for resource descriptions?

The Functional Requirements for Bibliographic
                                Records (FRBR) 
                        presents four purposes that apply
                        generically: Finding, Identifying, Selecting, and Obtaining
                        resources.
See §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"

What is the relationship between
                        metadata and bibliographic description?

Metadata is structured description for information
                        resources of any kind, which makes it a superset of bibliographic
                        description.
See §4.2.2.2, "Metadata"

What is RDF?

The Resource Description Framework (RDF) is a language for making computer-processable statements
                        about web resources that is the foundation for the vision of the Semantic
                        Web.
See §4.2.2.4, "Resource Description Framework (RDF)"

What is the relationship between RDF
                        and bibliographic description?


RDF can be used for bibliographic description, and some
                        libraries are exploring whether RDF transformations of
                        their legacy bibliographic records can be exposed and integrated with
                        resource descriptions on the open web.
See §4.2.2.4, "Resource Description Framework (RDF)"

Why are schemas or models important
                        in resource description?

A collection of resource descriptions is vastly more
                        useful when every resource is described using common description elements or
                        terms that apply to every resource; this specification is most often called
                        a schema or model.
See §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description"

What is a database schema?

A relational database schema is designed to restrict
                        resource descriptions to be simple and completely regular sets of
                        attribute-value pairs.
See §4.2.2.2, "Metadata"

What are XML schemas used for?


XML schemas are often used to define web forms that capture
                        resource instances, and are also used to describe the interfaces to web
                        services and other computational resources.
See §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description"

What is the value of standardization
                        of resource description?

When the task of
                            resource description is standardized, the work can be distributed among
                            many describers whose results are shared. This is the principle
                        on which centralized bibliographic description has been based for a
                        century.
See §4.3.1.3, "Scope, Scale, and Resource Description"

What is the value of having multiple
                        descriptions for the sane resource?

Any particular resource might need many resource
                        descriptions, all of which relate to different properties, depending on the
                        interactions that need to be supported and the context in which they take
                        place.
See §4.3.3, "Identifying Properties"

What kinds of resource descriptions
                        are most important in interactions with digital resources?

The variety and functions of the interactions with digital
                        resources depends on the richness of their structural, semantic, and format
                        description.
See §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"

What are the two important dimensions
                        for understanding resource properties?

Two important dimensions for understanding and contrasting
                        resource properties are whether the properties are intrinsically or
                        extrinsically associated with the resource, and whether the properties are
                        static or dynamic.
See §4.3.3, "Identifying Properties"

What are contextual
                        properties?



Contextual
                                properties
 are those related to the situation or context in which a
                        resource is described. Dey defines context as "any
                            information that characterizes a situation related to the interactions
                            between users, applications, and the surrounding environment."

See §4.3.3.4, "Extrinsic Dynamic Properties"


What are the key principles guiding
                        design of a description vocabulary?

Design of the
                            description vocabulary should focus on the user of the descriptions.
                            Svenonius proposes five principles for a description vocabulary: user
                            convenience, representation, sufficiency and necessity, standardization,
                            and integration.

See §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources"

What is a controlled
                        vocabulary?

A controlled vocabulary is a fixed or closed set of
                        description terms in some domain with precise definitions that is used
                        instead of the vocabulary that people would otherwise use.
                    A controlled vocabulary reduces synonymy and homoynmy.

Who should create resource
                        descriptions?

Professionally created resource descriptions, author or
                        user created descriptions, and computational or automated descriptions each
                        have strengths and limitations that impose tradeoffs.
See §4.3.6, "Creating Resource Descriptions"

How are resource descriptions used in
                        information retrieval?

Information retrieval is characterized as comparing a
                        description of a user's needs with descriptions of the resources that might
                        satisfy them. Different property descriptions determine the comparison
                        algorithms and the way in which relevance or similarity of descriptions is
                        determined.
See §4.2.1, "Naming {and, or, vs.} Describing"

What are common criteria for
                        evaluating resource descriptions?

The most commonly used criteria for evaluating resource
                        descriptions are accuracy, completeness, and consistency. Other typical
                        criteria are timeliness, interoperability, and usability.
See §4.3.7, "Evaluating Resource Descriptions"

What are the implications when
                        resource descriptions are created by sensors?

Sensors that assign resource descriptors can create a
                        fuller and more accurate picture of the world, but they require more
                        processing power to collect the necessary information and render it into a
                        meaningful form.
See §4.4.5, "Describing Resource Context"

Resource description is not an end in itself. Its many
                        purposes are all means for enabling and using an organizing system for some
                        collection of resources.
See §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"
                        (final paragraph).

The process of describing resources involves several
                        interdependent and iterative steps, including determining scope, focus and
                        purposes, identifying resource properties, designing the description
                        vocabulary, designing the description form and implementation, and creating
                        and evaluating the descriptions.
See §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources" and
                            Figure 4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources."

In different contexts, the terms in resource descriptions
                        are called keywords, index terms, attributes, attribute values, elements,
                        data elements, data values, or "the vocabulary," labels, or
                        tags.
See §4.2.2, ""Description" as an Inclusive Term"


                        In the library science context
                    of bibliographic
                        description, a 
descriptor
 is one of the terms in a carefully designed language that
                        can be assigned to a resource to designate its properties, characteristics,
                        or meaning, or its relationships with other resources.

See §4.2.2, ""Description" as an Inclusive Term"

The dominant historical view treats resource descriptions
                        as a package of statements, an alternate framework focuses on each
                        individual description or assertion about a single resource.
See §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"

A bibliographic description of an information resource is
                        most commonly realized as a structured record in a standard format that
                        describes a specific resource.
See §4.2.2.1, "Bibliographic Descriptions"

The Functional Requirements for Bibliographic
                                Records (FRBR) 
                        presents four purposes that apply
                        generically: Finding, Identifying, Selecting, and Obtaining
                        resources.
See §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"

Metadata is structured description for information
                        resources of any kind, which makes it a superset of bibliographic
                        description.
See §4.2.2.2, "Metadata"

The Resource Description Framework (RDF) is a language for making computer-processable statements
                        about web resources that is the foundation for the vision of the Semantic
                        Web.
See §4.2.2.4, "Resource Description Framework (RDF)"


RDF can be used for bibliographic description, and some
                        libraries are exploring whether RDF transformations of
                        their legacy bibliographic records can be exposed and integrated with
                        resource descriptions on the open web.
See §4.2.2.4, "Resource Description Framework (RDF)"

A collection of resource descriptions is vastly more
                        useful when every resource is described using common description elements or
                        terms that apply to every resource; this specification is most often called
                        a schema or model.
See §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description"

A relational database schema is designed to restrict
                        resource descriptions to be simple and completely regular sets of
                        attribute-value pairs.
See §4.2.2.2, "Metadata"


XML schemas are often used to define web forms that capture
                        resource instances, and are also used to describe the interfaces to web
                        services and other computational resources.
See §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description"

When the task of
                            resource description is standardized, the work can be distributed among
                            many describers whose results are shared. This is the principle
                        on which centralized bibliographic description has been based for a
                        century.
See §4.3.1.3, "Scope, Scale, and Resource Description"

Any particular resource might need many resource
                        descriptions, all of which relate to different properties, depending on the
                        interactions that need to be supported and the context in which they take
                        place.
See §4.3.3, "Identifying Properties"

The variety and functions of the interactions with digital
                        resources depends on the richness of their structural, semantic, and format
                        description.
See §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"

Two important dimensions for understanding and contrasting
                        resource properties are whether the properties are intrinsically or
                        extrinsically associated with the resource, and whether the properties are
                        static or dynamic.
See §4.3.3, "Identifying Properties"



Contextual
                                properties
 are those related to the situation or context in which a
                        resource is described. Dey defines context as "any
                            information that characterizes a situation related to the interactions
                            between users, applications, and the surrounding environment."

See §4.3.3.4, "Extrinsic Dynamic Properties"


Design of the
                            description vocabulary should focus on the user of the descriptions.
                            Svenonius proposes five principles for a description vocabulary: user
                            convenience, representation, sufficiency and necessity, standardization,
                            and integration.

See §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources"

A controlled vocabulary is a fixed or closed set of
                        description terms in some domain with precise definitions that is used
                        instead of the vocabulary that people would otherwise use.
                    A controlled vocabulary reduces synonymy and homoynmy.

Professionally created resource descriptions, author or
                        user created descriptions, and computational or automated descriptions each
                        have strengths and limitations that impose tradeoffs.
See §4.3.6, "Creating Resource Descriptions"

Information retrieval is characterized as comparing a
                        description of a user's needs with descriptions of the resources that might
                        satisfy them. Different property descriptions determine the comparison
                        algorithms and the way in which relevance or similarity of descriptions is
                        determined.
See §4.2.1, "Naming {and, or, vs.} Describing"

The most commonly used criteria for evaluating resource
                        descriptions are accuracy, completeness, and consistency. Other typical
                        criteria are timeliness, interoperability, and usability.
See §4.3.7, "Evaluating Resource Descriptions"

Sensors that assign resource descriptors can create a
                        fuller and more accurate picture of the world, but they require more
                        processing power to collect the necessary information and render it into a
                        meaningful form.
See §4.4.5, "Describing Resource Context"












Chapter 5. Describing Relationships and StructuresRobert J. GlushkoMatthew MayernikAlberto PepeMurray Maloney
5.1. Introduction
We can consider a family to be a collection
                of people affiliated by some connections with each other such as common ancestors or
                a common residence. The Simpson family includes a man named Homer and a
            woman named Marge, the married parents of three sibling children, a boy named Bart and
            two girls, Lisa and Maggie. This is a magical family that speaks many languages, but
            always uses the language of the local television station. In the English-speaking
            Simpson family, the boy describes his parents as his father and mother and his two
            siblings as his sisters. In the Spanish speaking Simpson family the boy refers to his
            parents as su padre y su madre and his
            sisters are las hermanas. In the Chinese
            Simpson family Lisa and Maggie refer to each other according to their relative ages;
            Lisa, the elder sister as jiě jie and,
            Maggie, the younger sister as mèi
                mei.
Simpson Family Trees
Because the Simpson family is known throughout the world,
                the Simpson family tree is often used to teach kinship terms to language learners.
                A British website for teaching Spanish
Learning French
Learning German


Kinship relationships are ubiquitous and widely studied, and the names and
            significance of kinship relations like "is parent of" or "is sibling
                of" are familiar ones, making kinship a good starting point for understanding
                relationships in organizing
                systems.
            An organizing system can make use of existing
                relationships among resources, or it can create relationships by applying organizing
                principles to arrange the resources. Organizing systems for digital resources or
                digital description resources are the most likely to rely on explicit relationships
                to enable interactions with the resources.
In a classic book called Data and Reality, William Kent defines a relationship as
                    "an association among several things, with that association having a
                    particular significance."
"The things being associated," the components of the relationship, are
            people in kinship relationships but more generally can be any type of resource (Chapter 3), when we relate one resource instance to
            another. When we describe a resource (Chapter 4),
            the components of the relationship are a primary resource and a description resource. If
            we specify sets of relationships that go together, we are using these common
            relationships to define resource types or classes, which more generally are called
            categories (Chapter 6). We can then use resource
            types as one or both the components of a relationship when we want to further describe
            the resource type or to assert how two resource types go together to facilitate our
            interactions with them.
We begin with a more complete definition of relationship and introduce
            five perspectives for analyzing them: semantic, lexical, structural, architectural, and
            implementation. We then discuss each perspective, introducing the issues that each
            emphasizes, and the specialized vocabulary needed to describe and analyze relationships
            from that point of view. We apply these perspectives and vocabulary to analyze the most
            important types of relationships in organizing systems.












5.2. Describing Relationships: An Overview
The concept of a relationship is pervasive in
                human societies in both informal and formal senses. Humans are inescapably
            related to generations of ancestors, and in most cases they also have social networks of
            friends, co-workers, and casual acquaintances to whom they are related in various ways.
            We often hear that our access to information, money, jobs, and political power is all
            about "who you know," so we strive to "network" with other
            people to build relationships that might help us expand our access. In information systems, relationships between resources embody the
                organization that enables finding, selection, retrieval,
                and other interactions.
Most organizing systems are based on many
                relationships to enable the system to satisfy some intentional purposes with
                individual resources or the collection as a whole. In the domain of
            information resources, common resources include web pages, journal articles, books, data
            sets, metadata records, and XML documents, among many others. Important relationships in the information domain that facilitate
                purposes like finding, identifying, and selecting resources include "is the
                    author of,"
"is published by,"
"has publication date,"
"is derived from,"
"has subject keyword,"
"is related to," and many others.
When we talk about relationships we specify
                both the resources that are associated along with a name or statement about the
                reason for the association. Just identifying the resources involved is not
            enough because several different relationships can exist among the same resources; the
            same person can be your brother, your employer, and your landlord. Furthermore, for many
            relationships the directionality or ordering of the
            participants in a relationship statement matters; the person who is your employer gives
            a paycheck to you, not vice versa. Kent points out that when we
                describe a relationship we sometimes use whole phrases, such as
                    "is-employed-by," if our language does not contain a single word
                that expresses the meaning of the relationship.
We can analyze relationships from several different perspectives: Semantic perspectiveThe semantic perspective is the
                                most essential one; it characterizes the meaning of the association
                                between resources.
                        (§5.3)Lexical perspectiveThe lexical perspective focuses on how the conceptual description
                                of a relationship is expressed using words in a specific language.
                            (§5.4)Structural perspectiveThe structural perspective
                                analyzes the actual patterns of association, arrangement, proximity,
                                or connection between resources.
                            (§5.5)Architectural perspectiveThe architectural perspective
                                emphasizes the number and abstraction level of the components of a
                                relationship, which together characterize its
                                complexity.
                            (§5.6)Implementation perspectiveThe implementation
                                perspective considers how the relationship is implemented in a
                                particular notation and syntax and the manner in which relationships
                                are arranged and stored in some technology
                                environment.
                            (§5.7)The remainder of this chapter is organized around a discussion of these five
            perspectives in the order listed here.











5.3. The Semantic Perspective
To describe relationships among resources, we
                need to understand what the relations mean. This semantic perspective is
            the essence of relationships and explains why the resources are related, relying on
            information that is not directly available from perceiving the resources. In our Simpson family example, we noted that Homer and Marge are related by
            marriage, and also by their relationship as parents of Bart, Lisa, and Maggie, and none
            of these relationships are directly perceivable. This means that "Homer is married to Marge" is a semantic assertion, but
                        "Homer is standing next to Marge" is not.
Semantic relationships are commonly expressed with
                a predicate with one or more arguments.
A predicate
is a verb phrase template for specifying properties of objects
                    or a relationship among objects. In many relationships the
            predicate is an action or association that involves multiple participants that must be
            of particular types, and the arguments define the different roles of the
                participants.
We can express the relationship between Homer and Marge Simpson using a
                predicate(argument(s)) syntax as follows: 

    is-married-to (Homer Simpson, Marge Simpson)
 The sequence, type, and role of the arguments are an essential part
            of the relationship expression. 
            

            The sequence and role are explicitly distinguished when predicates that take
            two arguments are expressed using a subject-predicate-object syntax
            that is often called a triple because of
            its three parts: 

    Homer Simpson → is-married-to → Marge Simpson

However, we have not yet specified what the "is-married-to"
            relationship means. People can demonstrate their understanding of
                "is-married-to" by realizing that alternative and semantically
            equivalent expressions of the relationship between Homer and Marge might be: 

    Homer Simpson → is-married-to → Marge Simpson
    Homer Simpson → is-the-husband-of → Marge Simpson
    Marge Simpson → is-married-to → Homer Simpson
    Marge Simpson → is-the-wife-of → Homer Simpson
 Going one step further, we could say that people understand the
            equivalence of these different expressions of the relationship because they have
            semantic and linguistic knowledge that relates some representation of
                "married,"
"husband,"
"wife," and other words. None of that knowledge is visible in the
            expressions of the relationships so far, all of which specify concrete relationships
            about individuals and not abstract relationships between resource classes or concepts.
            We have simply pushed the problem of what it means to understand the expressions into
            the mind of the person doing the understanding.
We can be more rigorous and define the words used in these expressions
            so they are "in the world" rather than just "in the mind" of
            the person understanding them. We can write definitions about these resource
                classes:
            
The conventional or traditional marriage relationship is a
                        consensual lifetime association between a husband and a wife, which is
                        sanctioned by law and often by religious ceremonies;

A husband is a male lifetime partner considered in relation to
                        his wife; and

A wife is a female lifetime partner considered in relation to
                        her husband.
Definitions like these help a person learn and make some sense of the
            relationship expressions involving Homer and Marge. However, these definitions are not
            in a form that would enable someone to completely understand the Homer and Marge
            expressions; they rely on other undefined terms (consensual, law, lifetime, etc.), and
            they do not state the relationships among the concepts in the definitions. Furthermore, for a computer to understand the expressions, it needs a
            computer-processable representation of the relationships among words and meanings that
            makes every important semantic assumption and property precise and explicit. We will see
            what this takes starting in the next section.
5.3.1. Types of Semantic Relationships
In this discussion we will use entity type,
class,
concept, and resource type as synonyms. 
                Entity type and class are
                conventional terms in data modeling and database design, concept is the conventional term in computational or cognitive
                modeling, and we use resource typewhen we discuss
                organizing systems. Similarly, we will use entity occurrence,
instance, and resource
                    instance when we refer to one thing rather than to a class or type of
                them.
There is no real consensus on how to categorize semantic
                relationships, but these three broad categories are reasonable for our purposes: Inclusion RelationshipOne entity type contains or
                                    is comprised of other entity types; often expressed using
                                        "is-a,"
"is-a-type-of,"
"is-part-of," or "is-in"
                                    predicates.Attribution
                            RelationshipAsserting or assigning values to
                                        properties; the predicate depends on the property:
                                        "is-the-author-of,"
"is-married-to,"
"is-employed-by," etc.Possession RelationshipAsserting ownership or
                                        control of a resource; often expressed using a
                                        "has" predicate, such as
                                        "has-serial-number-plate." All of these are fundamental in organizing systems, both for describing
                and arranging resources themselves, and for describing the relationships among
                resources and resource descriptions.
5.3.1.1. Inclusion
There are three different types of inclusion relationships:
                    class inclusion, meronymic inclusion, and topological inclusion. All three are
                    commonly used in organizing systems.
Class
                            Inclusion
is the fundamental and
                        familiar "is-a,"
"is-a-type-of," or
                                "subset"
                        relationship between two entity types or classes where one is contained in
                        and thus more specific than the other more generic one.

        Meat → is-a → Food

A set of interconnected class inclusion relationships creates a
                    hierarchy, which is often called a taxonomy. 
        Meat → is-a → Food
        Dairy Product → is-a → Food
        Cereal → is-a → Food
        Vegetable → is-a → Food
        Beef → is-a → Meat    
        Pork → is-a → Meat
        Chicken → is-a → Meat
        Ground Beef → is-a → Beef
        Steak → is-a → Beef
        ...
 A visual depiction of the taxonomy makes the class hierarchy
                    easier to perceive. See Figure 5.1, "A Partial Taxonomy of Food."
Figure 5.1. A Partial Taxonomy of Food.
A partial taxonomy of
                                    food distinguishes the categories or prepared food from meat,
                                    distinguishes chicken, beef, and pork as subcategories of meat,
                                    and distinguishes ground beef and steak as some of the
                                    subcategories of the beef category.

Each level in a taxonomy subdivides the class above it into
                    sub-classes, and each sub-class is further subdivided until the differences that
                    remain among the members of each class no longer matter for the interactions the
                    organizing system needs to support. We discuss the
                        design of hierarchical organizing systems in §6.3, "Principles for Creating
                        Categories."
All of the examples in the current section
                    have expressed abstract relationships between classes, in contrast to the
                    earlier concrete ones about Homer and Marge, which expressed relationships
                    between specific people. Homer and Marge are instances of classes like
                        "married people,"
"husbands," and "wives."

When we make an assertion
                        that a particular instance is a member of class, we are classifying the
                        instance.
Classification
                        is a class inclusion relationship between an instance and a
                            class rather than between two classes. (We discuss
                    Classification in detail in Chapter 7). 
                    
        Homer Simpson → is-a → Husband
 
                    This is just the lowest level of the class hierarchy in which
                    Homer is located at the very bottom; he is also a man, a human being, and a
                    living organism (in cartoon land, at least). You might now remember the bibliographic class inclusion hierarchy
                    we discussed in §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"; a specific physical item like your dog-eared copy of
                        Macbeth is also a particular
                        manifestation in some format or genre, and this
                        expression is one of many
                    for the abstract work.

        instance→ is-member-of → class

Part-whole
                                inclusion or meronymic
                                inclusion is a second type of inclusion
                        relationship. It is usually expressed using "is-part-of,"
"is-partly," or with other similar predicate
                        expressions. Winston, Chaffin, and Herrmann identified six distinct
                    types of part-whole relationships. Their meaning subtly differs depending on
                    whether the part is separately identifiable and whether the part is essential to
                    the whole.
                    
Component-Object
is the relationship type when the part is a separate
                                    component that is arranged or assembled with other components to
                                    create a larger resource. In §3.1.1.1, "Resources
                                    with Parts," we used as an example the component-object
                                relationship between an engine and a car: 
        The Engine → is-part-of → the Car


The components of this type of part-whole
                                relationship need not be physical objects; "Germany is part of
                                    the European Union" expresses a component-object
                                relationship. What matters is that the component is identifiable on
                                its own as an integral entity and that the components follow some
                                kind of patterned organization or structure when they form the
                                whole. Together the parts form a composition, and the parts
                                collectively form the whole. A car that lacks the engine part will
                                not work.

Member-Collection is the part-whole
                                    relationship type where "is-part-of" means
                                        "belongs-to," a weaker kind of association than
                                    component-object because there is no assumption that the
                                    component has a specific role or function in the whole. 
         The Book → is-part-of → the Library
The members of the collection exist independently
                                of the whole; if the whole ceases to exist the individual resources
                                still exist. 

Portion-Mass is the relationship type when all
                                    the parts are similar to each other and to the whole, unlike
                                    either of the previous types where engines are not tires or
                                    cars, and books are not like record albums or
                                    libraries.

        The Slice → is-part-of → the Pie



Stuff-Object relationships are most often
                                    expressed using "is-partly" or
                                        "is-made-of" and are distinguishable from
                                    component-object ones because the stuff cannot be separated from
                                    the object without altering its identity. The stuff is not a
                                    separate ingredient that is used to make the object; it is a
                                    constituent of it once it is made. 
        Wine → is-partly → Alcohol 


Place-Area
                                    relationships exist between areas and specific places or
                                    locations within them. Like members of collections, places have
                                    no particular functional contribution to the whole. 
        The Everglades → are-part-of → Florida


Feature-Activity is a relationship type in
                                    which the components are stages, phases, or sub activities that
                                    take place over time. This relationship is similar to
                                    component-object in that the components in the whole are
                                    arranged according to a structure or pattern. 
        Overtime → is-part-of → a Football Game



A seventh type of part-whole relationship called Phase-Activity was
                    proposed by Storey.
                    
Phase-Activity is similar to feature-activity except that the phases do not
                                    make sense as standalone activities without the context provided
                                    by the activity as a whole.
        Paying → is-part-of → Shopping



Topological, Locative
                        and Temporal Inclusion is a
                    third type of inclusion relationship
                    between a container, area, or temporal duration and what it surrounds or
                    contains. It is most often expressed using "is-in" as the
                    relationship. However, the entity that is contained or surrounded is not a part
                    of the including one, so this is not a part-whole relationship.
        The Vatican City → is-in → Italy
        The meeting → is-in → the afternoon




5.3.1.2. Attribution
In contrast to
                        inclusion expressions that state relationships between resources, attribution
relationships assert or assign values to properties for
                            a particular resource. In Chapter 4 we used "attribute" to mean "an
                        indivisible part of a resource description" and treated it as a
                    synonym of "property."
We now need to be more precise and carefully
                        distinguish between the type of the attribute and the value that it has.
                        For example, the color of any object is an attribute of the object, and the
                            value of that attribute might be
                            "green."
Some frameworks for semantic modeling
                    define "attribute" very narrowly, restricting it to expressions
                    with predicates with only one argument to assert properties of a single
                    resource, distinguishing them from relationships between resources or resource
                    types that require two arguments:
                    
        Martin the Gecko → is-small
        Martin the Gecko → is-green 
 However, it is always possible to express statements like
                    these in ways that make them into relationships with two arguments: 
        Martin → has-size → small
        Martin → has-skin-color → green 


Another somewhat tricky aspect of attribution
                    relationships is that from a semantic perspective, there are often many
                    different ways of expressing equivalent attribute values. 
        Martin → has-size → 6 inches
        Martin → has size → 152 mm        
These two statements express the idea that Martin is small.
                    However, many implementations of attribution relationships treat the attribute
                    values literally. This means that unless we can process these two statements
                    using another relationship that expresses the conversion of inches to mm, the
                    two statements could be interpreted as saying different things about Martin's
                    size.
Finally, we note that we can express attribution relationships
                    about other relationships, like the date a relationship was established. Homer
                    and Marge Simpson's wedding anniversary is an attribute of their
                        "is-married-to" relationship.

5.3.1.3. Possession
A third distinct category of semantic
                    relationships is that of possession. Possession relationships can seem superficially like part-whole
                    ones: 
        Bob → has → a car
        A car → has → wheels
 However, in the second of these relationships
                        "has" is an elliptical form of "has as a part,"
                    expressing a part-whole relationship rather that one of possession.
The concept of possession is especially
                    important in institutional organizing systems, where questions of ownership,
                    control, responsibility and transfers of ownership, control, and responsibility
                    can be fundamental parts of the interactions they support. However, possession
                    is a complex notion, inherently connected to societal norms and conventions
                    about property and kinship, making it messier than institutional processes might
                    like.
Possession relationships also imply 
                    duration or persistence, 
                    and are often
                    difficult to distinguish from relationships based on habitual location or
                    practice. Miller and Johnson-Laird illustrate the complex nature of possession
                    relationships with this sentence, which expresses three different types of
                        them:
                    
He owns an umbrella but
                                    she's borrowed it, though she doesn't have it with
                                    her.




5.3.2. Properties of Semantic Relationships
Semantic relationships can have numerous
                    special properties that help explain what they mean and especially how they
                    relate to each other. In the following sections we briefly explain
                those that are most important in systems for organizing resources and resource
                descriptions.
5.3.2.1. Symmetry
In most relationships the order in
                        which the subject and object arguments are expressed is central to the
                        meaning of the relationship. If X has a relationship with Y, it is
                    usually not the case that Y has the same relationship with X. For example,
                    because "is-parent-of" is an asymmetric
                    relationship, only the first of these relationships holds: 
Homer Simpson → is-parent-of → Bart Simpson (TRUE)
    Bart Simpson → is-parent-of → Homer Simpson (NOT TRUE)       
 In contrast, some relationships are symmetric or bi-directional, and reversing the
                    order of the arguments of the relationship predicate does not change the
                    meaning. As we noted earlier, these two statements are semantically equivalent
                    because "is-married-to" is symmetric: 

    Homer Simpson → is-married-to → Marge Simpson
    Marge Simpson → is-married-to → Homer Simpson                   
 We can represent the symmetric and bi-directional nature of these relationships by
                    using a double-headed arrow: 
    Homer Simpson ⇔ is-married-to ⇔ Marge Simpson        



5.3.2.2. Transitivity
Transitivity is another property that can
                        apply to semantic relationships. When a relationship is transitive, if X and
                        Y have a relationship, and Y and Z have the same relationship, then X also
                        has the relationship with Z. Any relationship based on ordering is
                        transitive, which includes numerical, alphabetic, and chronological ones as
                        well as those that imply qualitative or quantitative measurement.
                    Because "is-taller-than" is transitive: 

    Homer Simpson → is-taller-than → Bart Simpson
    Bart Simpson → is-taller-than → Maggie Simpson                   
 implies that: 

    Homer Simpson → is-taller-than → Maggie Simpson        


Inclusion relationships are inherently transitive, because
                    just as "is-taller-than" is an assertion about relative physical
                    size, "is-a-type of" and "is-part-of" are assertions
                    about the relative sizes of abstract classes or categories.  An example of transitivity in
                            part-whole or meronymic relationships is: (1) the carburetor is part of the engine,
                            (2) the engine is part of the car, (3) therefore, the carburetor is part
                            of the car. 
                    
                    
                    
Transitive relationships enable inferences
                        about class membership or properties, and allow organizing systems to be
                        more efficient in how they represent them since transitivity enables
                        implicit relationships to be made explicit only when they are
                        needed.

5.3.2.3. Equivalence
Any relationship that is both symmetric and
                            transitive is an equivalence
relationship; "is-equal-to" is obviously an
                        equivalence relationship because if A=B then B=A and if A=B and B=C, then
                        A=C. Other relationships can be equivalent without meaning "exactly
                            equal," as is the relationship of "is-congruent-to"
                        for all triangles.
We often need to assert that
                            a particular class or property has the same meaning as another class or
                            property or that it is generally 
                     
                    substitutable for it. 
                    We make thisexplicit with an equivalence relationship. 
                    
Sister (English) ⇔ is-equivalent-to ⇔ Hermana (Spanish)
        



5.3.2.4. Inverse
For
                        asymmetric relationships, it is often useful to be explicit about the
                        meaning of the relationship when the order of the arguments in the
                        relationship is reversed. The resulting relationship is called the inverse
                        or the converse of the first relationship. If an organizing system
                    explicitly represents that: 
        Is-child-of → is-the-inverse-of → Is-parent-of        
 We can then conclude that: 
        Bart Simpson → is-child-of → Homer Simpson




5.3.3. Ontologies
We now have described types and properties of
                semantic relationships in enough detail to return to the challenge we posed earlier:
                what information is required to fully understand relationships? This question has
                been asked and debated for decades and we will not pretend to answer it to any
                extent here. However, we can sketch out some of the basic parts of the
                solution.
Let us begin by recalling that a taxonomy captures a
                system of class inclusion relationships in some domain. But as we have seen, there
                are a great many kinds of relationships that are not about class inclusion. All of
                these other types of relationships represent knowledge about the domain that is
                potentially needed to understand statements about it and to make sense when more
                than one domain of resources or activities comes together.
For example, in the food domain whose partial taxonomy appears in
                    §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships", we can assert relationships about properties of
                classes and instances, express equivalences about them, and otherwise enhance the
                representation of the food domain to create a complex network of relationships. In
                addition, the food domain intersects with food preparation, agriculture, commerce,
                and many other domains. We also need to express the relationships among these
                domains to fully understand any of them. 

        Hamburger → is-equivalent-to → Ground Beef
        Hamburger → is-prepared-by → Grilling
        Grilling → is-a-type-of → Food Preparation
        Hamburger Sandwich → is-a-type-of → Prepared Food
        BigMac → is-a → Hamburger Sandwich
        A bun → is-part-of → Hamburger Sandwich
        A bun → is-partly → flour
        Temperature → is-a-measure-of → Grilling
        Rare → is-a → State of Food Preparation
        Well-done → is-a → State of Food Preparation
        Meat → is-preserved-by → Freezing
        Thawing → is-the-inverse-of → Freezing
        ...
        
In this simple example we see that class inclusion relationships
                form a kind of backbone to which other kinds of relationships attach. We also see
                that there are many potentially relevant assertions that together represent the
                knowledge that just about everyone knows about food and related domains. A network
                of relationships like these creates a resource that is called an 
                ontology. A visual depiction of the ontology illustrates this idea that it has a
                taxonomy as its conceptual scaffold. (See Figure 5.2, "A Partial Ontology of Food.")
Figure 5.2. A Partial Ontology of Food.
A partial ontology of food overlays the taxonomy of
                                food with statements that make assertions about categories,
                                instances, and relationships in the food domain. Example statements
                                might be that "Grilling is a type of food preparation,"
                                    that"Meat is preserved by freezing," and that
                                    "Hamburger is equivalent to ground
                            beef."

Ontologies are essential parts in some
                    organizing systems, especially information-intensive ones where the scope and
                    scale of the resources require an extensive and controlled description
                    vocabulary.
(See §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources".)
The most extensive ontology ever created is Cyc, born in 1984 as
                an artificial intelligence research project. Three decades later, the latest version
                of the Cyc ontology contains several hundred thousand terms and millions of
                assertions that interrelate them.












5.4. The Lexical Perspective
The semantic perspective for analyzing
                relationships is the fundamental one, but it is intrinsically tied to the lexical
                one because a relationship is always expressed using words in a specific
                language. For example, we understand the relationships among the concepts
            or classes of "food,"
"meat," and "beef" by using the words "food,"
"meat," and "beef" to identify progressively smaller classes
            of edible things in a class hierarchy.
The connection
                    between concept and words is not so simple. In the Simpson
            family example with which we began this chapter, we noted with "father" and
                "padre" that languages differ in the words they use to describe
            particular kinship relationships. Furthermore, we pointed out that cultures differ in
            which kinship relationships are conceptually distinct, so that languages like Chinese
            make distinctions about the relative ages of siblings that are not made in
                English.
        
This is not to suggest that an English speaker
            cannot notice the difference between his older and younger sisters, only that this
            distinction is not lexicalized—captured in a single
                word—as it is in Chinese. 
            
            This "missing word" in English from the perspective of Chinese
            is called a lexical gap. Exactly when
            a lexical gap exists is sometimes tricky, because it depends on how we define
                "word"
—polar bear and sea horse are not lexicalized but they are a
            single meaning-bearing unit because we do not decompose and reassemble meaning from the
            two separate words. These "lexical gaps" differ from language to language,
            whereas "conceptual gaps"
—the things we cannot think of or directly experience, like the
            pull of gravity— may be innate and universal. We revisit this
            issue as "linguistic relativity" in Chapter 6. 
Earlier in this book we discussed the naming of resources (§3.4.2, "The Problems of Naming") and the design of a
            vocabulary for resource description (§4.3.1.3, "Scope, Scale, and Resource Description"), and we explained how increasing the scope
            and scale of an organizing system made it essential to be more systematic and precise in
            assigning names and descriptions. We need to be sure that the
                terms we use to organize resources capture the similarities and differences between
                them well enough to support our interactions with them. After our
            discussion about semantic relationships in this chapter, we now have a clearer sense of
            what is required to bring like things together, keep different things separate, and to
            satisfy any other goals for the organizing system.
For example, if we are organizing cars, buses,
            bicycles, and sleds, all of which are vehicles, there is an important distinction
            between vehicles that are motorized and those that are powered by human effort. It might
            also be useful to distinguish vehicles with wheels from those that lack them. Not making
            these distinctions leaves an unbalanced or uneven organizing system for describing the
            semantics of the vehicle domain. However, only the "motorized" concept is
            lexicalized in English, which is why we needed to invent the "wheeled
                vehicle" term in the second case.
Simply put, we need to use words effectively
                in organizing systems. To do that, we need to be careful about how we talk about the
                relationships among words and how words relate to concepts. There are two
            different contexts for those relationships. 
First, we need to discuss relationships among the meanings of words (§5.4.1) and the most commonly used
                        tool for describing them (§5.4.2) 

Second, we need to discuss relationships among the form of words.
                        (§5.4.3, "Relationships among Word Forms")

5.4.1. Relationships among Word Meanings
There are several different types of
                    relationships of word meanings.
Not surprisingly, in most cases they parallel the types of
                    relationships among concepts that we described in §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective".
5.4.1.1. Hyponymy and Hyperonymy
When words encode the
                        semantic distinctions expressed by class inclusion, the word for the more
                        specific class in this relationship is called the 
                        hyponym, 
                        while
                        the word for the more general class to which it belongs is called the
                        hypernym. George Miller suggested an exemplary formula
                    for defining a hyponym as its hypernym preceded by adjectives or followed by
                    relative clauses that distinguish it from its co-hyponyms, mutually exclusive subtypes of the same hypernym. 
    hyponym = {adjective+} hypernym {distinguishing clause+}

For example, robin is a hyponym of bird, and could be defined
                    as "a migratory bird that has a clear melodious song
                        and a reddish breast with gray or black upper plumage." This
                    definition does not describe every property of robins, but it is sufficient to
                    differentiate robins from bluebirds or eagles.

5.4.1.2. Metonymy
Part-whole or
                        meronymic semantic relationships have lexical analogues in
                                metonomy, when an entity is described by
                        something that is contained in or otherwise part of it. A country's
                    capital city or a building where its top leaders reside is often used as a
                    metonym for the entire government: "The White House announced
                        today..." Similarly, important concentrations of business activity
                    are often metonyms for their entire industries: "Wall Street was bailed
                        out again..."

5.4.1.3. Synonymy
Synonymy is the relationship between words that express the
                        same semantic concept.The
                        strictest definition is that synonyms
"are words that can replace each other
                            in some class of contexts with insignificant changes of the whole text's
                            meaning." This is an extremely hard test to pass, except for acronyms or
                    compound terms like "USA,"
"United States," and "United States of America" that
                    are completely substitutable.
Most synonyms are not absolute synonyms like the
                    aforementioned, and instead are considered propositional synonyms.
                        Propositional synonyms
are not identical in meaning, they are equivalent
                            enough in most contexts in that 
                         
                            substituting one for the other will not change the truth value
                        of the sentence that uses them. This weaker test lets us treat word
                    pairs as synonyms even though their meanings differ in subtle ways. For example,
                    if we know that Lisa Simpson plays the violin, because "violin" and
                        "fiddle" are propositional synonyms, no one would disagree with
                    an assertion that Lisa Simpson can play the fiddle.


An unordered set of synonyms is often called a synset, a term
                    first used by the 
                    
WordNet
"semantic dictionary" project started in 1985 by George Miller and others at Princeton's Cognitive Science
                        program.
                    Instead of using spelling as the primary
                        organizing principle for words, WordNet uses their semantic properties and
                        relationships to create a network that captures the idea that words and
                        concepts are an inseparable system.
Synsets are interconnected by both semantic
                        relationships and lexical ones, enabling navigation in either
                        space.

5.4.1.4. Polysemy
We introduced the lexical relationship of
                        polysemy, when a word has several different meanings or senses,
                    in the context of problems with names (§3.4.2.2, "Homonymy, Polysemy, and False Cognates"). For example, the word
                        "bank" can refer to any number of objects and activities: river
                    bank, money bank, bank shots in basketball and billiards, an aircraft maneuver,
                    to name a few.
Polysemy is represented in WordNet by including a word in multiple
                    synsets. This enables WordNet to be an extremely
                    useful resource for sense disambiguation in natural language processing research
                    and applications. When a polysemous word is encountered, it and the words that
                    are nearby in the text are looked up in WordNet. By
                    following the lexical relationships in the synset hierarchy, a "synset
                        distance" can be calculated. The smallest semantic distance between
                    the words, which identifies their most semantically specific hypernym, can be
                    used to identify the correct sense. For example, in the sentence: 
                    Put the money in the bank 
                    Two of the three WordNet senses for "money" are: 
                    1) the most common medium of exchange2) the official currency issued by a government or national bank and the first two of the ten WordNet senses for "bank" are: 1) a financial institution that accepts deposits2) sloping land, especially the slope beside a body of water 
                    The synset hierarchies for the two senses of "money"
                    intersect after a very short path with the hierarchy for the first sense of "bank", 
                    but do not intersect with the second sense of "bank" until they reach
                    very abstract concepts.
                

5.4.1.5. Antonymy
Antonymy
is the lexical relationship between two words that have opposite
                        meanings. Antonymy is a very
                        salient lexical relationship, and for adjectives it is even more powerful
                        than synonymy. In word association tests, when the probe word is a
                    familiar adjective, the most common response is its antonym; a probe of
                        "good" elicits "bad," and vice versa. Like
                    synonymy, antonymy is sometimes exact and sometimes more graded.
Contrasting or binary
                            antonyms are used in mutually exclusive contexts
                        where one or the other word can be used, but never both. For example,
                            "alive" and "dead" can never be used at the
                        same time to describe the state of some entity, because the meaning of one
                        excludes or contradicts the meaning of the other.
Other antonymic relationships between word
                    pairs are less semantically sharp because they can sometimes appear in the same
                    context as a result of the broader semantic scope of one of the words. "Large" and "small," or
                            "old" and "young" generally suggest particular
                        regions on size or age continua, but "how large
                            is it?" or "how old is it?" can
                        be asked about resources that are objectively small or
                        young.


5.4.2. Thesauri
The words that people naturally use when
                    they describe resources reflect their unique experiences and perspectives, and
                    this means that people often use different words for the same resource and the
                    same words for different ones. Guiding people when they select
                description words from a controlled
                    vocabulary is a partial solution to this vocabulary problem
(§3.4.2.1, "The Vocabulary Problem") that becomes
                increasingly essential as the scope and scale of the organizing system grows.
                    A thesaurus is a reference work that organizes words
                    according to their semantic and lexical relationships.
Thesauri are often used by professionals when they describe
                    resources.
Thesauri have been created for many domains and subject areas. Some
                thesauri are very broad and contain words from many disciplines, like the Library of Congress Subject Headings (LOC-SH) used to classify any published content. Other commonly used thesauri
                are more focused, like the 
                
Art and Architecture Thesaurus (AAT) developed by the Getty Trust and
                the Legislative Indexing Vocabulary 
                developed by the Library of Congress.

We can return to our simple food taxonomy to illustrate how a thesaurus
                annotates vocabulary terms with lexical and semantic relationships. The class
                inclusion relationships of hypernomy
                and hyponymy are usually encoded
                using BT ("broader term") and NT
                    ("narrower term"): 
        Food BT Meat
        Beef NT Meat
 The BT and NT relationships in a thesaurus create a hierarchical
                system of words, but a thesaurus is more than a lexical taxonomy for some domain
                because it also encodes additional lexical relationships for the most important
                words. Many thesauri emphasize the cluster of relationships for these key words and
                de-emphasize the overall lexical hierarchy.

5.4.3. Relationships among Word Forms
The relationships among word meanings are
                    critically important. Whenever we create, combine, or compare resource
                    descriptions we also need to pay attention to relationships between word forms.
                    These relationships begin with the idea that all natural languages create words
                    and word forms from smaller units.
The basic building
                    blocks for words are called morphemes
and can express semantic concepts (when they are called root words ) or abstract concepts like
                        "pastness" or "plural"). The analysis of the ways
                    by which languages combine morphemes is called morphology.
Simple examples illustrate this:
                    "dogs" = "dog" (root) + "s"
                        (plural)"uncertain" = "certain" (root) +
                            "un" (negation)"denied" = "deny" (root) +
                            "ed" (past tense) 

Morphological analysis of a language is heavily used in text
                    processing to create indexes for information retrieval. For example,
                    stemming
(discussed in more detail in Chapter 9) is morphological processing which removes
                prefixes and suffixes to leave the root form of words. Similarly, simple text
                processing applications like hyphenation and spelling correction solve word form
                problems using roots and rules because it is more scalable and robust than solving
                them using word lists. Many misspellings of common words (e.g., "pain")
                are words of lower frequency (e.g., "pane"), so adding
                    "pane" to a list of misspelled words would occasionally identify it
                incorrectly. In addition, because natural languages are generative and create new
                words all the time, a word list can never be complete; for example, when
                    "flickr" occurs in text, is it a misspelling of
                    "flicker" or the correct spelling of the popular photo-sharing
                site?
5.4.3.1. Derivational Morphology
Derivational
                                morphology
deals with how words are created by combining morphemes.
Compounding, putting two "free morphemes" together
                    as in "batman" or "catwoman," is an extremely powerful
                    mechanism. The meaning of some compounds is easy to understand when the first
                    morpheme qualifies or restricts the meaning of the second, as in
                        "birdcage" and "tollbooth." However, many compounds take on new meanings that are not as
                    literally derived from the meaning of their constituents, like
                        "seahorse" and "batman."
Other types of derivations using "bound"
                    morphemes follow more precise rules for combining them with "base"
                    morphemes. The most common types of bound morphemes are prefixes and suffixes,
                    which usually create a word of a different part-of-speech category when they are
                    added. Familiar English prefixes include "a-,"
"ab-,"
"anti-,"
"co-,"
"de-,"
"pre-," and "un-." Among the most common English
                    suffixes are "-able,"
"-ation,"
"-ify,"
"ing,"
"-ity,"
"-ize,"
"-ment," and "-ness." Compounding and adding prefixes
                    or suffixes are simple mechanisms, but very complex words like
                        "unimaginability" can be formed by using them in
                    combination.

5.4.3.2. Inflectional Morphology
Inflectional mechanisms change the form of a word to represent tense,
                        aspect, agreement, or other grammatical information. Unlike derivation,
                        inflection never changes the part-of-speech of the base morpheme. The
                            inflectional morphology of English is
                        relatively simple compared with other languages.













5.5. The Structural Perspective
The structural perspective analyzes the association, arrangement,
                proximity, or connection between resources without primary concern for their meaning
                or the origin of these relationships. We take a structural perspective when we define a family as "a
                collection of people" or when we say that a particular family like the
            Simpsons has five members. Sometimes all we know is that two resources are connected, as
            when we see a highlighted word or phrase that is pointing from the current web page to
            another. At other times we might know more about the reasons for the relationships
            within a set of resources, but we still focus on their structure, essentially merging or
            blurring all of the reasons for the associations into a single generic notion that the
            resources are connected. 
Travers and Milgram conducted a now-famous study in the 1960s
            involving the delivery of written messages between people in the midwestern and eastern
            United States. If a person did not know the intended recipient, he was instructed to
            send the message to someone that he thought might know him. The study demonstrated what
            Travers and Milgram called the "small world problem," in which any two
            arbitrarily selected people were separated by an average of fewer than six links. 
It is now common to analyze the number of "degrees of
                separation" between any pair of resources. For example, Markoff and Sengupta
            describe a 2011 study using Facebook data that computed the
            average "degree of separation" of any two people in the Facebook world to
            be 4.74.
Stop and Think: Kevin Bacon Numbers
See http://oracleofbacon.org/ for a web-based demonstration of
                    "Kevin Bacon Numbers," which measure the average degrees of
                separation among more than 2.6 million actors in more than 1.9 million movies. Its
                name reflects in the parlour game "Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon," a pun on "six degrees of separation" that is
                often associated with Travers and Milgram's work; the game relies on the remarkable
                variety of Bacon's roles, and hence the number of fellow actors in his movies (two
                actors in the same movie have one degree of separation). Bacon's Bacon Number is
                2.994, but it turns out that more than 300 actors are closer to the center of the
                movie universe than Bacon. Try some famous actors and see if their Bacon Numbers are
                greater or smaller than Bacon's. (Hint: older actors have been in more
                movies.)

Many types of resources have internal
                structure in addition to their structural relationships with other
                resources. Of course, we have to remember (as we
                discussed in §3.3, "Resource Identity") that we often face arbitrary
            choices about the abstraction and granularity with which we describe the parts that make
            up a resource and whether some combination of resource should also be identified as a
            resource. This is not easy when you are analyzing the structure of a car with its
            thousands of parts, and it is ever harder with information resources where there are
            many more ways to define parts and wholes. However, an advantage for information
            resources is that their internal structural descriptions are usually highly
                "computable," something we consider in depth in Chapter 9, "Interactions with Resources".
5.5.1. Intentional, Implicit, and Explicit Structure
In the
                    discipline of organizing we emphasize "intentional structure"
                    created by people or by computational processes rather than accidental or
                    naturally-occurring structures created by physical, geological, biological or
                    genetic processes. We acknowledged in §1.2.3, "The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement""
that there is information in the piles of debris left after a tornado or
                tsunami and in the strata of the Grand Canyon. These structural patterns might be of
                interest to meteorologists, geologists, or others but because they were not created
                by an identifiable agent following one or more organizing principles, they are not
                our primary focus.
Some organizing
                        principles impose very little structure.
For a small collection of resources, co-locating
                    them or arranging them near each other might be sufficient
                    organization. We can impose two- or three-dimensional coordinate
                systems on this "implicit structure" and explicitly describe the
                location of a resource as precisely as we want, but we more naturally describe the
                structure of resource locations in relative terms. In English we have many ways to
                describe the structural relationship of one resource to another: "in,"
"on,"
"under,"
"behind,"
"above,"
"below,"
"near,"
"to the right of,"
"to the left of,"
"next to," and so on. Sometimes several resources are arranged or
                appear to be arranged in a sequence or order and we can use positional descriptions
                of structure: a late 1990s TV show described the planet Earth as "the third
                    rock from the Sun."
We pay most attention to intentional
                    structures that are explicitly represented within and between resources because
                    they embody the design or authoring choices about how much implicit or latent
                    structure will be made explicit.
Structures that can be reliably extracted by algorithms
                    become especially important for very large collections of resources whose scope
                    and scale defy structural analysis by people.
Stop and Think: Intentional, implicit/explicit structure
Find a map of the states (or provinces or other administrative divisions) in
                    the country where you live. You probably think of some set of these states as
                    members of a collection. Other than their literal arrangement - e.g., "x
                        is next to y, y is east of z" - how could you describe their
                    relationships to each other within the collection? Are these relationships based
                    on natural or unintentional properties or intentional ones? Example: in the
                    United States, California, Oregon, and Washington are considered the "West
                        Coast" and the Pacific Ocean determines their western boundaries.
                    Some of the borders between the states are natural, determined by rivers, and
                    other borders are more intentional and arbitrary, specified by latitude and
                    longitude. 


5.5.2. Structural Relationships within a Resource
We almost always think of human and other
                    animate resources as unitary entities. Likewise, many physical resources like
                    paintings, sculptures, and manufactured goods have a material integrity that
                    makes us usually consider them as indivisible. For an information resource,
                    however, it is almost always the case that it has or might have had some
                    internal structure or sub-division of its constituent data
                elements.
In fact, since all computer files are merely encodings of bits,
                bytes, characters and strings, we can say with some certainty that most digital
                resources exhibit some internal structure, even if that structure is only
                discernible by software agents. The internal formats of word processing files, for
                example, have changed many times since their invention in the mid-twentieth century,
                converging on XML in the early twenty-first century.
When an author writes a document, he or she gives it some internal
                organization with its title, section headings, typographic conventions, page
                numbers, and other mechanisms that identify its parts and their significance or
                relationship to each other. The lowest level of this structural hierarchy, usually
                the paragraph, contains the text content of the document. Sometimes the author finds
                it useful to identify types of content like glossary terms or cross-references
                within the paragraph text. Document models that mix
                    structural description with content "nuggets" in the text are said
                    to contain mixed content. (See the
                sidebar.)
Mixed Content
Mixed
                                content distinguishes XML
                        from other data representation languages. It is this structural feature,
                        combined with the fact that child nodes in the XML Infoset
                            (§8.2.2.2) are ordered, that
                        makes it possible for XML documents to function both as
                        human reader-oriented, textual documents and as structured data formats. It
                        allows us to use natural language in writing descriptions while still
                        enabling us to identify content by type by embedding markup to enclose
                            "semantic nuggets" in otherwise undifferentiated
                        text.
 The 
                    Guidelines for Electronic Text Encoding and Interchange, 
                    produced by the Text Encoding
                                Initiative (TEI), 
                    for example, includes a set of elements and
                    attributes for Names, Dates, People and Places.

In data-intensive or
                transactional domains, document instances tend to be homogeneous because they
                are produced by or for automated processes, and their information components
                will appear predictably in the same structural relationships with each
                other. These structures typically form a hierarchy expressed in an
                XML schema or word processing style template.
                XML documents describe their component parts using
                content-oriented elements like <ITEM>, <NAME>, and <ADDRESS>, that are
                themselves often aggregate structures or containers for more granular elements. The
                structures of resources maintained in databases are typically less hierarchical, but
                the structures are precisely captured in database schemas.
The internal parts of XML documents can be described,
                found and selected using the XPath language, which defines the structures and
                patterns used by XML forms, queries, and transformations. The key
                idea used by XPath is that the structure of XML documents is a tree
                of information items called nodes, whose locations are described in terms of the
                relationships between nodes. The relationships built into XPath, which it calls
                axes, include self, child, parent, following, and preceding, making it very easy to
                specify a structure-based query like "find all sections in Chapter 1 through
                    Chapter 5 that have at least two levels of subsections." In addition, tools like Schematron take advantage of XPath's structural
                descriptions to test assertions about a document's structure and content. For
                example, a common editorial constraint might be that a numbered list must have at
                least three items.
In more qualitative, less information-intensive and more
                experience-intensive domains, we move toward the narrative end of the Document Type
                Spectrum, and document instances become more heterogeneous because they are produced
                by and for people. (See the sidebar, The Document Type Spectrum in §3.2.1.) The information conveyed in the
                documents is conceptual or thematic rather than transactional, and the structural
                relationships between document parts are much weaker. Instead of precise structure
                and content rules, there is usually just a shallow hierarchy marked up with Word
                processing or HTML tags like <HEAD>, <H1>, <H2>, and <LIST>.
Structural Metadata
Structural metadata, in the form of a schema for a database or
                    document, describes a class of information resources, and may also prescribe
                    grammatical details of inclusion and attribution relationships among the
                    components. For example, the chapters of this book contain four levels of
                    subsections. Each of those sections contains a title, some paragraphs and other
                    text blocks, and subordinate sections. The textual content of the paragraphs
                    includes highlighted terms and phrases that are defined in situ and referenced again in the
                    glossary and index; there are also bibliographic citations that are reflected in
                    the bibliography and index. We can discover these characteristics of a book
                    through observation, but we could also examine its structural metadata, in its
                    schema.
Structural metadata allows us to
                        describe and prescribe relations among database tables, within the chapters
                        of a book, or among parts in an inventory management system. The
                    schema for HTML, for example, informs us that the <A>
                    element can be used to signal a hypertext link-end; whether that link-end is an
                    anchor or a target, or both, depends on the combination of values assigned to
                    attributes. In HTML, the optional REL attribute may
                    contain a value that signals the purpose of a hypertext link, and any HTML
                    element may include a CLASS attribute value that
                    may be used as a CSS selector for the purposes of formatting or dynamic
                    interactions.
The usefulness of any given schema is often a function of the
                    precision with which we may make useful statements based upon the descriptions
                    and prescriptions it offers. Institutional schemas tend to be more prescriptive
                    and restrictive, stressing professional orthodoxy and conformance to controlled
                    vocabularies. Schemas for the information content in social and informal
                    applications tend to be less prescriptive. Whether and how we use structural
                    metadata is a tradeoff. Structural metadata is essential to enable quality
                    control and maintenance in information collection and publishing processes, but
                    someone has to do the work to create it.

Stop and Think: Structural Metadata for a Course Syllabus
Analyze the structure of your syllabus for this course. 
                    What are its structural elements and some of the rules that specify how they are organized?  
                    Remember, think in terms of structural elements and not presentational elements.  
                    How does this structural schema compare to those of other course syllabi?  
                    What kinds of interactions would be enabled if all of your courses used the same syllabus schema?

The internal structural hierarchy in a
                    resource is often extracted and made into a separate and familiar description
                    resource called the "table of contents" to support finding and
                    navigation interactions with the primary resource. In a printed media
                context, any given content resource is likely to only be presented once, and its
                page number is provided in the table of contents to allow the reader to locate the
                chapter, section or appendix in question. In a hypertext media context, a given
                resource may be a chapter in one book while being an appendix in another. Some
                tables of contents are created as a static structural description, but others are
                dynamically generated from the internal structures whenever the resource is
                accessed. In addition, other types of entry points can be generated from the names
                or descriptions of content components, like selectable lists of tables, figures,
                maps, or code examples.
DocBook Schema
The schema most commonly used for producing technical books is
                    called DocBook; it describes every XML element and attribute and prescribes
                    their grammatical forms. The schema lets us know that a formal paragraph must
                    include a title, and that a title may contain emphasis. A schema can also
                    describe and prescribe the lexical value space of a postal code, or require that
                    every list must have at least three items. The DocBook schema is well-documented
                    and has been production-tested in institutional publishing contexts for over
                    twenty years.
Identifying the components and their structural relationships in
                documents is easier when they follow consistent rules for structure (e.g., every
                non-text component must have a title and caption) and presentation (e.g., hypertext links in web pages are
                underlined and change cursor shapes when they are "moused over") that
                reinforce the distinctions between types of information components. Structural and
                presentation features are often ordered on some dimension (e.g., type size, line
                width, amount of white space) and used in a correlated manner to indicate the
                importance of a content component.
Many indexing algorithms
                    treat documents as "bags of words" to compute statistics about the
                    frequency and distribution of the words they contain while ignoring all
                    semantics and structure. In Chapter 9, we contrast this approach with algorithms that use internal structural
                descriptions to retrieve more specific parts of documents.

5.5.3. Structural Relationships between Resources
Many types of resources have
                        "structural relationships" that interconnect them. Web
                pages are almost always linked to other pages. Sometimes the links among a set of
                pages remain mostly within those pages, as they are in an e-commerce catalog site.
                More often, however, links connect to pages in other sites, creating a link network
                that cuts across and obscures the boundaries between sites.
The links between documents can be
                    analyzed to infer connections between the authors of the documents.
                Using the pattern of links between documents to understand the structure of
                knowledge and of the intellectual community that creates it is not a new idea, but
                it has been energized as more of the information we exchange with other people is on
                the web or otherwise in digital formats. An important function in
                    Google's search engine is the page rank algorithm that calculates the relevance of a page in part
                using the number of links that point to it while giving greater weight to pages that
                are themselves linked to often.
Web-based social networks enable people to express
                their connections with other people directly, bypassing the need to infer the
                connections from links in documents or other communications.
5.5.3.1. Hypertext Links
The
                        concept of read-only or follow-only structures that connect one document to
                        another is usually attributed to Vannevar Bush in his seminal 1945 essay titled "As We May Think."
                        Bush called it "associative
                            indexing," defined as "a provision whereby any item may be
                            caused at will to select immediately and automatically
                        another." The "item" connected in this way was for Bush most
                    often a book or a scientific article. However, the anchor and destination of a
                        hypertext
                            link can be a resource of any granularity,
                    ranging from a single point or character, a paragraph, a document, or any part
                    of the resource to which the ends of link are connected. The anchor and
                    destination of a web link are its structural specification, but we often need to
                    consider links from other perspectives. (See the
                        sidebar, Perspectives on Hypertext Links).
Transclusion
The inclusion, by
                        hypertext reference, of a resource or part of a resource into another
                        resource is called transclusion. Transclusion is normally
                        performed automatically, without user intervention. The inclusion of
                        images in web documents is an example of transclusion. Transclusion is a
                        frequently used technique in business and legal document processing,
                        where re-use of consistent and up-to-date content is essential to
                        achieve efficiency and consistency.

Theodor Holm Nelson, in a book intriguingly titled Literary Machines,
                        renamed associative indexing as hypertext decades later, expanding the idea to
                        make it a writing style as well as a reading style. Nelson urged writers to use hypertext to create non-sequential
                    narratives that gave choices to readers, using a novel technique for which he
                    coined the term 
                    transclusion.
At about the same time, and without knowing about Nelson's work,
                        Douglas Engelbart's 
                            Augmenting the Human Intellect, 
                            described a future world in which professionals
                        equipped with interactive computer displays utilize an information space
                        consisting of a cross-linked resources.
In the 1960s, when computers lacked graphic
                    displays and were primarily employed to solve complex mathematical and
                    scientific problems that might take minutes, hours or even days to complete,
                    Nelson's and Engelbart's visions of hypertext-based personal computing may have
                    seemed far-fetched. In spite of this, by 1968, Engelbart and his team
                    demonstrated human computer interface including the mouse, hypertext, and
                    interactive media, along with a set of guiding principles.
 Hypertext links are now familiar structural mechanisms in
                    information applications because of the World Wide Web, proposed in 1989 by Tim Berners-Lee and Robert Cailliau. They invented the methods for encoding and following hypertext links using the now
                    popular HyperText Markup Language (HTML).
                    The resources connected by HTML's
                        hypertext links are not limited to text or documents. Selecting a hypertext
                        link can invoke a connected resource that might be a picture, video, or
                        interactive application.
Since browsers made them familiar, hypertext links have been
                    used in other computing applications as structure and navigation
                    mechanisms.
Perspectives on Hypertext Links
A lexical perspective on hypertext links
                        concerns the words that are used to signal the presence of a link or to
                        encode its type. In web
                            contexts, the words in which a structural link is embedded are called
                            the anchor
                                text. More generally, rhetorical
                        structure theory analyzes how different conventions or signals in texts
                        indicate relationships between texts or parts of them, like the subtle
                        differences in polarity among "see,"
"see also," and "but see" as citation
                        signals.
Many hypertext links in web pages are purely structural
                        because they lack explicit representation of the reason for the
                        relationship. When it is
                            evident, this semantic property of the link is called the link
                                    type.
An architectural perspective on links considers whether
                        links are one-way or bi-directional. When a bi-directional
                                        link is created between an anchor and a
                                    destination, it is as though a one-way link that can be followed in the
                                    opposite direction is automatically created. Two one-way links serve the
                                    same purpose, but the return link is not automatically established when
                                    the first one is created. A second architectural consideration
                        is whether to employ binary links, connecting one
                        anchor to one destination, or n-ary
                            links, connecting one anchor to multiple types of
                        destinations. (See §5.6).
A "front end" or "surface"
                        implementation perspective on hypertext links concerns how the presence of
                        the link is indicated in a user interface; this is called the "link marker"; underlining or coloring of
                        clickable text are conventional markers for web links. 
                        A "back end" implementation issue is whether links
                        are contained or embedded in the resources they link or whether they are
                        stored separately in a link
                        base. (See §5.7).


5.5.3.2. Analyzing Link Structures
We can portray a set of links between resources graphically as
                    a pattern of boxes and links. Because a link connection from one resource to
                    another need not imply a link in the opposite direction, we distinguish one-way
                    links from explicitly bi-directional ones.
Figure 5.3. Representing Link Structures.
The structure of links
                                    between web resources can be represented graphically or in a
                                    matrix. The matrix representation is a more abstract one that
                                    can be analyzed by computers.

A graphical representation of link
                    structure is shown on the left panel of figure Figure 5.3, "Representing Link Structures.".
                    For a small network of links, a diagram like this one makes it easy to see that
                    some resources have more incoming or outgoing links than other resources.
                    However, for most purposes we leave the analysis of link structures to computer
                    programs, and there it is much better to represent the link structures more
                    abstractly in matrix form. In this matrix the resource identifiers on the row
                    and column heads represent the source and destination of the link. This is a
                    full matrix because not all of the links are symmetric; a link from resource 1
                    to resource 2 does not imply one from 2 to 1.
A matrix representation of the same link
                    structure is shown on the right panel of figure Figure 5.3, "Representing Link Structures.". This representation models the network as a directed graph in which the
                    resources are the vertices and the relationships are the edges that connect
                    them. We now can apply graph algorithms to determine many useful properties.
                        A very important property is reachability, the "can you get there from
                            here" property.
Other useful properties include the average number of
                        incoming or outgoing links, the average distance between any two resources,
                        and the shortest path between them.

5.5.3.3. Bibliometrics, Shepardizing, and Social Network Analysis
Information scientists began studying the structure of scientific citation,
                        now called bibliometrics,
                        nearly a century ago to identify influential scientists and
                        publications. This analysis of the flow of ideas through
                    publications can identify "invisible colleges" of scientists who
                    rely on each other's research, and recognize the emergence of new scientific
                    disciplines or research areas. Universities use
                        bibliometrics to evaluate professors for promotion and tenure, and libraries
                        use it to select resources for their collections.
The expression of citation relationships between
                            documents is especially nuanced in legal contexts, where the use of
                            legal cases as precedents makes it essential to distinguish precisely
                            where a new ruling lies on the relational continuum between
                                "Following" and "Overruling" with respect
                            to a case it cites. The analysis of legal citations to
                        determine whether a cited case is still good law is called Shepardizing because
                        lists of cases annotated in this way were first published in the late 1800s
                        by Frank Shepard, a salesman for a legal publishing company.
Facebook's multi-billion
                    dollar valuation is based on its ability
                    to exploit the structure of a person's social network to personalize
                    advertisements for people and their "friends" to whom they are
                    connected. Many computer science researchers are
                        working to determine the important characteristics of people and
                        relationships that best identify the people whose activities or messages
                        influence others to spend money.













5.6. The Architectural Perspective
The architectural perspective emphasizes the number and abstraction
            level of the components of a relationship, which together characterize the complexity of
            the relationship. We will briefly consider three architectural issues: degree (or
            arity), cardinality, and directionality.
These architectural concepts come from data modeling, and if you
            have not studied computer science or information systems analysis they might be new to
            you. These concepts enable relationships to be described precisely and abstractly, which
            turns out to be critically important when an organizing system that implements
            relationships among resources needs to change. Application and technology lifecycles
            have never been shorter than they are now, and vast amounts of new data are being
            created by increased tracking of online interactions and by all the active resources
            that are now part of the Internet of Things. Organizing systems built without clear
            architectural foundations cannot easily scale up in size and scope to handle these new
            requirements.
5.6.1. Degree
The degree
or arity
of a relationship is the number of entity types or
                        categories of resources in the relationship. This is usually,
                    though not always, the same as the number of arguments in the relationship
                    expression.

    Homer Simpson (husband) ⇔ is-married-to ⇔ Marge Simpson (wife)
 is a relationship of degree 2, a binary relationship between two entity types, because the
                    "is-married-to" relationship as we first defined it requires one of
                the arguments to be of entity type "husband" and one of them to be of
                type "wife."
Now suppose we change the definition of marriage
                to allow the two participants in a marriage to be any instance of the entity type
                    "person." The relationship expression looks exactly the same, but
                its degree is now unary because only 1 entity
                type is needed to instantiate the two arguments: 
    Homer Simpson (person) ⇔ is-married-to ⇔ Marge Simpson (person)


Some relationships are best expressed as
                    ternary ones that involve three different
                entity types. An example that appears in numerous data modeling books is one like
                this: 
    Supplier → provides → Part → assembled-in → Product
 It is always possible to represent ternary relationships as a set
                of binary ones by creating a new entity type that relates to each of the others in
                turn. This new entity type is called a dummy in modeling practice. 
    Supplier → provides → DUMMY
    Part → provided-for → DUMMY
    DUMMY → assembled-in → Product
 This transformation from a sensible ternary relationship to three
                binary ones involving a DUMMY entity type undoubtedly seems strange, but it enables
                all relationships to be binary while still preserving the meaning of the original
                ternary one. Making all relationships binary makes it easier to store relationships
                and combine them to discover new ones.

5.6.2. Cardinality
The cardinality
of a relationship is the number of instances that can be
                        associated with each entity type in a relationship. At
                first glance this might seem to be degree by another name, but it is not.
Cardinality is easiest to explain for binary relationships. If we
                return to Homer and Marge, the binary relationship that expresses that they are
                married husband and wife is a one-to-one relationship because a
                husband can only have one wife and a wife can only have one husband (at a time, in
                monogamous societies like the one in which the Simpsons live).
In contrast, the "is-parent-of"
                relationship is one-to-many, because the meaning of being a parent makes it correct
                to say that: 
Homer Simpson → is-parent-of → Bart AND Lisa AND Maggie
 As we did with the ternary relationship in §5.6.1, "Degree", we can transform this more complex relationship
                architecture to a set of simpler ones by restricting expressions about being a
                parent to the one-to-one cardinality. 
    Homer Simpson → is-parent-of → Bart
    Homer Simpson → is-parent-of → Lisa
    Homer Simpson → is-parent-of → Maggie
 The one-to-many expression brings all three of Homer's children
                together as arguments in the same relational expression, making it more obvious that
                they share the same relationship than in the set of separate and redundant
                one-to-one expressions.

5.6.3. Directionality
The directionality
of a relationship defines the order in which the arguments of the
                    relationship are connected. A one-way or uni-directional relationship can be followed in only one
                    direction, whereas a bi-directional one can
                    be followed in both directions.
All symmetric relationships are
                    bi-directional, but not all bi-directional relationships are symmetric.
                (See §5.3.2.1, "Symmetry".) A relationship between a manager and an
                employee that he manages is "employs," a different meaning than the
                    "is-employed-by" relationship in the opposite direction. As in this
                example, the relationship is often lexicalized in only one direction.












5.7. The Implementation Perspective 
Finally, the implementation perspective on relationships considers how a
            relationship is realized or encoded in a technology context. The implementation
            perspective contrasts strongly with the conceptual, structural, and architectural
            perspectives, which emphasize the meaning and abstract structure of relationships.
                The implementation perspective is a superset of the lexical
                perspective, because the choice of the language in which to express a relationship
                is an implementation decision. However, most people think of implementation
            as all of the decisions about technological form rather than just about the choice of
            words.
In this book we focus on the fundamental issues and challenges that
            apply to all organizing systems, and not just on information-intensive ones that rely
            extensively on technology. Even with this reduced scope, there are some critical
            implementation concerns about the notation, syntax, and deployment of the relationships
            and other descriptions about resources. We briefly introduce some of these issues here
            and then discuss them in detail in Chapter 8, "The Forms of Resource Descriptions".
5.7.1. Choice of Implementation
The choice of implementation determines
                    how easy it is to understand and process a set of relationships. For
                example, the second sentence of this chapter is a natural language implementation of
                a set of relationships in the Simpson family:
The Simpson family includes a man
                        named Homer and a woman named Marge, the married parents of three sibling
                        children, a boy named Bart and two girls, Lisa and Maggie.
A subject-predicate-object syntax makes the relationships more
                explicit: Example 5.1. Subject-predicate syntax
    Homer Simpson → is-married-to → Marge Simpson
    Homer Simpson → is-parent-of → Bart
    Homer Simpson → is-parent-of → Lisa
    Homer Simpson → is-parent-of → Maggie
    Marge Simpson → is-married-to → Homer Simpson
    Marge Simpson → is-parent-of → Bart
    Marge Simpson → is-parent-of → Lisa
    Marge Simpson → is-parent-of → Maggie
    Bart Simpson → is-a → Boy
    Lisa Simpson → is-a → Girl
    Maggie Simpson → is-a → Girl


In the following example of a potential XML
                implementation syntax, we emphasize class inclusion relationships by using elements
                as containers, and the relationships among the members of the family are expressed
                explicitly through references, using XML's ID and IDREF attribute
                    types:
                Example 5.2. An XML implementation syntax
<Family name="Simpson">
    <Parents children="Bart Lisa Maggie">
        <Father name="Homer" spouse="Marge"  />
        <Mother name="Marge" spouse="Homer"  />
    </Parents>
    <Children parents="Homer Marge" >
        <Boy name="Bart" siblings="Lisa Maggie" />
        <Girl name="Lisa" siblings="Bart Maggie" />
        <Girl name="Maggie" siblings="Bart Lisa" />
    </Children>
</Family> 


None of the models we have presented so far in this chapter
                represents the complexities of modern families that involve multiple marriages and
                children from more than one marriage, but they are sufficient for our limited
                demonstration purposes.

5.7.2. Syntax and Grammar
The
                        syntax and grammar of a language consists of the
                        rules that determine which combinations of its words are allowed
                    and are thus grammatical or well-formed. Natural languages differ immensely
                    in how they arrange nouns, verbs, adjectives, and other parts of speech to
                    create sentences.


                Conformance to these rules makes the sentence syntactically compliant
                but does not mean that an expression is semantically comprehensible; the classic
                example is Chomsky's anomalous sentence: 
Colorless green ideas sleep
                                furiously
 Any meaning this sentence has is odd, difficult to visualize, and
                outside of readily accessible experience, but anyone who knows the English language
                can recognize that it follows its syntactic rules, as opposed to this sentence,
                which breaks them and seems completely meaningless: 
Ideas colorless sleep
                                furiously green



5.7.3. Requirements for Implementation Syntax
The most basic requirement for
                    implementation syntax is that it can represent all the expressions that it needs
                    to express. For the examples in this chapter we have used an informal
                combination of English words and symbols (arrows and parentheses) that you could
                understand easily, but simple language is incapable of expressing most of what we
                readily say in English. But this benefit of natural language only accrues to people,
                and the more restrictive and formal syntax is easier to understand for
                computers.
A second consideration is that the
                    implementation can be understood and used by its intended users. We can
                usually express a relationship in different languages while preserving its meaning,
                just as we can usually implement the same computing functionality in different
                programming languages. From a semantic perspective these three expressions are
                equivalent: 
        My name is Homer Simpson
        Mon nom est Homer Simpson
        Mein name ist Homer Simpson
 However, whether these expressions are equivalent for someone
                reading them depends on which languages they understand.
An analogous situation occurs with the
                implementation of web pages. HTML was invented as a language for
                encoding how web pages look in a browser, and most of the tags in
                    HTML represent the simple structure of an analogous print
                document. Representing paragraphs, list items and numbered headings with <P> and <LI> and <Hn> makes using
                    HTML so easy that school children can create web pages.
                However, the "web for eyes" implemented using HTML is
                of less efficient or practical for computers that want to treat content as product
                catalogs, orders, invoices, payments, and other business transactions and
                information that can be analyzed and processed. This "web for
                    computers" is best implemented using domain-specific vocabularies in
                    XML.












5.8. Relationships in Organizing Systems
In the previous sections as we surveyed the five perspectives on
            analyzing relationships we mentioned numerous examples where relationships had important
            roles in organizing systems. In this final section we examine three contexts for
            organizing systems where relationships are especially fundamental; the Semantic Web and Linked Data, bibliographic
            organizing systems, and situations involving system integration and
            interoperability.
5.8.1. The Semantic Web and Linked Data
In a classic 2001 paper, Tim Berners-Lee laid out a vision of a Semantic Web in which all information could be shared and processed
                by automated tools as well as by people.
                The essential technologies for making the web more semantic and
                relationships among web resources more explicit are applications of
                    XML, including RDF
                        (§4.2.2.3, "Tagging of Web-based Resources"), and
                    OWL (§5.3.3, "Ontologies"). Many tools have been developed to support more semantic encoding,
                but most still require substantial expertise in semantic technologies and web
                    standards.
More likely to succeed are applications that aim
                lower, not trying to encode all the latent semantics in a document or web page. For
                example, some wiki and blogging tools contain templates for semantic annotation, and
                    Wikipedia has thousands of templates and "info
                    boxes" to encourage the creation of information in content-encoded
                formats.
Wikipedia Info Boxes


Wikipedia encourages
                                    authors to augment their articles with "info boxes"
                                    that organize sets of structured information generically
                                    relevant to the type of resource that is the subject of the
                                    article. These three examples show parts of the info boxes for
                                        "Company,"
"Song," and "City."

(Collage of screenshots by
                                    R. Glushko.)




The "Linked Data"
                    movement is an extension of the Semantic
                        Web idea to reframe the basic principles of the web's
                    architecture in more semantic terms. Instead of the limited role of
                links as simple untyped relationships between HTML documents, links
                between resources described by RDF can serve as the bridges between
                islands of semantic data, creating a Linked Data network or cloud.

5.8.2. Bibliographic Organizing Systems
Much of our thinking about relationships in
                    organizing systems for information comes from the domain of bibliographic
                    cataloging of library resources and the related areas of classification systems
                    and descriptive thesauri. Bibliographic relationships provide an important means
                    to build structure into library catalogs.
Bibliographic relationships are common among
                    library resources. Smiraglia and Leazer found that approximately 30% of
                the works in the Online Computer Library
                            Center (OCLC)
WorldCat union catalog have associated derivative works.
                Relationships among items within these bibliographic families differ, but the
                average family size for those works with derivative works was found to be 3.54
                items. Moreover, "canonical" works that have strong cultural meaning
                and influence, such as "the plays of William Shakespeare" and The Bible, have very large and
                complex bibliographic families.
5.8.2.1. Tillett's Taxonomy
Barbara Tillett, in a study of 19th and
                            20th century catalog rules, found that many
                        different catalog rules have existed over time to describe bibliographic
                        relationships. She developed a taxonomy of bibliographic
                    relationships that includes equivalence, derivative, descriptive, whole-part,
                    accompanying, sequential or chronological, and shared characteristic. These
                    relationship types span the relationship perspectives defined in this chapter;
                    equivalence, derivative, and description are semantic types; whole-part and
                    accompanying are part semantic and part structural types; sequential or
                    chronological are part lexical and part structural types; and shared
                    characteristics are part semantic and part lexical types.

5.8.2.2. Resource Description and Access (RDA)
Many cataloging researchers have recognized
                        that online catalogs do not do a very good job of encoding bibliographic
                        relationships among items, both due to catalog display design and to the
                        limitations of how information is organized within catalog
                        records.
 Author name authority databases, for example, provide information
                    for variant author names, which can be very important in finding all of the
                    works by a single author, but this information is not held within a catalog
                    record. Similarly, MARC records can be formatted and displayed
                    in web library catalogs, but the data within the records are not available for
                    re-use, re-purposing, or re-arranging by researchers, patrons, or
                    librarians.
The Resource Description and Access (RDA) next-generation cataloging rules are attempting to bring
                    together disconnected resource descriptions to provide more complete and
                    interconnected data about works, authors, publications, publishers, and
                    subjects.
RDA utilizes
                        RDF to declare and store relationships among bibliographic
                        materials.

5.8.2.3. RDA and the Semantic Web
The move in RDA to
                        encode bibliographic data in RDF stems from the desire to
                        make library catalog data more web-accessible. As web-based data
                    mash-ups, application programming interfaces (APIs), and web
                    searching are becoming ubiquitous and expected, library data are becoming
                    increasingly isolated. The developers of RDA see
                        RDF as the means for making library data more widely
                    available online.
In addition to simply making library data more web accessible,
                        RDA seeks to leverage the distributed nature of the
                    Semantic Web. Once rules for describing resources, and
                        the relationships between them, are declared in RDF syntax
                        and made publicly available, the rules themselves can be mixed and mashed
                        up. Creators of information systems that use RDF
                    can choose elements from any RDF schema. For example, we can
                    use the Dublin Core metadata schema (which has been aligned with the
                    RDF model) and the Friend of a Friend (FOAF) schema (a schema to describe people and the
                    relationships between them) to create a set of metadata elements about a journal
                    article that goes beyond the standard bibliographic information.
                        RDA's process of moving to RDF is well
                        underway.


5.8.3. Integration and Interoperability
Integration
is the controlled sharing of information between two (or more)
                    business systems, applications, or services within or between firms. Integration means that one party can
                    extract or obtain information from another one, it does not imply that the
                    recipient can make use of the information.
Interoperability
goes beyond integration to mean that systems, applications, or
                    services that exchange information can make sense of what they receive.
                        Interoperability can
                    involve identifying corresponding components and relationships in each system,
                    transforming them syntactically to the same format, structurally to the same
                    granularity, and semantically to the same meaning.
For example, an Internet shopping site might
                present customers with a product catalog whose items come from a variety of
                manufacturers who describe the same products in different ways. Likewise, the
                end-to-end process from customer ordering to delivery requires that customer,
                product and payment information pass through the information systems of different
                firms. Creating the necessary information mappings and transformations is tedious or
                even impossible if the components and relationships among them are not formally
                specified for each system.
In contrast, when these models exist as data or
                document schemas or as classes in programming languages, identifying and exploiting
                the relationships between the information in different systems to achieve interoperability or to merge
                different classification systems can often be completely automated. Because of the
                substantial economic benefits to governments, businesses, and their customers of
                more efficient information integration and exchange, efforts to standardize these information
                models are important in numerous industries. Chapter 9, "Interactions with Resources" will dive
                deeper into interoperability
                issues, especially those that arise in business contexts.













Self-Review

Question









Answer




5.9. Key Points in Chapter Five
Switch to Quiz Mode
What is a relationship?

A relationship is "an association among several
                            things, with that association having a particular
                        significance."
See §5.1, "Introduction"

Why is it essential to include the
                        type of association in a specification of a relationship?

Just identifying the resources involved is not enough
                        because several different relationships can exist among the same
                        resources.
See §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"

What is the most typical grammatical
                        model for expressing a relationship?

Most relationships between resources
                        can be expressed using a subject-predicate-object model.
See §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective" and
                            §5.7.1, "Choice of Implementation"

What knowledge does a computer need
                        to be able to understand relational expressions?

For a computer to understand relational expressions, it
                        needs a computer-processable representation of the relationships among words
                        and meanings that makes every important semantic assumption and property
                        precise and explicit.
See §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"

What are three broad categories of
                        semantic relationships?

Three broad categories of semantic relationships are
                        inclusion, attribution, and possession.
See §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships"

What is a taxonomy?

A set of interconnected class
                        inclusion relationships creates a hierarchy called a taxonomy.
See §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"

What kind of semantic relationship is
                        expressed by a classification?

Classification is a class inclusion relationship between
                        an instance and a class.
See §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"

What kinds of inferences are possible
                        when relationships are transitive?

Ordering and inclusion relationships are inherently
                        transitive, enabling inferences about class membership and
                        properties.
See §5.3.2.2, "Transitivity"

What is an ontology?

Class inclusion relationships form a framework to which
                        other kinds of relationships attach, creating a network of relationships
                        called an ontology.
See §5.3.3, "Ontologies"

What is hyponymy?

When words encode the semantic
                        distinctions expressed by class inclusion, the more specific class is called
                        the hyponym; the more general class is the hypernym.
See §5.4.1.1, "Hyponymy and Hyperonymy"

What is a thesaurus?

A thesaurus uses lexical relationships to suggest which
                        terms to use.
See §5.4.2, "Thesauri"

What is a practical application of
                        morphological analysis?

Morphological analysis of how words in a language are
                        created from smaller units is heavily used in text processing.
See §5.4.3, "Relationships among Word Forms"

What are the two types of structural
                        relationships?

Many types of resources have internal structure in
                        additional to their structural relationships with other resources.
See §5.5.2, "Structural Relationships within a Resource" and
                            §5.5.2, "Structural Relationships within a Resource"

What is XPath?

The XPath language defines the structures and patterns in
                            XML documents used by XML forms,
                        queries, and transformations.
See §5.5.2, "Structural Relationships within a Resource"

When are hypertext links merely
                        structural?

Many hypertext links are purely structural because there
                        is no explicit representation of the reason for the relationship.
See the sidebar, Perspectives on Hypertext Links

What is link analysis?

Using the pattern of links between documents to understand
                        the structure of knowledge and the structure of the intellectual community
                        that creates it is an idea that is nearly a century old.
See §5.5.3, "Structural Relationships between Resources"

What are the essential semantic web
                        technologies?

The essential technologies for making the web more
                        semantic and relationships among web resources more explicit are
                            XML, RDF, and
                        OWL.
See §5.8.1, "The Semantic Web and Linked Data"

What is the origin of the study of
                        relationships in organizing systems?

Much of our thinking about relationships in organizing
                        systems for information comes from the domain of bibliographic cataloging of
                        library resources and the related areas of classification systems and
                        descriptive thesauri.
See §5.8.2, "Bibliographic Organizing Systems"

What is RDA?

The Resource Description and Access (RDA) next-generation cataloging rules are attempting to bring
                        together disconnected resource descriptions.
See §5.8.2.2, "Resource Description and Access (RDA)"

What is integration?

Integration is the controlled sharing of information
                        between two (or more) business systems, applications, or services within or
                        between firms.
See §5.8.3, "Integration and Interoperability"

How is interoperability different
                        from integration?

Interoperability goes beyond integration to mean that
                        systems, applications, or services that exchange information can make sense
                        of what they receive.
See §5.8.3, "Integration and Interoperability"

A relationship is "an association among several
                            things, with that association having a particular
                        significance."
See §5.1, "Introduction"

Just identifying the resources involved is not enough
                        because several different relationships can exist among the same
                        resources.
See §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"

Most relationships between resources
                        can be expressed using a subject-predicate-object model.
See §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective" and
                            §5.7.1, "Choice of Implementation"

For a computer to understand relational expressions, it
                        needs a computer-processable representation of the relationships among words
                        and meanings that makes every important semantic assumption and property
                        precise and explicit.
See §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"

Three broad categories of semantic relationships are
                        inclusion, attribution, and possession.
See §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships"

A set of interconnected class
                        inclusion relationships creates a hierarchy called a taxonomy.
See §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"

Classification is a class inclusion relationship between
                        an instance and a class.
See §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"

Ordering and inclusion relationships are inherently
                        transitive, enabling inferences about class membership and
                        properties.
See §5.3.2.2, "Transitivity"

Class inclusion relationships form a framework to which
                        other kinds of relationships attach, creating a network of relationships
                        called an ontology.
See §5.3.3, "Ontologies"

When words encode the semantic
                        distinctions expressed by class inclusion, the more specific class is called
                        the hyponym; the more general class is the hypernym.
See §5.4.1.1, "Hyponymy and Hyperonymy"

A thesaurus uses lexical relationships to suggest which
                        terms to use.
See §5.4.2, "Thesauri"

Morphological analysis of how words in a language are
                        created from smaller units is heavily used in text processing.
See §5.4.3, "Relationships among Word Forms"

Many types of resources have internal structure in
                        additional to their structural relationships with other resources.
See §5.5.2, "Structural Relationships within a Resource" and
                            §5.5.2, "Structural Relationships within a Resource"

The XPath language defines the structures and patterns in
                            XML documents used by XML forms,
                        queries, and transformations.
See §5.5.2, "Structural Relationships within a Resource"

Many hypertext links are purely structural because there
                        is no explicit representation of the reason for the relationship.
See the sidebar, Perspectives on Hypertext Links

Using the pattern of links between documents to understand
                        the structure of knowledge and the structure of the intellectual community
                        that creates it is an idea that is nearly a century old.
See §5.5.3, "Structural Relationships between Resources"

The essential technologies for making the web more
                        semantic and relationships among web resources more explicit are
                            XML, RDF, and
                        OWL.
See §5.8.1, "The Semantic Web and Linked Data"

Much of our thinking about relationships in organizing
                        systems for information comes from the domain of bibliographic cataloging of
                        library resources and the related areas of classification systems and
                        descriptive thesauri.
See §5.8.2, "Bibliographic Organizing Systems"

The Resource Description and Access (RDA) next-generation cataloging rules are attempting to bring
                        together disconnected resource descriptions.
See §5.8.2.2, "Resource Description and Access (RDA)"

Integration is the controlled sharing of information
                        between two (or more) business systems, applications, or services within or
                        between firms.
See §5.8.3, "Integration and Interoperability"

Interoperability goes beyond integration to mean that
                        systems, applications, or services that exchange information can make sense
                        of what they receive.
See §5.8.3, "Integration and Interoperability"












Chapter 6. Categorization: Describing Resource Classes and TypesRobert J. GlushkoRachelle AnnechinoJess HemerlyLonghao Wang
6.1. Introduction
For nearly two decades, a TV game show called
                Pyramid aired in North America. The show featured two
            competing teams, each team consisting of two contestants: an ordinary civilian
            contestant and a celebrity. In the show's first round, both teams' members viewed a
            pyramid-shaped sign that displayed six category titles, some straightforward like
                "Where You Live" and others less conventional like "Things You
                Need to Feed." Each team then had an opportunity to compete for points in
            30-second turns. The goal was for one team member to gain points by identifying a word
            or phrase related to the category from clues provided by the other team member. For
            example, a target phrase for the "Where You Live" category might be
                "zip code," and the clue might be "Mine is 94705."
"Things you Need to Feed" might include both "screaming baby"
            and "parking meter."
The team that won the first round advanced to the "Winner's
                Circle," where the game was turned around. This time, only the clue giver was
            shown the category name and had to suggest concepts or instances belonging to that
            category so that the teammate could guess the category name. Clues like
                "alto,"
"soprano," and "tenor" would be given to prompt the teammate
            to guess "Singing Voices" or "Types of Singers."
As the game progressed, the categories became more challenging. It was
            interesting and entertaining to hear the clue receiver's initial guess and how
            subsequent guesses changed with more clues. The person giving clues would often become
            frustrated, because to them their clues seemed obvious and discriminating but would seem
            not to help the clue receivers in identifying the category. Viewers enjoyed sharing in
            these moments of vocabulary and category confusion.
The Pyramid TV game show developers created a
            textbook example for teaching about categories—groups or classes
            of things, people, processes, events or anything else that we treat as
                equivalent—and categorization—the
            process of assigning instances to categories. The game is a useful analog for us to
            illustrate many of the issues we discuss in this chapter. The Pyramid game was
            challenging, and sometimes comical, because people bring their own experiences and
            biases to understanding what a category means, and because not every instance of a
            category is equally typical or suggestive. How we organize reflects our thinking
            processes, which can inadvertently reveal personal characteristics that can be amusing
            in a social context. 
            Hence, the popularity of the Pyramid franchise, which
            began on CBS in 1973 and has been produced in 20 countries.
Many texts in library science introduce categorization via cataloging rules,
            a set of highly prescriptive methods for assigning resources to categories that some
            describe and others satirize as "mark 'em and park 'em." Similarly, many
            texts in computer science discuss the process of defining the categories needed to
            create, process, and store information in terms of programming language constructs:
                "here's how to define an abstract type, and here's the data type
                system." We take a very different approach in this chapter. In the following
            sections, we discuss how and why we create categories, reviewing some important work in
            philosophy, linguistics, and cognitive psychology so that we can better understand how
            categories are created and used in organizing systems. We discuss how the way we
            organize differs when we act as individuals or as members of social, cultural, or
            institutional groups; later we share principles for creating categories, design choices
            and implementation experience. As usual, we close the chapter with a summary of the key
            points.












6.2. The What and Why of Categories
Categories are equivalence
                    classes, sets or groups of things or abstract entities that we treat
                the same. This does not mean that every instance of a category is
            identical, only that from some perspective, or for some purpose, we are treating them as
            equivalent based on what they have in common. When we consider something as a member of
            a category, we are making choices about which of its properties or roles we are focusing
            on and which ones we are ignoring. We do this automatically and unconsciously most of
            the time, but we can also do it in an explicit and self-aware way.
When we encounter objects
                or situations, recognizing them as members of a category helps us know how to
                interact with them. For example, when we enter an unfamiliar building we
            might need to open or pass through an entryway that we recognize as a door. We might
            never have seen that particular door before, but it has properties and affordances that
            we know that all doors have; it has a doorknob or a handle; it allows access to a larger
            space; it opens and closes. By mentally assigning this particular door to the
                "doors" category we distinguish it from "windows," a
            category that also contains objects that sometimes have handles and that open and close,
            but which we do not normally pass through to enter another space. Categorization
            judgments are therefore not just about what is included in a class, but also about what
            is excluded from a class. Nevertheless, the category boundaries are not sharp; a
                "Dutch door" is divided horizontally in half so that the bottom can be
            closed like a door while the top can stay open like a window.
Categories are cognitive and linguistic models for applying prior knowledge;
                creating and using categories are essential human activities. Categories enable us
                to relate things to each other in terms of similarity and dissimilarity and are
                involved whenever we perceive, communicate, analyze, predict, or classify. Without
                categories, we would perceive the world as an unorganized blur of things with no
                understandable or memorable relation to each other. Every wall-entry we
            encounter would be new to us, and we would have to discover its properties and supported
            interactions as though we had never before encountered a door. Of course, we still often
            need to identify something as a particular instance, but categories enable us to
            understand how it is equivalent to other instances. We can interchangeably relate to
            something as specific as "the wooden door to the main conference room" or
            more generally as "any door."
All human languages and cultures divide up
                the world into categories.
How and why this takes place has long been debated by
                philosophers, psychologists and anthropologists. One explanation for this
            differentiation is that people recognize structure in the world, and then create
            categories of things that "go together" or are somehow similar. An
            alternative view says that human minds make sense of the world by imposing structure on
            it, and that what goes together or seems similar is the outcome rather than a cause of
            categorization. Bulmer framed the contrast in a memorable way by asking which came
            first, the chicken (the objective facts of nature) or the egghead (the role of the human
                intellect).
A secondary and more specialized debate going on for the last few
            decades among linguists, cognitive scientists, and computer scientists concerns the
            extent to which the cognitive mechanisms involved in category formation are specialized
            for that purpose rather than more general learning processes.
Even before they can talk, children behave in ways that suggest they
            have formed categories based on shape, color, and other properties they can directly
            perceive in physical objects.
            People almost effortlessly learn tens of thousands of
                categories embodied in the culture and language in which they grow up. People also
                rely on their own experiences, preferences, and goals to adapt these cultural categories or create
                entirely individual ones that they use to organize resources that they personally
                arrange. Later on, through situational training and formal education, people learn
                to apply systematic and logical thinking processes so that they can create and
                understand categories in engineering, logistics, transport, science, law, business,
                and other institutional contexts.
These three contexts of cultural,
                individual, and institutional
                categorization share some core ideas but they emphasize different
            processes and purposes for creating categories, so they are a useful
                distinction.
            Cultural categorization can be understood as a natural human
                cognitive ability that serves as a foundation for both informal and formal
                organizing systems. Individual categorization tends to grow spontaneously out of our
                personal activities. Institutional categorization responds to the need for formal
                coordination and cooperation within and between companies, governments, and other
                goal-oriented enterprises.
Stop and Think: Color
Think of the very broad category of "color." 
                Based on what you've already read in this chapter, 
                what are a few examples of a "cultural" category of color? 
                How about an "individual" one? And an "institutional" one?
            

6.2.1. Cultural Categories
Cultural categories
                are the archetypical form of categories upon which individual and
                    institutional categories are usually based. Cultural categories
                tend to describe our everyday experiences of the world and our accumulated
                cultural knowledge. Such categories describe objects, events, settings,
                internal experiences, physical orientation, relationships between entities, and many
                other aspects of human experience. Cultural categories are acquired primarily, with
                little explicit instruction, through normal exposure of children with their
                caregivers; they are associated with language acquisition and language use within
                particular cultural contexts.
Languages
                    differ a great deal in the words they contain and also in more fundamental ways
                    that they require speakers or writers to attend to details about the world or
                    aspects of experience that another language allows them to ignore. This idea is
                    often described as linguistic
                        relativity.
(See the sidebar.)
Linguistic Relativity

Linguistic diversity led
                            Benjamin Whorf, in the mid
                        20th century, to propose an overly strong
                    statement of the relationships among language, culture, and thought. Whorf argued
                        that the particularities of one's native language determine how we think and
                        what we can think about. Among his extreme ideas was the suggestion
                    that, because some Native American languages lacked words or grammatical forms
                    that refer to what we call "time" in English, they could not
                    understand the concept. More careful language study showed both parts of the
                    claim to be completely false.
Nevertheless, even though academic linguists
                    have discredited strong versions of Whorf's ideas, less deterministic versions
                    of linguistic relativity have become
                    influential and help us understand cultural categorization. The more moderate
                    position was crisply characterized by Roman Jakobson, who said that
                        "languages differ essentially in what they must
                        convey and not in what they may convey." In
                    English one can say "I spent yesterday with a neighbor." In
                    languages with grammatical gender, one must choose a word that identifies the
                    neighbor as male or female.

For example, speakers of the Australian aboriginal language, Guugu
                Yimithirr, do not use concepts of left and right, but rather use compass-point
                directions. Where in English we might say to a person facing north, "Take a
                    step to your left," they would use their term for west. If the person
                faced south, we would change our instruction to "right," but they would
                still use their term for west. Imagine how difficult it would be for a speaker of
                Guugu Yimithirr and a speaker of English to collaborate in organizing a storage room
                or a closet.
It is not controversial to notice that
                    different cultures and language communities have different experiences and
                    activities that give them contrasting knowledge about particular
                    domains. No one would doubt that university undergraduates in Chicago
                would think differently about animals than inhabitants of Guatemalan rain forests,
                or even that different types of "tree experts" (taxonomists, landscape
                workers, and tree maintenance personnel) would categorize trees
                    differently.
Invoking the Whorfian Hypothesis in a Clothing Ad

An advertisement for an Icelandic clothing brand called
                                        "66 North" invokes the Whorfian hypothesis to
                                    suggest that even though Icelanders can recognize more than a
                                    hundred kinds of snow in Icelandic, there is only one kind of
                                    winter clothing that matters to them;  the kind that carries
                                    this brand name.

(Photo by R. Glushko. 
                                Taken in the Reykjavik airport.)



6.2.2. Individual Categories
Individual categories are created in an
                    organizing system to satisfy the ad
                        hoc requirements that arise from a person's unique
                    experiences, preferences, and resource collections. Unlike cultural categories,
                    which usually develop slowly and last a long time, individual categories are
                    created by intentional activity, in response to a specific situation, or to
                    solve an emerging organizational challenge. As a consequence, the
                categories in individual organizing systems generally have short lifetimes and
                rarely outlive the person who created them.
Individual categories draw from cultural
                    categories but differ in two important ways. First, individual categories
                    sometimes have an imaginative or metaphorical basis that is meaningful to the
                    person who created them but which might distort or misinterpret cultural
                    categories. Second, individual categories are often specialized or synthesized
                    versions of cultural categories that capture particular experiences or personal
                    history. For example, a person who has lived in China and Mexico, or
                lived with people from those places, might have highly individualized categories for
                foods they like and dislike that incorporate characteristics of both Chinese and
                Mexican cuisine.
Individual categories in organizing
                    systems also reflect the idiosyncratic set of household goods, music, books,
                    website bookmarks, or other resources that a person might have collected over
                    time.
The organizing systems for financial records, personal
                    papers, or email messages often use highly specialized categories that are
                    shaped by specific tasks to be performed, relationships with other people,
                    events of personal history, and other highly individualized
                    considerations.
Traditionally, individual
                        categorization systems were usually not visible to,
                or shared with, others, whereas, this has become an increasingly common situation
                for people using web-based organizing system for pictures, music, or other personal
                resources. On websites like the popular Flickr site for
                photos, people typically use existing cultural categories to tag their photos as
                well as individual ones that they invent. In particular, the typical syntactic
                constraint that tags are delimited by white space encourages the creation of new
                categories by combining existing category names using concatenation and camel case
                conventions; photos that could be categorized as "Berkeley" and
                    "Student" are thus tagged as "BerkeleyStudent."
Similar generative processes for creating individual category names are
                used with Twitter "hashtags" where tweets about events are often
                categorized with an ad hoc tag that
                combines an event name and a year identifier like "#NBAFinals14."
                Web-based documents and product pages in web catalogs are commonly categorized with
                    "ReadThis" and "BuyThis" tags that are meaningful for
                the individuals who created those categories for themselves, but which are not very
                informative for anyone else.

6.2.3. Institutional Categories


In contrast to cultural categories
                    that are created and used implicitly, and to individual categories that are used
                    by people acting alone, institutional
                            categories are created and used explicitly and
                    rationally, and most often by many people or computational agents in
                    coordination with each other. Institutional categories are most often created in
                    abstract and information-intensive domains where unambiguous and precise
                    categories are needed to regulate and systematize activity, to enable
                    information sharing and reuse, and to reduce transaction costs.
                Furthermore, instead of describing the world as it is, institutional categories are
                usually defined to change or control the world by imposing semantic models that are
                more formal and arbitrary than those in cultural categories. Laws, regulations, and
                standards often specify institutional categories, along with decision rules for
                assigning resources to new categories, and behavior rules that prescribe how people
                must interact with them. The rigorous definition of institutional categories enables
                    classification: the systematic assignment of resources to
                categories in an organizing system.
Creating institutional categories by more systematic
                processes than cultural or individual categories does not prevent them from being
                biased Indeed, the goal of institutional categories is often to impose or
                incentivize biases in interpretation or behavior. There is no better example of this
                than the practice of gerrymandering, designing the boundaries of election districts
                to give one political party or ethnic group an advantage. The word was invented in
                1812 in a newspaper article critical of Massachusetts governor
                        Elbridge Gerry, who oversaw the creation of biased
                electoral districts. One such district was so contorted in shape, it was said to
                look like a salamander, and thus was called a Gerrymander. The practice remains
                widespread, but nowadays sophisticated computer programs can select voters on any
                number of characteristics and create boundaries that either "pack" them
                into a single district to concentrate their voting power or "crack"
                them into multiple districts to dilute it. 
Bias in Institutional Categorization:  Illinois 17th Congressional District


The 17th Congressional
                                    District in Illinois was dubbed "the rabbit on a
                                        skateboard" from 2003 through 2013
                                because of its highly contorted shape. 
                                The bizarre boundary was negotiated to create favorable voting constituencies
                                for two incumbent legislators from opposing parties.
                                

(Picture from nationatlas.gov. In the public domain.)



Institutional categorization stands apart from
                individual categorization primarily because it invariably requires significant
                efforts to reconcile mismatches between existing individual categories, where those
                categories embody useful working or contextual knowledge that is lost in the move to a formal
                institutional system.
Institutional categorization efforts must also
                overcome the vagueness and inconsistency of cultural categories because the former
                must often conform to stricter logical standards to support inference and meet legal
                requirements. Furthermore, institutional categorization is usually a process that
                must be accounted for in a budget and staffing plans. While some kinds of
                institutional categories can be devised or discovered by computational processes,
                most of them are created through the collaboration of many individuals, typically
                from various parts of an organization or from different firms.
 The different business or technical perspectives of the
                participants are often the essential ingredients in developing robust categories
                that can meet carefully identified requirements. And as requirements change over
                time, institutional categories must often change as well, implying version control,
                compliance testing, and other formal maintenance and governance processes.
Some institutional categories that initially had narrow or focused
                applicability have found their way into more popular use and are now considered
                cultural categories. A good example is the periodic table in chemistry, which
                Mendeleev developed in 1869 as a new system of categories for the chemical elements.
                The periodic table proved essential to scientists in understanding their properties
                and in predicting undiscovered ones. Today the periodic table is taught in
                elementary schools, and many things other than elements are commonly arranged using
                a graphical structure that resembles the periodic table of elements in chemistry,
                including sci-fi films and movies, desserts, and superheroes. Unfortuntely, in this transition from science to popular culture, many of these so-called periodic tables are just ad hoc collections that ignore the essential idea that the rows and columns capture explanatory principles about resource properties that vary in a periodic manner.  A notable exception is Andrew Plotkin's Periodic Table of Dessert.

6.2.4. A "Categorization Continuum"
As we have seen, the concepts of cultural, individual, and
                institutional categorization usefully distinguish the primary processes and purposes
                for creating categories. However, these three kinds of categories can fuse, clash,
                and recombine with each other. Rather than viewing them as having precise
                boundaries, we might view them as regions on a continuum of categorization
                activities and methods.
Consider a few different perspectives on
                categorizing animals as an example. 
                Scientific institutions categorize
                    animals according to explicit, principled classification systems, such as the
                    Linnaean taxonomy that assigns animals to a phylum, class, order, family, genus
                    and species.
Cultural categorization practices cannot be
                    adequately described in terms of a master taxonomy, and are more fluid,
                    converging with principled taxonomies sometimes, and diverging at other
                    times. While human beings are classified within the animal kingdom in
                biological classification systems, people are usually not considered animals in most
                cultural contexts. Sometimes a scientific designation for human beings,
                    homo sapiens is even applied to
                human beings in cultural contexts, since the genus-species taxonomic designation has
                influenced cultural conceptions of people and (other) animals over the years.
Animals are also often culturally categorized as
                pets or non-pets. The category "pets" commonly
                includes dogs, cats, and fish. A pet cat might be categorized at multiple levels
                that incorporate individual, cultural, and institutional perspectives on
                    categorization—as an "animal"
                (cultural/institutional), as a "mammal" (institutional), as a
                    "domestic short-hair" (institutional) as a "cat"
                (cultural), and as a "troublemaker" or a "favorite"
                (individual), among other possibilities, in addition to being identified
                individually by one or more pet names. Furthermore, not everyone experiences pets as
                just dogs, cats and fish. Some people have relatively unusual pets, like pigs. For
                individuals who have pet pigs or who know people with pet pigs, "pigs"
                may be included in the "pets" category. If enough people have pet pigs,
                eventually "pigs" could be included in mainstream culture's pet
                category.
Categorization skewed toward cultural perspectives
                incorporate relatively traditional categories, such as those learned implicitly from
                social interactions, like mainstream understandings of what kinds of animals are
                    "pets," while categorization skewed toward institutional
                perspectives emphasizes explicit, formal categories, like the categories employed in
                biological classification systems.
CAFE Standards: Blurring the Lines Between Categorization Perspectives
The 
                    Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards sort vehicles into
                        "passenger car" and "light truck" categories and
                    impose higher minimum fuel efficiency requirements for cars because trucks have
                    different typical uses.
When CAFE standards were first introduced in
                    1975, the vehicles classified as light trucks were generally used for
                        "light duty" farming and manufacturing purposes. "Light
                        trucks" might be thought of as a "sort of" in-between
                        category—a light truck is not really a car, but
                    sufficiently unlike a prototypical truck to qualify the vehicle's categorization
                    as "light." Formalizing this sense of in-between-ness by specifying
                    features that define a "car" and a "light truck" is
                    the only way to implement a consistent, transparent fuel efficiency policy that
                    makes use of informal, graded distinctions between vehicles.
A manufacturer whose average fuel economy for all the vehicles it
                    sells in a year falls below the CAFE standards has to pay
                    penalties. This encourages them to produce "sport utility vehicles"
                        (SUVs) that adhere to the CAFE definitions
                    of light trucks but which most people use as passenger cars. Similarly, the
                        PT Cruiser, a retro-styled hatchback produced by
                        Chrysler from 2000-2010, strikes many people as a car. It
                    looks like a car; we associate it with the transport of passengers rather than
                    with farming; and in fact it is formally classified as a car under emissions
                    standards. But like SUVs, in the CAFE
                    classification system, the PT Cruiser is a light
                    truck.
CAFE standards have evolved over time,
                    becoming a theater for political clashes between holistic cultural categories
                    and formal institutional categories, which plays out in competing pressures from
                    industry, government, and political organizations. Furthermore,
                        CAFE standards and manufacturers' response to them are
                    influencing cultural categories, such that our cultural understanding of what a
                    car looks like is changing over time as manufacturers design vehicles like the
                        PT Cruiser with car functionality in unconventional
                    shapes to take advantage of the CAFE light truck
                        specifications.













6.3. Principles for Creating Categories
§6.2, "The What and Why of Categories" explained what categories are and
            the contrasting cultural, individual, and institutional contexts and purposes for
            which categories are created. In doing so, a number of different principles for
            creating categories were mentioned, mostly in passing.
We now take a systematic look at principles for creating categories,
            including: enumeration, single properties, multiple properties and hierarchy, family
            resemblance, similarity, and theory- and goal-based categorization.
6.3.1. Enumeration
The simplest principle
                        for creating a category is enumeration; any
                        resource in a finite or countable set can be deemed a category member by
                        that fact alone. This principle is also known as extensional
                        definition, and the members of the set are called the
                        extension. Many institutional categories
                are defined by enumeration as a set of possible or legal values, like the 50 United States or the ISO currency codes 
                (ISO 4217).
Enumerative categories enable
                    membership to be unambiguously determined because a value like state name or
                    currency code is either a member of the category or it is not. But there comes a
                    size when enumerative definition is impractical or inefficient, and the category
                    either must be sub-divided or be given a definition based on principles other
                    than enumeration.
Too Many Planets to Enumerate: Keeping up with Kepler
Kepler is a space observatory 
                    launched by NASA in 2009 to search for Earth-like planets 
                    orbiting other stars in our own Milky Way galaxy. 
                    Kepler has already discovered and verified a few thousand new planets,
                    and these results have led to estimates that 
                    there may be at least as many planets as there are stars, 
                    a few hundred billion in the Milky Way alone. Count fast.
                  
                

 For example, for millennia we earthlings have had a cultural category
                of "planet" as a "wandering" celestial object, and because
                we only knew of planets in our own solar system, the planet category was defined by
                enumeration: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. When the outer
                planets of Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto were identified as planets in the
                    18th-20th centuries, they
                were added to this list of planets without any changes in the cultural category. But
                in the last couple of decades many heretofore unknown planets outside our solar
                system have been detected, making the set of planets unbounded, and definition by
                enumeration no longer works.
The International Astronomical
                            Union (IAU) thought it solved this category crisis by proposing
                a definition of planet as "a celestial body that is (a) in orbit around a
                    star, (b) has sufficient mass for its self-gravity to overcome rigid body forces
                    so that it assumes a hydrostatic equilibrium (nearly round) shape, and (c) has
                    cleared the neighborhood around its orbit."
Unfortunately, Pluto does not satisfy the third requirement, so it no
                longer is a member of the planet category, and instead is now called an
                    "inferior planet."

                    Changing the definition of a significant cultural category generated a
                        great deal of controversy and angst among ordinary non-scientific people. A
                        typical headline was "Pluto's demotion has schools spinning,"
                        describing the outcry from elementary school students and teachers about the
                        injustice done to Pluto and the disruption on the curriculum.
                    

6.3.2. Single Properties
It is intuitive and useful to
                    think in terms of properties when we identify instances and when we are
                    describing instances (as we saw in §3.3, "Resource Identity" and in Chapter 4, "Resource Description and Metadata"). Therefore, it should also be intuitive and
                useful to consider properties when we analyze more than one instance to compare and
                contrast them so we can determine which sets of instances can be treated as a
                category or equivalence
                    class. Categories
                    whose members are determined by one or more properties or rules follow the
                    principle of intensional
                        definition, and the defining properties are called
                    the intension.

 You might be thinking here that enumeration or
                    extensional definition of a category is also a property test; is not
                        "being a state" a property of California? But statehood is not
                    a property precisely because "state" is defined by extension, which
                    means the only way to test California for statehood is to see if it is in the
                    list of states.
Any single property of a resource can be used to create categories,
                    and the easiest ones to use are often the intrinsic static properties.
                As we discussed in Chapter 4, "Resource Description and Metadata", intrinsic static properties are
                those inherent in a resource that never change. 
                
                The material of composition of natural or manufactured objects is an
                intrinsic and static property that can be used to arrange physical resources. For
                example, an organizing system for a personal collection of music that is based on
                the intrinsic static property of physical format might use categories for CDs, DVDs,
                vinyl albums, 8-track cartridges, reel-to-reel tape and tape cassettes.
            
Using a single property is most natural to do when the properties
                can take on only a small set of discrete values like music formats, and especially
                when the property is closely related to how the resources are used, as they are with
                the music collection where each format requires different equipment to listen to the
                music. Each value then becomes a subcategory of the music category.
The author, date, and location of creation of
                an intellectual resource cannot be directly perceived but they are also intrinsic
                static properties. The subject matter or purpose of a resource, its "what it is about" or "what it was originally for," are also intrinsic static properties that
                are not directly perceivable, especially for information resources.
The name or identifier of a resource
                    is often arbitrary but once assigned normally does not change, making it an
                    extrinsic static property. Any collection of resources with alphabetic
                or numeric identifiers as an associated property can use sorting order as an
                organizing principle to arrange spices, books, personnel records, etc., in a
                completely reliable way. Some might argue whether this organizing principle creates
                a category system, or whether it simply exploits the ordering inherent in the
                identifier notation. For example, with alphabetic identifiers, we can think of
                alphabetic ordering as creating a recursive category system with 26 (A-Z) top-level
                categories, each containing the same number of second-level categories, and so on
                until every instance is assigned to its proper place.
Some resource properties are
                    both extrinsic and dynamic because they are based on usage or behaviors that can
                    be highly context-dependent. The current owner or location of a
                resource, its frequency of access, the joint frequency of access with other
                resources, or its current rating or preference with respect to alternative resources
                are typical extrinsic and dynamic properties that can be the basis for arranging
                resources and defining categories.
These properties can have a large number of values
                or are continuous measures, but as long as there are explicit rules for using
                property values to determine category assignment the resulting categories are still
                easy to understand and use. For example, we naturally categorize people we know on
                the basis of their current profession, the city where they live, their hobbies, or
                their age. Properties with a numerical dimension like "frequency of
                    use" are often transformed into a small set of categories like
                    "frequently used,"
"occasionally used," and "rarely used" based on the
                numerical property values.
While there are an infinite number of logically
                expressible properties for any resource, most of them would not lead to informative
                and useful categories. Therefore, it is important to choose properties that are
                psychologically or pragmatically relevant for the resource domain being categorized.
                Whether something weighs more or less than 5000 pounds is a poor property to apply
                to things in general, because it puts cats and chairs in one category, and buses and
                elephants in another.
To summarize: The most useful
                    single properties to use for creating categories for an organizing system are
                    those that are formally assigned, objectively measurable and orderable, or tied
                    to well-established cultural categories, because the resulting categories will
                    be easier to understand and describe.
If only a
                    single property is used to distinguish among some set of resources and to create
                    the categories in an organizing system, the choice of property is critical
                    because different properties often lead to different categories. Using
                the age property, Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg are unlikely to end up in the same category of people. Using the
                wealth property, they most certainly would. Furthermore, if only one property is
                used to create a system of categories, any category with a large numbers of items in
                it will lack coherence because differences on other properties will be too apparent,
                and some category members will not fit as well as the others.

6.3.3. Multiple Properties
Organizing systems often use multiple
                    properties to define categories. There are three different ways in
                which to do this that differ in the scope of the properties and how essential they
                are in defining the categories.
6.3.3.1. Multi-Level or Hierarchical Categories
If you have many shirts in your closet (and you are a bit
                    compulsive or a "neat freak"), instead of just separating your
                    shirts from your pants using a single property (the part of body on which the
                    clothes are worn) you might arrange the shirts by style, and then by sleeve
                    length, and finally by color. When all of the
                        resources in an organizing system are arranged using the same sequence of
                        resource properties, this creates a logical
                            hierarchy, a multi-level category
                        system.
If we treat all the shirts as the collection being organized,
                    in the shirt organizing system the broad category of shirts is first divided by
                    style into categories like "dress shirts,"
"work shirts,"
"party shirts," and "athletic or sweatshirts." Each of
                    these style categories is further divided until the categories are very narrow
                    ones, like the "white long-sleeve dress shirts" category. A
                    particular shirt ends up in this last category only after passing a series of
                    property tests along the way: it is a dress shirt, it has long sleeves, and it
                    is white. Each test creates more precise categories in the intersections of the
                    categories whose members passed the prior property tests.
Put another way, each
                        subdivision of a category takes place when we identify or choose a property
                        that differentiates the members of the category in a way that is important
                        or useful for some intent or purpose. Shirts differ from pants in
                    the value of the "part of body" property, and all the shirt
                    subcategories share this "top part" value of that property.
                    However, shirts differ on other properties that determine the subcategory to
                    which they belong. 
                    
                    Even as we pay attention to these differentiating properties, it is
                    important to remember the other properties, the ones that members of a category
                    at any level in the hierarchy have in common with the members of the categories
                    that contain it. These properties are often described as "inherited" or "inferred" from the broader
                        category. For example, just as every shirt shares the "worn on top part
                        of body" property, every item of clothing shares the "can be
                        worn on the body" property, and every resource in the
                        "shirts" and "pants" category inherits that
                    property.
Each differentiating property
                        creates another level in the category hierarchy, which raises an obvious
                        question: How many properties and levels do we need? In order to
                    answer this question we must reflect upon the shirt categories in our closet.
                    Our organizing system for shirts arranges them with the three properties of
                    style, sleeve length, and color; some of the categories at the lowest level of
                    the resulting hierarchy might have only one member, or no members at all. You
                    might have yellow or red short-sleeved party shirts, but probably do not have
                    yellow or red long-sleeved dress shirts, making them empty categories. Obviously, any category with only one member does
                        not need any additional properties to tell the members apart, so a category
                        hierarchy is logically complete if every resource is in a category by
                        itself.
However, even when the lowest level categories
                    of our shirt organizing system have more than one member, we might choose not to
                    use additional properties to subdivide it because the differences that remain
                    among the members do not matter to us for the interactions the organizing system
                    needs to support. Suppose we have two long-sleeve white dress shirts from
                    different shirt makers, but whenever we need to wear one of them, we ignore this
                    property. Instead, we just pick one or the other, treating the shirts as
                    completely equivalent or 
                     substitutable. 
                    When the remaining
                        differences between members of a category do not make a difference to the
                        users of the category, we can say that the organizing system is
                        pragmatically or practically complete even if it is not yet logically
                        complete. That is to say, it is complete "for all intents and
                        purposes."
On the other hand, consider the shirt section
                    of a big department store. Shirts there might be organized by style, sleeve
                    length, and color as they are in our home closet, but would certainly be further
                    organized by shirt maker and by size to enable a shopper to find a Marc
                        Jacobs long-sleeve blue dress shirt of size 15/35. The department
                    store organizing system needs more properties and a deeper hierarchy for the
                    shirt domain because it has a much larger number of shirt instances to organize
                    and because it needs to support many shirt shoppers, not just one person whose
                    shirts are all the same size.
Classifying Hawaiian "Boardshorts"

The swimsuits worn
                                        by surfers, called "boardshorts," have evolved
                                        from purely functional garments to symbols of extreme sports
                                        and the Hawaiian lifestyle. 
                                        A 2012 exhibition 
                                        at the Honolulu Museum of Art
                                        captured the diversity of boardshorts on three facets,
                                        classifying them according to their material, how they
                                        fastened around the surfer's fly and waist, and their
                                        length.
(Photo by R. Glushko.)



6.3.3.2. Different Properties for Subsets of Resources
A different
                        way to use multiple resource properties to create categories in an
                        organizing system is to employ different properties for distinct subsets of
                        the resources being organized. This contrasts with the strict multi-level
                        approach in which every resource is evaluated with respect to every
                        property. Alternatively, we could view this principle as a way of
                    organizing multiple domains that are conceptually or physically adjacent, each
                    of which has a separate set of categories based on properties of the resources
                    in that domain. This principle is used for most folder structures in computer
                    file systems and by many email applications; you can create as many folder
                    categories as you want, but any resource can only be placed in one
                    folder.
The contrasts between intrinsic and extrinsic
                    properties, and between static and dynamic ones, are helpful in explaining this
                    method of creating organizing categories. For example, you might organize all of
                    your clothes using intrinsic static properties if you keep your shirts, socks,
                    and sweaters in different drawers and arrange them by color; extrinsic static
                    properties if you share your front hall closet with a roommate, so you each use
                    only one side of that closet space; intrinsic dynamic properties if you arrange
                    your clothes for ready access according to the season; and, extrinsic dynamic
                    properties if you keep your most frequently used jacket and hat on a hook by the
                    front door.
If we relax the requirement
                        that different subsets of resources use different organizing properties and
                        allow any property to be used to describe any resource, the loose organizing
                        principle we now have is often called tagging. Using any property of a
                    resource to create a description is an uncontrolled and often unprincipled
                    principle for creating categories, but it is increasingly popular for organizing
                    photos, web sites, email messages in gmail, or other
                    web-based resources. We discuss tagging in more detail
                        in §4.2.2.3, "Tagging of
                            Web-Based Resources."
A Supermarket Map

A typical
                                        supermarket embodies a surprisingly complex classification
                                        system. Careful analysis of the map here reveals that each
                                        section of the store employs a different set of properties
                                        to arrange its resources, and some properties such as
                                        perishability and onsite preparation are important in more
                                        than one section. 
The store depicted here went out of
                                    business in 2012 despite a prime location in a neighborhood
                                    devoid of supermarkets, so its name has been removed from the
                                    photo to hide its shame.
(Photo by R. Glushko.)



6.3.3.3. Necessary and Sufficient Properties
A large set of resources does not always
                        require many properties and categories to organize it. Some types
                    of categories can be defined precisely with just a few essential properties. For example, a prime number is a positive
                    integer that has no divisors other than 1 and itself, and this category
                    definition perfectly distinguishes prime and not-prime numbers no matter how
                    many numbers are being categorized. "Positive integer" and
                        "divisible only by 1 and itself" are necessary or defining
                    properties for the prime number category; every prime number must satisfy these
                    properties. These properties are also sufficient to establish membership in the prime
                    number category; any number that satisfies the necessary properties is a prime
                    number. Categories
                        defined by necessary and sufficient properties are also called monothetic.
                        They are also sometimes called classical
                            categories because they conform to Aristotle's theory of how categories are used in logical deduction using
                        syllogisms.
 (See the sidebar, The Classical View of Categories.)
Theories of categorization have
                        evolved a great deal since Plato and Aristotle proposed them over two
                        thousand years ago, but in many ways we still adhere to classical views of
                        categories when we create organizing systems because they can be easier to
                        implement and maintain that way.
An important implication of necessary
                        and sufficient category definition is that every member of the category is
                        an equally good member or example of the category; every prime number is
                        equally prime. Institutional category systems are often designed to
                    have necessary and sufficient properties because it makes them conceptually
                    simple and gives them a straightforward implementation in technologies like
                    database schemas, decision
                        trees, and classes in programming languages.
The Classical View of Categories
The classical view is
                            that categories are defined by necessary and sufficient
                            properties. This theory has been enormously influential in
                        Western thought, and is embodied in many organizing systems, especially
                        those for information resources. 
However, as we will explain, we cannot
                        rely on this principle to create categories in many domains and contexts
                        because there are not necessary and sufficient properties. As a result, many
                        psychologists, cognitive scientists, and computer scientists who think about
                        categorization have criticized the classical theory.
We think this is unfair to Aristotle, who proposed what we now call the classical theory primarily
                        to explain how categories underlie the logic of deductive reasoning: All men
                        are mortal; Socratesis a man; Therefore, Socrates is mortal. People are wrong to turn Aristotle's thinking
                        around and apply it to the problem of inductive reasoning, how categories
                        are created in the first place. But this is not Aristotle's fault; he was not trying to explain how natural cultural
                        categories arise.

Consider the definition of an address as
                    requiring a street, city, governmental region, and postal code. Anything that
                    has all of these information
                        components is therefore considered to be a valid address, and
                    anything that lacks any of them will not be considered to be a valid address. If
                    we refine the properties of an address to require the governmental region to be
                    a state, and specifically one of the United States Postal
                        Service's list of official state and territory codes, we create a
                    subcategory for US addresses that uses an enumerated category as part of its
                    definition. Similarly, we could create a subcategory for Canadian addresses by
                    exchanging the name "province" for state, and using an enumerated
                    list of Canadian province and territory codes.


6.3.4. The Limits of Property-Based Categorization
Property-based
                            categorization works tautologically well for
                    categories like "prime number" where the category is defined by
                    necessary and sufficient properties. Property-based categorization also works
                    well when properties are conceptually distinct and the value of a property is
                    easy to perceive and examine, as they are with man-made physical resources like
                    shirts.
Historical experience with organizing
                    systems that need to categorize information resources has shown that basing
                    categories on easily perceived properties is often not effective. There
                might be indications "on the surface" that suggest the
                    "joints" or boundaries between types of information resources, but these are
                often just presentation or packaging choices, That is to say, neither the size of a
                book nor the color of its cover are reliable cues for what it contains. Information
                resources have numerous descriptive properties like their title, author, and
                publisher that can be used more effectively to define categories, and these are
                certainly useful for some kinds of interactions, like finding all of the books
                written by a particular author or published by the same publisher. However, for practical purposes, the most useful
                    property of an information resource is its 
                    aboutness, which may not be objectively perceivable
                    and which is certainly hard to characterize. Any collection of information resources in a library or document filing
                system is likely to be about many subjects and topics, and when an individual
                resource is categorized according to a limited number of its content properties, it
                is at the same time not being categorized using the others.
Classifying the Web: Yahoo! in 1996


Their goal was to manually
                                    assign every web page to a category.

(Screenshot by R. Glushko. 
                                Source: 
                                Internet Archive wayback machine.)
Internet Archive wayback machine.



When the web first started, there were many
                attempts to create categories of web sites, most notably by
                    Yahoo! As the web grew, it became obvious that search engines
                would be vastly more useful because their near real-time text indexes obviate the
                need for a priori assignment of web
                pages to categories. Rather, web search engines represent each web page or document
                in a way that treats each word or term they contain as a separate property.
Considering every distinct word in a document as a property
                stretches our notion of property to make it very different from the kinds of
                properties we have discussed in the previous two sections of this chapter. We do not
                need that generality yet, so we will defer further discussion of document
                representation for search engines until Chapter 8 and stick with our more intuitive and limited concept of property.

6.3.5. Family Resemblance
In general, categorization
                    based on explicit and logical consideration of properties is much less
                    effective, and sometimes not even possible for domains where properties lack one
                    or more of the characteristics of separability, perceptibility, and
                    necessity. Instead, we need to categorize using properties in a
                statistical rather than a logical way to come up with some measure of resemblance or
                similarity between the resource to be categorized and the other members of the
                category.
Consider a familiar category like
                "bird." All birds have feathers, wings, beaks, and two legs. But
                there are thousands of types of birds, and they are distinguished by properties that
                some birds have that other birds lack: most birds can fly, most are active in the
                daytime, some swim, some swim underwater; some have webbed feet. These properties
                are correlated, a consequence of natural selection that conveys advantages to
                particular configurations of characteristics; birds that live in trees have
                different wings and feet than those that swim, for example. In the end, there is no
                single set of properties that are both necessary and sufficient to categorize a
                bird.
There are three related consequences of this complex distribution
                of properties for birds and for many other categories in cultural or natural (as
                opposed to man-made) domains. 

The first is an effect of typicality or centrality that makes some members of the category
                better examples than others, even if they share most properties. 
                Try to define "friend"
                    and then ask yourself if all of the people you consider friends are equally good
                    examples of the category. 
                    
 
                    This effect is also described as gradience
in category membership and reflects the extent to which the most
                    characteristic properties are shared.

A second consequence is
                            that the sharing of some but not all properties creates what we call
                                family resemblances among the category
                            members; just as biological family members do not necessarily all share
                            a single set of physical features but still are recognizable as members
                            of the same family. This idea was first proposed by the 20th century philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, who used "games" as an example of a category
                        whose members resemble each other according to shifting property
                            subsets.
What Is a Game?
Ludwig Wittgenstein (1889-1951) was a philosopher who thought deeply about
                    mathematics, the mind, and language. In 1999, his Philosophical
                            Investigations was ranked as the most important book
                    of 20th century philosophy in a poll of
                        philosophers. In that book, Wittgenstein uses "game" to argue that
                    many concepts have no defining properties, and that instead there is a
                        "complicated network of similarities overlapping and criss-crossing:
                        sometimes overall similarities, sometimes similarities of detail." He
                    contrasts board games, card games, ball games, games of skill, games of luck,
                    games with competition, solitary games, and games for amusement. Wittgenstein
                    notes that not all games are equally good examples of the category, and jokes
                    about teaching children a gambling game with dice because he knows that this is
                    not the kind of game that the parents were thinking of when they asked him to
                    teach their children a game.


The third consequence, when categories do not have necessary
                features for membership, is that the boundaries of the category are not fixed; the
                category can be stretched and new members assigned as long as they resemble
                incumbent members. Personal video games and multiplayer online games like
                    World of Warcraft did not exist in Wittgenstein's
                time but we have no trouble recognizing them as games and neither would
                Wittgenstein, were he alive. Recall that in Chapter 1 we pointed out that the cultural category of
                    "library" has been repeatedly extended by new properties, as when
                    Flickr is described as a web-based photo-sharing
                library. Categories defined by family resemblance or multiple and shifting property
                sets are termed polythetic.

We conclude that instead of using properties
                one at a time to assign category membership, we can use them in a composite or
                integrated way to determine similarity. Something is categorized as an A and not a B
                if it is more similar to A's best or most typical member rather than it is to
                    B's.
Family Resemblance and Typicality
These six animals have some physical features in common but not all of them, 
                    yet they resemble each other enough to be easily recognizable as birds. Most people
                    consider a pigeon to be a more typical bird than a penguin.


A penguin, a pigeon, a swan, a frigate bird,
                                a flamingo, and a stork.
(Photos by R. Glushko.)




6.3.6. Similarity
Similarity is a very flexible
                    notion whose meaning depends on the domain within which we apply it.
                Some people consider that the concept of similarity is itself meaningless because
                there must always be some basis, some unstated set of properties, for determining
                whether two things are similar. If we could identify those properties and how they
                are used, there would not be any work for a similarity mechanism to do.

To make similarity a useful mechanism for categorization we
                    have to specify how the similarity measure is determined. There are four major
                    psychological approaches that propose different functions for computing
                    similarity: feature- or property-based, geometry-based, alignment-based, and
                    transformational. Each of these psychological definitions or models of similarity has
                analogues in or can be applied to organizing systems.
An influential model of
                    feature-based similarity calculation is the contrast model proposed by Amos Tversky. This model matches the features or properties of the two
                things being compared and computes a similarity measure according to three sets of
                features: 
                those they share,those that the first has that the second lacks, andthose that the second has that the first lacks.
                The similarity that results from the set
                of shared features is reduced by the two sets of distinctive features. The weights
                or importance assigned to each of these three sets can be adjusted to explain how
                items are assigned to a set of categories.
We often use a heuristic version of
                    feature-based similarity calculation when we create multi-level or hierarchical
                    category systems to ensure that the categories at each level are at the same
                    level of abstraction or breadth. For example, if we were organizing a
                collection of musical instruments, it would not seem correct to have subcategories
                of "woodwind instruments,"
"violins," and "cellos" because the feature-based
                similarity among the categories is not the same for all pairwise comparisons among
                the categories; violins and cellos are simply too similar to each other to be
                separate categories given woodwinds as a category.
Geometric models are a second type of
                    similarity framework, in which items are represented as points in a
                    multi-dimensional feature- or property-space and similarity is calculated by
                    measuring the distance between them. How distance is measured depends
                on the type of properties that characterize a domain. When properties that are
                psychologically or perceptually combined, a Euclidean "point-to-point" distance function best
                accounts for category judgments; but when properties can be conceptually separated,
                a "city block" distance function works best to explain psychological
                data, because that ensures that each property value contributes its full amount.
                Geometric similarity functions are commonly used by search engines; if a query and
                document are each represented as a vector of search terms, relevance is determined
                by the distance between the vectors in the "document space."
We will discuss how this works in greater detail in Chapter 9, "Interactions with Resources".
Alignment-based similarity
                    models have been proposed for domains in which the items to be categorized are
                    characterized by abstract or complex relationships with their features and with
                    each other. With this model
                an entity need not be understood as inherently possessing features shared in common
                with another entity. Rather, people project features from one thing to another in a
                search for congruities between things, much as clue receivers in the second round of
                the Pyramid game search for congruities between examples
                provided by the clue giver in order to guess the target category. For example, a
                clue like "screaming baby" can suggest many categories, as can
                    "parking meter." But the likely intersection of the interactions
                one can have with babies and parking meters is that they are both "Things you
                    need to feed."
Transformational models for
                    calculating similarity assume that the similarity between two things is
                    inversely proportional to the complexity of the transformation required to turn
                    one into the other. For example, 
                one way to perform the name matching task of determining when two different
                strings denote the same person, object, or other named entity is to calculate the
                    "edit distance" between them, the number of changes required to
                transform one into the other. Two strings with a short edit distance might be
                variant spellings or misspellings of the same name.

6.3.7. Theory-Based Categories
Another principle for creating categories is
                    organizing things in ways that fit a theory or story that makes a particular
                    categorization sensible. A theory-based category can win out even if
                        family resemblance
                    or similarity with respect to
                    visible properties would lead to a different category assignment. For
                example, a theory of phase change explains why liquid water, ice, and steam are all the same chemical compound even though they do not share 
                their most visible properties.
                    
Theory-based categories based
                    on origin or causation are especially important with highly inventive and
                    computational resources because unlike natural kinds of physical resources,
                    little or none of what they can do or how they behave is visible on the surface
                    (see §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"). Consider all of the different
                appearances and form factors of the resources that we categorize as
                    "computers"
—their essence is that they all compute, an invisible or
                theory-like principle that does not depend on their visible properties.

6.3.8. Goal-Derived Categories
A final principle for creating
                    categories is to organize resources that go together in order to satisfy a
                    goal. Consider the category "Things to take from a burning
                    house," an example that cognitive scientist 
                
Lawrence Barsalou termed an 
                ad hoc
                or goal-derived category.
                What things would you take from your house if your
                    neighborhood were burning? Possibly your cat, your wallet and
                checkbook, your important papers like birth certificates and passports, and
                grandma's old photo album, and anything else you think is important, priceless, or
                    irreplaceable—as long as you can carry it. These items
                have almost no discernible properties in common, except for somehow being your most
                precious possessions. The category is derived or induced by a particular goal in
                some specified context.
Things Used at the Gym


A hand towel, a music
                                    player with headphones, and a bottle of water have no properties
                                    in common but they could be organized together because they are
                                    members of the "things used at the gym when working
                                        out" category. This category would fit very well with
                                    the many ad hoc
                                    or goal-derived categories that gave contestants so much trouble
                                    on the Pyramid game show.

(Photo by R. Glushko.)















6.4. Category Design Issues and Implications
We have previously discussed the most
                important principles for creating categories: resource properties, similarity, and
                goals. When we use one or more of these principles to develop a system of
                categories, we must make decisions about its depth and breadth. Here, we
            examine the idea that some levels of abstraction in a system of categories are more
            basic or natural than others. We also consider how the choices we make affect how we
            create the organizing system in the first place, and how they shape our interactions
            when we need to find some resources that are categorized in it.
6.4.1. Category Abstraction and Granularity
We can identify any resource as a unique
                    instance or as a member of a class of resources.
The size of this class—the number of
                    resources that are treated as equivalent—is determined by
                    the properties or characteristics we consider when we examine the resources in
                    some domain.
The way we think of a resource domain depends on context
                    and intent, so the same resource can be thought of abstractly in some situations
                    and very concretely in others. As we discussed in Chapter 4, "Resource Description and Metadata", this influences the nature and extent of resource
                description, and as we have seen in this chapter, it then influences the nature and
                extent of categories we can create.
Consider the regular chore of putting away clean clothes. We can
                consider any item of clothing as just that—a member of a
                broad category whose members are any kind of garment that a person might wear. Using
                one category for all clothing, that is, failing to distinguish among the various
                items in any useful or practical way would likely mean that we would keep our
                clothes in a big unorganized pile.
However, we cannot wear any random combination of clothing
                    items—we need a shirt, a pair of pants, socks, and so on.
                Clearly, our indiscriminate clothing category is too broad for most purposes. So
                instead, most people organize their clothes in more fine-grained categories that fit
                the normal pattern of how they wear clothes. For example, everyone probably
                separates their shirts, pants, and socks when they put away their clothes after
                doing their laundry. Some pants and shirts may merit wooden hangers; others may rest
                in special drawers.
In §6.3.2, "Single Properties" we described an organizing
                system for the shirts in our closet, so let us talk about socks instead. When it
                comes to socks, most people think that the basic unit is a pair because they always
                wear two socks at a time. If you are going to need to find socks in pairs, it seems
                sensible to organize them into pairs when you are putting them away. Some people
                might further separate their dress socks from athletic ones, and then sort these
                socks by color or material, creating a hierarchy of sock categories analogous to the
                shirt categories in our previous example. We note, parenthetically, that not
                everyone works this hard when putting their clothes away; some people toss all the
                single, unpaired socks in a drawer and then rummage around when they need to find a
                matching pair of socks. People differ in their preferences or tolerances for the
                amount of granularity in an organizing system and we need to expect and respect
                these differences.
Questions of resource abstraction and granularity also emerge
                whenever the information systems of different firms, or different parts of a firm,
                need to exchange information or be merged into a single system. All parties must
                define the identity of each thing in the same way, or in ways that can be related or
                mapped to each other either manually or electronically.
For example, how should a business
                    system deal with a customer's address? Printed on an envelope,
                    "an address" typically appears as a comprehensive, multi-line text
                object. Inside an information system, however, an address is stored as separate
                information components for each printed line, or as a set of distinctly identifiable
                information components. This fine-grained organization makes it easier to sort
                customers by city or postal codes, for sales and marketing purposes.
                Incompatibilities in the abstraction and granularity of these information
                components, and the ways in which they are presented and reused in documents, will
                cause interoperability problems when businesses need to share information, some of
                which may be difficult to detect because of the vocabulary problem.

6.4.2. Basic or Natural Categories
Category abstraction is normally
                    described in terms of a hierarchy of superordinate, basic, and
                        subordinate category levels.
"Clothing," for example, is a superordinate category,
                    "shirts" and "socks" are basic categories, and
                    "white long-sleeve dress shirts" and "white wool hiking
                    socks" are subordinate categories. Members of basic level categories like
                    "shirts" and "socks" have many perceptual properties
                in common, and are more strongly associated with motor movements than members of
                superordinate categories. Members of subordinate categories have many common
                properties, but these properties are also shared by members of other subordinate
                categories at the same level of abstraction in the category hierarchy. That is,
                while we can identify many properties shared by all "white long-sleeve dress
                    shirts," many of them are also properties of "blue long-sleeve
                    dress shirts" and "black long-sleeve pullover
                shirts."

6.4.3. The Recall / Precision Tradeoff
The abstraction level we choose determines how
                    precisely we identify resources. When we want to make a general claim,
                or communicate that the scope of our interest is broad, we use superordinate
                categories, as when we ask, "How many animals are in the San Diego
                        Zoo?" But we use precise subordinate categories when we
                need to be specific: "How many adult emus are in the San Diego
                        Zoo today?"
If we return to our clothing example, finding a pair of white wool
                hiking socks is very easy if the organizing system for socks creates fine-grained
                categories. When resources are described or arranged with this level of detail, a
                similarly detailed specification of the resources you are looking for yields
                precisely what you want. When you get to the place where you keep white wool hiking
                socks, you find all of them and nothing else. On the other hand, if all your socks
                are tossed unsorted into a sock drawer, when you go sock hunting you might not be
                able to find the socks you want and you will encounter lots of socks you do not
                want. But you will not have put time into sorting them, which many people do not enjoy
                doing; you can spend time sorting or searching depending on your preferences.
If we translate this example into the jargon of information
                retrieval, we say that more fine-grained organization reduces recall, the number of
                resources you find or retrieve in response to a query, but increases the precision of the
                recalled set, the proportion of recalled items that are relevant. Broader or coarse-grained categories increase recall, but lower
                    precision. We are all too familiar with this hard bargain when we use a
                web search engine; a quick one-word query results in many pages of mostly irrelevant
                sites, whereas a carefully crafted multi-word query pinpoints sites with the
                information we seek. We will discuss recall, precision, and evaluation of
                information retrieval more extensively in Chapter 9, "Interactions with Resources".
This mundane example illustrates the fundamental tradeoff between
                organization and retrieval. A tradeoff between the
                    investment in organization and the investment in retrieval persists in nearly
                    every organizing system. The more effort we put into organizing
                resources, the more effectively they can be retrieved. The more effort we are
                willing to put into retrieving resources, the less they need to be organized first.
                The allocation of costs and benefits between the organizer and retriever differs
                according to the relationship between them. Are they
                    the same person? Who does the work and who gets the benefit?

6.4.4. Category Audience and Purpose
The ways in which people categorize
                    depend on the goals of categorization, the breadth of the resources in the
                    collection to be categorized, and the users of the organizing system.
                Suppose that we want to categorize languages. Our first step might be determining
                what constitutes a language, since there is no widespread agreement on what
                differentiates a language from a dialect, or even on whether such a distinction
                exists.
What we mean by "English" and "Chinese"
                as categories can change depending on the audience we are addressing and what our
                purpose is, however. A language learning school's representation of "English"
                might depend on practical concerns such as how the school's students are likely to
                use the language they learn, or which teachers are available. 
                For the purposes of a school teaching global languages, 
                and one of the standard varieties of English 
                (i.e., those associated with political power), 
                or an amalgamation of several standard varieties, 
                might be thought of as a single instance 
                ("English") of the category "Languages."
Similarly, the category structure in which "Chinese"
                is situated can vary with context. While some schools might not conceptualize
                    "Chinese" as a category encompassing multiple linguistic varieties,
                but rather as a single instance within the "Languages" category,
                another school might teach its students Mandarin, Wu, and Cantonese as dialects
                within the language category "Chinese," that are unified by a single
                standard writing system. In
                addition, a linguist might consider Mandarin, Wu, and Cantonese to be mutually
                unintelligible, making them separate languages within the broader category
                    "Chinese" for the purpose of creating a principled language
                classification system.
In fact languages can be categorized in multitude of ways. If we
                are concerned with linguistic diversity and the survival of minority languages, we
                might categorize some languages as endangered in order to mobilize language
                preservation efforts. We could also categorize languages in terms of shared
                linguistic ancestors ("Romance languages," for example), in terms of
                what kinds of sounds they make use of, by how well we speak them, by regions they
                are commonly spoken in, whether they are signed or unsigned, and so on. We could
                also expand our definition of the languages category to include artificial computer
                languages, or body language, or languages shared by people and their
                    pets—or thinking more metaphorically, we might include
                the language of fashion.
If people could only categorize in a single way, the
                    Pyramid game show, where contestants guess what category
                is illustrated by the example provided by a clue giver, would pose no challenge. The
                creative possibilities provided by categorization allow people to order the world
                and refer to interrelationships among conceptions through a kind of allusive
                shorthand. When we talk about the language of fashion, we suggest that in the
                context of our conversation, instances like "English,"
"Chinese," and "fashion" are alike in ways that
                distinguish them from other things that we would not categorize as languages.












6.5. Implementing Categories
We have emphasized the intellectual choices and challenges that arise
            in the design of a system of categories because, at their essence, categories are
            conceptual or mental constructs. We use categories in a mostly invisible way when we
            communicate, solve problems, or organize our kitchens and clothes closets. Sometimes
            categories are more apparent, as when we see signs and labels in the aisles of
            department or grocery stores to help us find things, when we put our socks and t-shirts
            in different dresser drawers, or when we create a system of folders and directories in
            our file cabinets or on our personal computers.
The most visible implementations of a category system are usually
            those for institutional categories, especially those that are embodied in the organizing
            systems for information resources where category membership can be verified by
            technology and the boundaries between categories are precise. In this final section of
            the chapter we briefly discuss some of the most important technologies for implementing
            categories, contrasting those that are appropriate for categories where membership is
            defined using properties with those that work for categories defined on the basis of
            similarity.
6.5.1. Implementing Classical Categories
The most conceptually simple and
                        straightforward implementation of categories in technologies for organizing
                        systems adopts the classical view of categories based on
                        necessary and sufficient features. This approach results in
                    prescriptive categories with explicit and clear boundaries. Classifying items
                    into the categories is objective and deterministic and supports a well-defined
                    notion of validation to
                    determine unambiguously whether some instance is a member of the
                    category.
The most direct way
                    to implement classical categories is as a decision tree. A simple decision tree is an algorithm
                    for determining a decision by making a sequence of logical or property
                    tests. For example, we can classify numbers as prime or not with two
                tests: is it greater than 1, and does it have any divisors other than itself and 1.
                More complex categories need more tests. We can model the CAFE fuel economy standards (§6.2.4, "A "Categorization Continuum"") that assign vehicles to
                    "car,"
"truck," and "light truck" categories using a decision
                tree whose differentiating tests are (1) the maximum number of passengers (cars have
                10 or fewer), (2) off-road capability (cars do not have it), and (3) weight (trucks
                weigh at least 6000 pounds), and (4) function (numerous sub-tests that classify
                vehicles as trucks even if they weigh less than 6000 pounds).
Everyday Decision Trees



                                Decision trees full of snarky or humorous descriptions of everyday situations 
                                have become a popular Internet meme in the past few years. 
                                Good examples include designer 
                                Julian Hansen's 
                                "So You Need A Typeface" 
                                infographic (pictured) 
                                and Jessica Hische's 
                                "Should I Work for Free?"
website
                                for freelance workers.
(Screenshot by 
                                Ian MacFarland.)



Precisely because natural language
                    embodies cultural categories, it is not the optimal representational format for
                    formally defined institutional categories. Categories defined using
                natural language can easily be incomplete, inconsistent, or ambiguous, so they are
                sometimes defined using "simplified writing" or "business
                    rules" that in the aggregate create a decision tree or network that reliably
                classifies instances. However, the vast majority of institutional category systems are still
                specified with natural language, despite its ambiguities. Sometimes this is even
                intentional to allow institutional categories embodied in laws to evolve in the
                courts and to accommodate technological advances.

Data
                            schemas that specify data entities, elements,
                    identifiers, attributes, and relationships in databases and XML
                    document types on the transactional end of the Document Type Spectrum (§3.2.1) are implementations of the
                    categories needed for the design, development and maintenance of information
                    organization systems. Like the classical model of categorization, data schemas
                    tend to rigidly define resources.
"Rigid" might sound negative, but a rigidly defined resource is also
                precisely defined. Precise definition is essential when creating, capturing, and
                retrieving data and when information about resources in different organizing systems
                needs to be combined or compared.
In object-oriented
                    programming languages, classes are schemas that serve as templates for the
                    creation of objects. A class in a
                    programming language is analogous to a database schema that specifies the
                    structure of its member instances, in that the class definition specifies how
                    instances of the class are constructed in terms of data types and possible
                    values. Programming classes may also specify whether data in a member object can
                    be accessed, and if so, how.

6.5.2. Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory
Unlike transactional document types,
                    which can be prescriptively defined as classical categories
                    because they are often produced and consumed by automated processes, narrative
                    document types are usually descriptive in character. We do not classify
                something as a novel because it has some specific set of properties and content
                types. Instead, we have a notion of typical novels and their characteristic
                properties, and some things that are considered novels are far from typical in their
                structure and content.
Nevertheless, categories like narrative document types can sometimes be
                implemented using document schemas that impose only a few constraints on structure
                and content. Unlike a schema for a purchase order that uses regular expressions, strongly
                data typed content and enumerated code lists to validate the value of required
                elements that must occur in a particular order, a schema for a narrative document
                type would have much optionality, be flexible about order, and expect only text in
                its sections, paragraphs and headings. Even very lax
                    document schemas can be useful in making content management, reuse, and
                    formatting more efficient.
Category types that are
                    furthest in character from the classical model are those that are not defined
                    using properties in any explicit way. We do not use technology to help
                us understand cultural categories like "friend" or "game"
                that rely on some notion of similarity to determine category membership. However,
                there are technologies that can create a system of categories that uses similarity
                as its basis.
In particular, machine learning is
                    a subfield of computer science that develops and applies algorithms that
                    accomplish tasks that are not explicitly programmed; creating categories and
                    assigning items to them is an important subset of machine learning. Two
                    subfields of machine learning that are particularly relevant to organizing
                    systems are supervised
                    and unsupervised
                    learning.
In supervised
                        learning, a machine learning program is trained by
                    giving it sample items or documents that are labeled by category, and the
                    program learns to assign new items to the correct categories.
In unsupervised
                        learning, the program gets the samples but has to
                    come up with the categories on its own by discovering the underlying
                    correlations between the items; that is why unsupervised learning is sometimes
                    called statistical pattern
                            recognition. This generally takes
                longer, since the program is not given correct answers to use in improving its
                performance, as it is in the supervised case. As we pointed out in §6.2.1, "Cultural Categories", we learn most of our cultural categories without any
                explicit instruction about them, so it is not surprising that computational models
                of categorization developed by cognitive scientists often employ unsupervised
                statistical learning methods. We will now briefly discuss unsupervised learning and
                return to supervised learning in Chapter 7, "Classification: Assigning Resources to Categories".
There are far too many unsupervised learning techniques for
                categorization to even mention them all, let alone describe how they work. The ones
                that are most relevant for us are called clustering techniques, which share the
                same goal and three basic methods. 
            
            
Clustering techniques share the goal of creating
                        meaningful categories from a collection of items whose properties are hard to
                        directly perceive and evaluate; this is especially true with large collections
                        of heterogeneous documents, where goals might be to find categories of documents
                        with the same topics, genre, sentiment, or other characteristic that cannot
                        easily be reduced to specific property tests.

The first shared method is that clustering techniques start with
                        an initially uncategorized set of items or documents from which some measures of
                        inter-item similarity can be calculated.

The second shared method is that categories are created by putting
                        items that are most similar into the same category. Hierarchical clustering
                        approaches start with every item in its own category. Other approaches, notably one
                        called "K-means clustering," start with a fixed number of K
                        categories initialized with a randomly chosen item or document.

The third shared method is refining the system of categories by
                        iterative similarity recalculation each time an item is added to a category.
                        Approaches that start with every item in its own category create a hierarchical
                        system of categories by merging the two most similar categories, recomputing the
                        similarity between the new category and the remaining ones, and repeating this
                        process until all the categories are merged into a single category at the root of a
                        category tree. Techniques that start with a fixed number of categories do not create
                        new ones but instead repeatedly recalculate the "center" of the
                        category by adjusting its property representation to the average of all its members
                        after a new member is added.


The end result of clustering is a
                    statistically optimal set of categories in which the similarity of all the items
                    within a category is larger than the similarity of items that belong to
                    different categories. This is a statistical result produced by a
                computer, and there is no guarantee that the categories are meaningful ones that can
                be named and used by people. In the end, clustering relies on the data analyst or
                information scientist to make sense of the clusters if they are to be used to
                classify resources. In many cases it is better to start with categories created by
                people and then teach them to computers that can use supervised learning techniques
                to assign new resources to the categories.













Self-Review

Question









Answer




6.6. Key Points in Chapter Six
Switch to Quiz Mode
What are categories?

Categories are equivalence
                            classes: sets or groups of things or abstract entities that
                        we treat the same.
See §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

What determines the size of the
                        equivalence class?

The size of the equivalence class is determined by the
                        properties or characteristics we consider.
See §6.2, "The What and Why of Categories"

What terms are typically used to
                        describe the level of abstraction of a category?

We can describe category abstraction in terms of a hierarchy of
                            superordinate, basic, and
                            subordinate category levels.
See §6.4.1, "Category Abstraction and Granularity"

What types of resource properties can
                        be used to organize a collection?

Any particular collection of resources can be organized
                        using a combination of intrinsic, extrinsic, static and dynamic resource
                        properties.

How does the breadth of a category
                        affect the recall/precision tradeoff?

Broader or coarse-grained categories increase
                            recall, but lower
                        precision.
See §6.4.3, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"

What are so-called "classical
                            categories"?

Classical categories can be defined precisely with just a
                        few necessary and
                            sufficient properties.
See §6.4.2, "Basic or Natural Categories"

What can one say about any member of
                        a classical category in terms of how it represents the category?

An important implication of necessary and sufficient
                        category definition is that every member of the category is an equally good
                        member or example of the category.
See §6.3.3.3, "Necessary and Sufficient Properties"

What is the practical benefit of
                        defining categories according to necessary and sufficient features?

The most conceptually simple and straightforward
                        implementation of categories in technologies for organizing systems adopts
                        the classical view of categories based on necessary and sufficient
                        features.
See §6.3.3.3, "Necessary and Sufficient Properties"

Why does it matter if every resource
                        in a collection has a sortable identifier?

Any collection of resources with sortable
                        identifiers (alphabetic or numeric) as an associated property can benefit
                        from using sorting order as an organizing principle.
See §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

What is a hierarchical category
                        system?

A sequence of organizing decisions based on a fixed
                        ordering of resource properties creates a hierarchy, a
                        multi-level category system.
See §6.3.3.1, "Multi-Level or Hierarchical Categories"

What is family resemblance?

Sharing some but not all properties is akin to
                                family resemblances among the category
                            members.
See §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance"

What is the concern when only a
                        single property is used to assign category membership?

If only a single property is used to distinguish among
                        some set of resources and to create the categories in an organizing system,
                        the choice of property is critical because different properties often lead
                        to different categories.
See §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

What is similarity?

We use properties in a composite or integrated way to
                        determine similarity.
See §6.3.6, "Similarity"

What must be done to make similarity
                        a useful mechanism for categorization?

To make similarity a useful mechanism for categorization
                        we have to specify how similarity is measured.
See §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

What is aboutness?

For most purposes, the most
                            useful property of information resources for categorizing them is their
                                    aboutness, which is not directly
                            perceivable and which is hard to characterize.
See §6.3.4, "The Limits of Property-Based Categorization"

Why do we contrast cultural,
                        individual, and institutional categorization?

Cultural, individual, and institutional categorization
                        share some core ideas but they emphasize different processes and purposes
                        for creating categories.
See §6.2, "The What and Why of Categories"

What distinguishes individual
                        categories?

Individual categories are created by intentional activity
                        that usually takes place in response to a specific situation.
See §6.2.2, "Individual Categories"

What distinguishes institutional
                        categories?

Institutional categories are most often created in
                        abstract and information-intensive domains where unambiguous and precise
                        categories are needed.
See §6.2.3, "Institutional Categories"

What is the relation between
                        categories and classification?

The rigorous definition of institutional categories
                        enables classification, the systematic assignment of
                        resources to categories in an organizing system.
See §6.2.3, "Institutional Categories"

What is the intension of a
                        category?

Categories
                    whose members are determined by one or more properties or rules follow the
                    principle of intensional
                        definition, and the defining properties are called
                    the intension.
See §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

What is a decision tree?

The most direct way
                    to implement classical categories is as a decision tree. A simple decision tree is an algorithm
                    for determining a decision by making a sequence of logical or property
                    tests.
See §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories"

What is machine learning?

machine learning is
                    a subfield of computer science that develops and applies algorithms that
                    accomplish tasks that are not explicitly programmed; creating categories and
                    assigning items to them is an important subset of machine learning. Two
                    subfields of machine learning that are particularly relevant to organizing
                    systems are supervised
                    and unsupervised
                    learning.
See §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory"

What is clustering?

Clustering techniques share the goal of creating
                        meaningful categories from a collection of items whose properties are hard to
                        directly perceive and evaluate; this is especially true with large collections
                        of heterogeneous documents, where goals might be to find categories of documents
                        with the same topics, genre, sentiment, or other characteristic that cannot
                        easily be reduced to specific property tests.
See §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory"

Categories are equivalence
                            classes: sets or groups of things or abstract entities that
                        we treat the same.
See §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

The size of the equivalence class is determined by the
                        properties or characteristics we consider.
See §6.2, "The What and Why of Categories"

We can describe category abstraction in terms of a hierarchy of
                            superordinate, basic, and
                            subordinate category levels.
See §6.4.1, "Category Abstraction and Granularity"

Any particular collection of resources can be organized
                        using a combination of intrinsic, extrinsic, static and dynamic resource
                        properties.

Broader or coarse-grained categories increase
                            recall, but lower
                        precision.
See §6.4.3, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"

Classical categories can be defined precisely with just a
                        few necessary and
                            sufficient properties.
See §6.4.2, "Basic or Natural Categories"

An important implication of necessary and sufficient
                        category definition is that every member of the category is an equally good
                        member or example of the category.
See §6.3.3.3, "Necessary and Sufficient Properties"

The most conceptually simple and straightforward
                        implementation of categories in technologies for organizing systems adopts
                        the classical view of categories based on necessary and sufficient
                        features.
See §6.3.3.3, "Necessary and Sufficient Properties"

Any collection of resources with sortable
                        identifiers (alphabetic or numeric) as an associated property can benefit
                        from using sorting order as an organizing principle.
See §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

A sequence of organizing decisions based on a fixed
                        ordering of resource properties creates a hierarchy, a
                        multi-level category system.
See §6.3.3.1, "Multi-Level or Hierarchical Categories"

Sharing some but not all properties is akin to
                                family resemblances among the category
                            members.
See §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance"

If only a single property is used to distinguish among
                        some set of resources and to create the categories in an organizing system,
                        the choice of property is critical because different properties often lead
                        to different categories.
See §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

We use properties in a composite or integrated way to
                        determine similarity.
See §6.3.6, "Similarity"

To make similarity a useful mechanism for categorization
                        we have to specify how similarity is measured.
See §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

For most purposes, the most
                            useful property of information resources for categorizing them is their
                                    aboutness, which is not directly
                            perceivable and which is hard to characterize.
See §6.3.4, "The Limits of Property-Based Categorization"

Cultural, individual, and institutional categorization
                        share some core ideas but they emphasize different processes and purposes
                        for creating categories.
See §6.2, "The What and Why of Categories"

Individual categories are created by intentional activity
                        that usually takes place in response to a specific situation.
See §6.2.2, "Individual Categories"

Institutional categories are most often created in
                        abstract and information-intensive domains where unambiguous and precise
                        categories are needed.
See §6.2.3, "Institutional Categories"

The rigorous definition of institutional categories
                        enables classification, the systematic assignment of
                        resources to categories in an organizing system.
See §6.2.3, "Institutional Categories"

Categories
                    whose members are determined by one or more properties or rules follow the
                    principle of intensional
                        definition, and the defining properties are called
                    the intension.
See §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

The most direct way
                    to implement classical categories is as a decision tree. A simple decision tree is an algorithm
                    for determining a decision by making a sequence of logical or property
                    tests.
See §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories"

machine learning is
                    a subfield of computer science that develops and applies algorithms that
                    accomplish tasks that are not explicitly programmed; creating categories and
                    assigning items to them is an important subset of machine learning. Two
                    subfields of machine learning that are particularly relevant to organizing
                    systems are supervised
                    and unsupervised
                    learning.
See §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory"

Clustering techniques share the goal of creating
                        meaningful categories from a collection of items whose properties are hard to
                        directly perceive and evaluate; this is especially true with large collections
                        of heterogeneous documents, where goals might be to find categories of documents
                        with the same topics, genre, sentiment, or other characteristic that cannot
                        easily be reduced to specific property tests.
See §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory"












Chapter 7. Classification: Assigning Resources to CategoriesRobert J. GlushkoJess HemerlyVivien PetrasMichael ManoochehriLonghao Wang
7.1. Introduction
In Chapter 5 we discussed
            different types of semantic relationships and contrasted abstract relationships between
            categories that define a semantic hierarchy like 
        Meat → is-a → Food
 with concrete relationships involving specific people like members of
            the Simpson family: 
        Homer Simpson → is-a → Husband
 When we make an assertion that a particular instance like Homer
            Simpson is a member of class, we are classifying the instance. 
Classification, the systematic assignment of
                resources to intentional categories, is the focus of this chapter. In Chapter 6, "Categorization: Describing Resource Classes and Types", we described categories as cognitive and linguistic models
            for applying prior knowledge and we discussed a set of principles for creating
            categories and category systems. We explained how cultural categories serve as the
            foundations upon which individual and institutional categories are based. Institutional categories are most often created in
                abstract and information-intensive domains where unambiguous and precise categories
                enable classification to be purposeful and principled.
A system of
                    categories and its attendant rules or access methods is typically
                called a classification
                    scheme or just the classifications. A system of categories captures the
                distinctions and relationships among its resources that are most important in a
                domain and for a particular context of use, creating a reference model or conceptual
                roadmap for its users. This classification creates the structure and
            support for the interactions that human or computational agents perform. For example,
            research libraries and bookstores do not use the same classifications to organize books,
            but the categories they each use are appropriate for their contrasting types of
            collections and the different kinds of browsing and searching activities that take place
            in each context. Likewise, the scientific classifications for animals used by biologists
            contrast with those used in pet stores because the latter have no need for the precise
            differentiation enabled by the former.
Most of the chapter is a survey of topics that span
            the broad range of how classifications are used in organizing systems. These include
            enumerative classification, faceted classification, activity-based classification, and
            computational classification. Because classification and standardization are closely
            related, we also analyze standards and standards making as they apply to organizing
            systems. Throughout, we observe how personal, institutional, cultural, linguistic,
            political, religious and even artistic biases can affect otherwise principled and
            purposeful classification schemes.
7.1.1. Classification vs. Categorization
Classification requires a system of
                    categories, so not everyone distinguishes classification from
                    categorization. Batley, for example, says classification is
                    "imposing some sort of structure on our understanding of our
                    environment," a vague definition that applies equally well to
                    categorization.
In the discipline of organizing, the definition of
                classification is narrower and more formal. The contrasts among cultural,
                individual, and institutional categories in §6.2, "The What and Why of Categories" yield a
                precise definition of classification:
The systematic
                        assignment of resources to a system of intentional categories, often
                        institutional ones. This definition highlights the
                intentionality behind the system of categories, the systematic processes for using
                them, and implies the greater requirements for governance and maintenance that are absent for cultural categories and most
                individual ones.

7.1.2. Classification vs. Tagging
Precise and reliable
                    classification is possible when the shared properties of a collection of
                    resources are used in a principled and systematic manner. This method
                of classification is essential to satisfy institutional and commercial purposes.
                However, this degree of rigor might be excessive for personal classifications and
                for classifications of resources in social or informal contexts.
Instead, a weaker approach to organizing resources
                is to use any property of a resource and any vocabulary to describe it, regardless
                of how well it differentiates it from other resources to create a system of
                categories. This method of organizing resources is most often called
                    tagging (§4.2.2.3), but it has also been called social classification.
 Tagging is often used in personal organizing
                systems, but is social when it serves goals to convey information, develop a
                community, or manage reputation. Regardless of its name, however, tagging is popular
                for organizing and rating photos, websites, email messages, or other web-based
                resources or web-based descriptions of physical resources like stores and
                restaurants.
The distinction between classification and tagging was blurred when Thomas Vander Wal coined the term "folksonomy"
—combining "folk" and "taxonomy"
                (which is a classification; see §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion")
                    —to describe the collection of tags for a particular web
                site or application. Folksonomies are often displayed in the form of a tag cloud, where the
                frequency with which the tag is used throughout the site determines the size of the
                text in the tag cloud. The tag cloud emerges through the bottom-up aggregation of
                user tags and is a statistical construct, rather than a semantic one.
Tagging seems insufficiently principled to be considered
                    classification. Tagging a photo as "red" or
                    "car" is an act of resource description, not classification,
                because the other tags that would serve as the alternative classifications are
                unspecified. Furthermore, when tagging principles
                    are followed at all, they are likely to be idiosyncratic ones that were not
                    pre-determined or arrived at through an analysis of goals and
                    requirements.
Noticeably, some uses of tags treat them as
                category labels, turning tagging into classification. Many websites and resources
                encourage users to assign "Like" or "+1" tags to them, and
                because these tags are pre-defined, they are category choices in an implied
                classification system; for example, we can consider "Like" as an
                alternative to a "Not liked enough" category.
When users or
                    communities establish sets of principles to govern their tagging practices,
                    tagging is even more like classification. Such a tagging system can be called a
                        tagsonomy, a neologism
                    we have invented to describe more systematic tagging. For example, a
                tagsonomy could predetermine tags as categories to be assigned to particular
                contents of a blog post, or specify the level of abstraction and granularity for
                assigning tags without predetermining them (§6.4, "Category Design Issues and Implications"). Some
                people use multiple user accounts for the same application to establish distinct
                personas or contexts (e.g., personal vs. business photo collections) as a way to
                make their tagsonomies more distinct.
Making these
                    decisions about tagging content and form and applying them in the tagging
                    process transforms an ad hoc set
                    of tags into a principled tagsonomy. When tagging is introduced in a business
                    setting, more pragmatic purposes and more systematic
                        tagging—for example, by using tags from lists of
                    departments or products—also tends to create tagsonomic
                    classification.

7.1.3. Classification vs. Physical Arrangement
We have often
                    stressed the principle in the discipline of organizing that logical issues must
                    be separated from implementation issues (see §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle"",
                        §4.3.5, "Designing the Description Form", and §5.7, "The Implementation Perspective "). With classification we separate the conceptual act of assigning a
                resource to a category from the subsequent but often incidental act of putting it in
                some physical or digital storage location. This focus on the logical essence of
                classification is elegantly expressed in a definition by Gruenberg: Classification is "a
                        higher order thinking skill requiring the fusion of the naturalist's eye for
                        relationships... with the logician's desire for structured order... the
                        mathematician's compulsion to achieve consistent, predictable results... and
                        the linguist's interest in explicit and tacit expressions of
                        meaning."
Taking a conceptual or cognitive perspective on
                classification contrasts with much conventional usage in library science, where
                classification is mostly associated with arranging tangible items on shelves,
                emphasizing the "parking" function that realizes the
                    "marking" function of identifying the category to which the
                resource belongs.
From a library science or collection
                curation perspective, it seems undeniable that when the resources being classified
                are physical or tangible things such as books, paintings, animals, or cooking pots,
                the end result of the classification activity is that some resource has been placed
                in some physical location. Moreover, the placement of physical resources can be
                influenced by the physical context in which they are organized. Once placed, the
                physical context often embodies some aspects of the organization when similar or
                related resources are arranged in nearby locations. In libraries and bookstores,
                this adjacency facilitates the serendipitous discovery of resources, as anyone well
                knows who has found an interesting book by browsing the shelves.
However, once we broaden the scope of organizing
                to include digital resources, it is clear that we rely on their logical
                classifications when we interact with them, not whether they reside on a computer in
                Berkeley or Bangalore. It is better to emphasize that a
                    classification system is foremost a specification for the logical arrangement of
                    resources because there are usually many possible and often arbitrary mappings
                    of logical references to physical locations.

7.1.4. Classification Schemes
A classification scheme is a
                    realization of one or more organizing principles. Physical resources
                are often classified according to their tangible or perceivable properties. As we
                discussed in §6.3.2, "Single Properties" and §6.3.3, "Multiple Properties",
                when properties take on only a small set of discrete values, a classification system
                naturally emerges in which each category is defined by one property value or some
                particular combination of property values. Classification schemes in which all possible categories to which resources can
                    be assigned are defined explicitly are enumerative. For example, the enumerative
                    classification for a personal collection of music recorded on
                    physical media might have categories for
                    CDs, DVDs, vinyl
                    albums, 8-track cartridges,
                    reel-to-reel tape and tape cassettes;
                every music resource fits into one and only one of these categories.
When
                    multiple resource properties are considered in a fixed sequence, each property
                    creates another level in the system of categories and the classification scheme
                    is hierarchical or taxonomic. (See §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion".)
For information resources, their aboutness is usually more important
                    than their physical properties. For example, a
                    professor
planning a new course might organize candidate articles for the syllabus in a fixed set of
                categories, one for each potential lecture topic. But it is more challenging to
                    enumerate all the subjects or topics that a
                larger collection of resources might be about. The Library of Congress Classification (LCC) is a hierarchical and enumerative scheme with a very detailed set of
                subject categories because books can be about almost anything. We discuss the
                    LCC more in §7.3, "Bibliographic Classification".
In addition to or instead of their aboutness, information resources are
                sometimes organized using intrinsic properties like author names or creation dates.
                Our professor might primarily organize his collection of articles by author name,
                and when he plans a new course, he might put those he selects for the syllabus into
                a classification system with one category for every scheduled lecture.
Because names and dates can take on a great many values, an organizing
                    principle like alphabetical
or chronological
ordering is unlikely to enumerate in advance an explicit category for
                    each possible value. Instead, we can consider these organizing principles as
                    creating an implicit or latent classification system in
                    which the categories are generated only as needed. For example, the Q category
                    only exists in an alphabetical scheme if there is a resource whose name starts
                    with Q.
Many resource domains
                    have multiple properties that might be used to define a classification
                    scheme. For example, wine can be classified by
                type of grape (varietal), color, flavor, price, winemaker,
                region of origin (appellation), blending style, and other properties. Furthermore,
                people differ in their knowledge or preferences about these properties; some people
                choose wine based on its price and varietal, while others studiously compare
                winemakers and appellations. Each order of considering the properties creates a
                different hierarchical classification, and using all of them would create a very
                deep and unwieldy system. Moreover, many different hierarchies might be required to
                satisfy divergent preferences. An alternative classification scheme for domains like
                these is faceted classification, a type of
                classification system that takes a set of resource properties and then generates only those categories for combinations that
                actually occur.
The most common types of facets are enumerative
                (mutually exclusive); Boolean (yes or no); hierarchical or taxonomic (logical
                containment); and spectrum (a range of numerical values). We discuss faceted classification in
                detail in §7.4, "Faceted Classification" because it is very frequently used in online
                classifications. Faceted schemes enable easier search and browsing of large resource
                collections like those for retail sites and museums than hierarchical enumerative
                schemes. 


7.1.5. Classification and Standardization
Classifications impose order on
                    resources. Standards do the same by making distinctions, either
                implicitly or explicitly, between "standard" and
                    "nonstandard" ways of creating, organizing, and using resources.
                Classification and standardization are not identical, but they are closely related.
                Some classifications become standards, and some standards define new
                classifications.
Institutional categories (§6.2.3) are of two broad types.
7.1.5.1. Institutional Taxonomies
Institutional
                                taxonomies are classifications designed to
                        make it more likely that people or computational agents will organize and
                        interact with resources in the same way. Among the thousands of standards
                        published by the International Organization for
                                        Standardization (ISO) are many institutional taxonomies that
                        govern the classification of resources and products in agriculture,
                        aviation, construction, energy, healthcare, information technology,
                        transportation, and almost every other industry sector.
Institutional taxonomies are
                        especially important in libraries and knowledge management. 
                    The Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC) and 
                    Library of Congress Classification (LCC) enable different libraries to arrange books in the same
                    categories, and the 
                    Diagnostic and Statistical
                                    Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) 
                    in clinical psychology enables different doctors
                    to assign patients to the same diagnostic and insurance categories.

7.1.5.2. Institutional Semantics
Systems of institutional
                                semantics offer precisely defined
                        abstractions or information
                            components (§3.3.3, "Identity and Information Components") needed to
                        ensure that information can be efficiently exchanged and used.
                    Organizing systems that use different information models often cannot share and
                    combine information without tedious negotiation and excessive rework.


Automating transactions with
                        suppliers and customers in a supply chain requires that all the parties use
                        the same data format or formats that can be transformed to be
                        interoperable. Retrofitting or replacing these applications to
                    enable efficient interoperability is often possible, and it is usually desirable
                    for the firm to develop or adopt enterprise standards for information exchange
                    models rather than pay the recurring transaction costs to integrate or transform
                    incompatible formats.
Standard semantics are
                        especially important in industries or markets that have significant network
                        effects where the value of a product depends on the number of interoperable
                        or compatible products—these include much of the
                        information and service economies.

7.1.5.3. Specifications vs. Standards
Implementing an organizing system of
                        significant scope and complexity in a robust and maintainable fashion
                        requires precise descriptions of the resources it contains, their formats,
                        the classes, relations, structures and collections in which they
                        participate, and the processes that ensure their efficient and effective
                        use. Rigorous descriptions like these are often called
                        "specifications" and there are well-established practices for
                    developing good ones.
There is a subtle but critical distinction
                    between "specifications" and "standards." Any person, firm, or ad
                        hoc group of people or firms can create a specification and
                    then use it or attempt to get others to use it. In contrast, a standard is a published specification that is
                    developed and maintained by consensus of all the relevant stakeholders in some
                    domain by following a defined and transparent process, usually under the
                    auspices of a recognized standards organization. In addition, implementations of standards often are subject to
                    conformance tests that establish the completeness and accuracy of the
                    implementation. This means that users can decide either to implement the
                    specification themselves or choose from other conforming implementations.
The additional rigor and transparency when specifications are
                    developed and maintained through a standards process often makes them fairer and
                    gives them more legitimacy. Governments often require or recommend these
                        de jure standards,
                    especially those that are "open" or "royalty free"
                    because they are typically supported by multiple vendors, minimizing the cost of
                    adoption and maximizing their longevity. 
Despite these important distinctions between
                        "specifications" and "standards," however, in
                    conventional usage "standard" is often simply a synonym for
                        "dominant or widely-adopted specification." These
                        de facto standards, in
                    contrast with the de jure
                    standards created by standards organizations, are typically created by the
                    dominant firm or firms in an industry, by a new firm that is first to use a new
                    technology or innovative method, or by a non-profit entity like a foundation
                    that focuses on a particular domain.
De
                        facto standards and ad
                        hoc standards often co-exist and compete in "standards
                        wars," especially in information-intensive domains and industries
                    with rapid innovation. Standards "wars" tend to occur when
                    different firms or groups of firms develop two or more standards that tend to
                    address the same needs. Not surprisingly, the competing standards are often
                    incompatible on purpose. At first this lets each standard attract customers with
                    features not enabled by the other, but it ends up locking them in by imposing
                    switching costs. Current examples include Google vs. Apple on mobile phones and
                    Kindle versus Apple on ebook readers. 
For example, the Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC) is the world's most widely used library classification
                        system, and most people treat it as a standard. In fact, the
                            DDC is proprietary and it is maintained and licensed
                        for use by the Online Computer Library
                                Center (OCLC). Similarly, the DSM is maintained and
                        published by the American Psychiatric
                                    Association (APA) and it earns the APA many
                        millions of dollars a year.
In contrast, de jure
                    standards include the Library of Congress Classification (LCC), developed under the auspices of the US government, the familiar
                        MARC record format used in online library catalogs (ISO 2709), 
                    and its American counterpart ANSI Z39.2.
As a result, even though it would be technically correct to
                    argue that "while all standards are specifications, not all specifications
                        are standards," this distinction is hard to maintain in
                    practice.

7.1.5.4. Mandated Classifications
Standards are often imposed by
                        governments to protect the interests of their citizens by coordinating or
                        facilitating activities that might otherwise not be possible or
                        safe. Some of them primarily concern public or product safety and
                    are only tangentially relevant to systems for organizing information. Others are
                    highly relevant, especially those that specify the formats and content of
                    information exchange; many European governments require firms doing business
                    with the government to adopt UBL.
Other government standards that are important in organizing
                    systems are those that express requirements for classification and retention of
                    auditing information for financial activities, such as the
                        Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or for non-retention of personal
                    information, such as HIPAA and
                        FERPA.














7.2. Understanding Classification
Classifications arrange resources to support
                discovery, selection, combination, integration, analysis, and other purposeful
                activity in every organizing system. A classification of diseases
            facilitates diagnosis and development of medical procedures, as well as accounting and
            billing. In addition, classifications facilitate understanding of a domain by
            highlighting the important resources and relationships in it, supporting the training of
            people who work in the domain and their acquisition of specialized skills for it.
In the discipline of organizing
                we consider classification to be systematic when it follows principles that govern
                the structure of categories and their relationships. However, being
            systematic and principled does not necessarily ensure that a classification will be
            unbiased or satisfy all users' requirements. For example, the zoning, environmental,
            economic development, and political district classifications that overlay different
            parts of a city determine the present and future allocation of services and resources,
            and over time influence whether the city thrives or decays. These classifications
            reflect tradeoffs and negotiations among numerous participants, including businesses,
            lobbyists, incumbent politicians, donors to political parties, real estate developers,
            and others with strong self-interests.
7.2.1. Classification Is Purposeful
Categories often arise naturally, but by definition
                classifications do not because they are systems of categories that have been
                intentionally designed for some purpose. Every
                    classification brings together resources that go together, and in doing so
                    differentiates among them. However, bringing resources together would
                be pointless without reasons for finding, accessing, and interacting with them
                later.
7.2.1.1. Classifications Are Reference Models
A classification creates a semantic
                        or conceptual roadmap to a domain by highlighting the properties and
                        relationships that distinguish the resources in it. This reference model
                        facilitates learning, comprehension, and use of organizing systems within
                        the domain. Standard classifications like those used in libraries
                    enable people to rely on one system that they can use to locate resources in
                    many libraries. Standard business, job, and product classifications enable the
                    reliable collection, analysis, and interchange of economic data and
                        resources.

7.2.1.2. Classifications Support Interactions
A classification creates structure in
                        the organizing system that increases the variety and capability of the
                        interactions it can support. With physical resources,
                    classification increases useful co-location; in kitchens, for example, keeping
                    resources that are used together near each other (e.g., baking ingredients) makes
                    cooking and cleanup more efficient (see "activity-based"
                    classification in §7.5).
Classification makes
                        systems more usable when it is manifested in the arrangement of resource
                        descriptions or controls in user interface components like list boxes, tabs,
                        buttons, function menus, and structured lists of search
                        results.
A typical mapping between the logic of a classification scheme
                    and a user interface is illustrated in Figure 7.1, "Classification and Interactions."
Figure 7.1. Classification and Interactions.
Good user interface
                                    design creates a clear mapping between the logic of a
                                    classification scheme and the selection methods and arrangements
                                    presented to users. Categories that are mutually exclusive imply
                                    different tabs or other visualizations that imply a single
                                    selection, for example.

Classification In A Novel User Interface


The meat from animals
                                        used as food is classified into numerous "cuts"
                                        based on its origin. In the US, these classifications are
                                        standardized by the Department of Agriculture to ensure that
                                        meat is labeled correctly so that customers are assured of
                                        getting the cut of meat they want. The easiest and most
                                        natural way to communicate the classification system is to
                                        label the parts of the animal in a diagram, because this
                                        closely binds each logical category to the "user
                                            interface."
(Photo by R. Glushko.
                                        Taken in 2011 at the Union Square Greenmarket in New York
                                        City.)





7.2.2. Classification Is Principled
§6.3, "Principles for Creating Categories" explained principles for creating
                categories, including enumeration, single properties, multiple properties and
                hierarchy, family resemblance, similarity, theory and goal-based categorization.
                    It logically follows that the principles
                    considered in designing categories are embodied in classifications that use
                    those categories. However, when we say, "classification is
                    principled," we are going further to say that the processes of assigning
                resources to categories and maintaining the classification scheme over time must
                also follow principles.
The design and use of a classification
                    system involves many choices about its purposes, scope, scale, intended
                    lifetime, extensibility, and other considerations. Principled classification
                    means that once those design choices are made they should be systematically and
                    consistently followed.
 Principled does not necessarily equate to "good," because
                many of the choices can be arbitrary and others may involve tradeoffs that depend on
                the nature of the resources, the purposes of the classification, the amount of
                effort available, and the capabilities of the people doing the classification and of
                the people using it (see §6.4, "Category Design Issues and Implications"). Every classification system is biased in one way or another (see §7.3, "Bibliographic Classification").
Consider the classifications of resources in a
                highly-organized kitchen. Tableware (forks, spoons and cutlery) is usually kept
                together in a single drawer, separated by utensil type with a flatware organizer.
                Dishes are stacked on a cabinet shelf. Pots and pans are nested to save space,
                spices are alphabetized in a spice rack, items used for baking are on the same
                shelf, and coffee is next to the coffee maker. Items used frequently may be in more
                accessible areas—on top in drawers, lower cabinets, and
                    shelves—than items used infrequently, which end up on
                high shelves or pushed to the back of cabinets. This classification system is not
                documented with a written specification and the person who created and uses it did
                not study principles of kitchen classification in school, but when she cleans up the
                kitchen after making a meal, everything goes back where it came from, making it easy
                to find necessary resources the next time she cooks. Other people might have
                different classifications of kitchen resources, and some people might use much
                simpler classification schemes because they do not cook often and do not mind
                rummaging around to find what they need when they do.
On the other hand, complex institutional
                classification systems like those used in libraries or government agencies are
                implemented with detailed specifications, methods, and guidelines. The people who
                apply them probably did study them in school or received extensive on-the-job
                training to ensure they apply them correctly and consistently.
7.2.2.1. Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme
Some of
                        the most important principles that lead us to say that classification is
                        principled are those that guide the design of the classification scheme in
                        the first place. These principles are fundamental in the discipline of
                        library science but they apply more broadly to other
                    domains.
The warrant
                        principle concerns the justification for the choice of categories and the
                        names given to them.
The principle of literary
                                warrant holds that a
                        classification must be based only on the specific resources that are being
                        classified.
In the library context, this ad hoc principle that builds a
                        classification from a particular collection principle is often posed in
                        opposition to a more philosophical or epistemological perspective, first
                        articulated by Francis Bacon in the seventeenth century, that a classification should be
                        universal and must handle all knowledge and all possible
                        resources.
The principle of scientific
                            warrant argues that only the categories
                        recognized by the scientists or experts in a domain should be used in a
                        classification system, and it is often opposed by the principle of
                            use or 
                        user warrant, which
                        chooses categories and descriptive terms according to their frequency of use
                        by everyone, not just experts.
With
                        classifications of physical resources like those in a kitchen, we see
                            object warrant,
                        where similar objects are put together, but more frequently the justifying
                        principle will be one of use warrant, where resources are organized based on
                        how they are used.
Starbucks Coffee Sizes: "Anti-User" Warrant?
The Starbucks coffee chain seemingly goes out of its
                        way to confuse its customers by calling the smallest  (twelve ounces)  of
                        its three coffee sizes the "tall" size, calling its
                        sixteen-ounce size a "grande," and calling its largest a
                                "venti,"
                        which is Italian for twenty (ounces). Outside of
                            Starbucks, something that is "tall" is
                        never also considered "small." Ironically, despite having more
                        than five thousand coffeehouses in over fifty countries, Starbucks has none
                        in Italy where venti would be
                        in the local language.

A second
                        principle embodied in a classification scheme concerns the breadth and depth
                        of the category hierarchy. We discussed this in §6.4, "Category Design Issues and Implications" but in the context of classification this principle
                    has additional implications and is framed as the extent to which the scheme is
                        enumerative (§7.1.3, "Classification vs. Physical Arrangement"). The decision to
                    classify broadly or precisely depends largely on the variety or heterogeneity of
                    the resources that the system of categories has been designed to organize.
                    Because of the diversity of resources for a sale in a department store, a broad
                    classification is necessary to accommodate everything in the store. Kitchen
                    goods will be grouped together in a few aisles on a single floor. But a
                    specialty kitchen store or a wholesale kitchen supply store for restaurants
                    would classify much more precisely because of the restricted resource domain and
                    the greater expertise of those who want to buy things there. An entire section
                    might be dedicated just to knives, organized by knife type, manufacturer,
                    quality of steel, and other categories that are not used in the kitchen section
                    of the department store.
The
                        precision or enumerativeness of a classification scheme increases the
                        similarity of resources that are assigned to the same category and sharpens
                        the distinctions between resources in different categories.
                    However, when different classifications must be combined, mismatches in their
                    precision or granularity can create challenges (see §9.3, "Reorganizing Resources for Interactions").

7.2.2.2. Principles for Assigning Resources to Categories
The
                            uniqueness
                            principle means the categories in a
                        classification scheme are mutually exclusive. Thus, when a logical concept
                        is assigned to a particular category, it cannot simultaneously be assigned
                        to another category. Resources, however, can be assigned to several
                    categories if they embody several concepts represented by those different
                    categories. This can present a challenge when a physical storage solution is
                    based on storing resources according to its assigned category in a logical
                    classification system. This is not a serious problem for resource types like
                    technical equipment or tools, for which the properties used to classify them are
                    highly salient, and that have very narrow and predictable contexts of use. It is
                    also not a problem for highly-specialized information resources like scientific
                    research reports or government economic data, which might end up in only one
                    specialized class. However, many resources are inherently more difficult to
                    classify because they have less salient properties or because they have many
                    more possible uses.
We face this kind of problem all
                    the time. For example, should we store a pair of scissors in the kitchen or in
                    the office? One solution is to buy a second pair of scissors so that scissors
                    can be kept in both locations where they are typically used, but this is not
                    practical for many types of resources and this principle would be difficult to
                    apply in a systematic manner.
Many books are about multiple subjects. A self-help book
                    about coping with change in a business setting might reasonably be classified as
                    either about applied psychology or about business. It is not helpful that book
                    titles are often poor clues to their content; 
                    Who Moved My Cheese? 
                    is in fact a self-help book about coping with
                    change in a business setting. 
                    Its Library of Congress Classification is BF 637, 
                    "Applied Psychology," and at UC Berkeley
                    it is kept in the business school library.
The general solution to
                        satisfying the uniqueness
                            principle in library classifications when resources do not
                        clearly fit in a single category is to invent and follow a detailed set of
                        often arbitrary rules. Usually, the primary subject of the book is
                    used for assigning a category, which will then determine the book's place on a
                    shelf. 

7.2.2.3. Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time
Most personal classifications are
                        created in response to a specific situation to solve an emerging
                        organizational challenge. As a consequence, personal classification
                    systems change in an ad hoc or
                    opportunistic manner during their limited lifetimes. For example, the
                    classification schemes in your kitchen or closet are deconstructed and disappear
                    when you move and take your possessions to a different house or apartment. Your
                    efforts to re-implement the classifications will be influenced by the
                    configuration of shelves and cabinets in your new residence, so they will not be
                    exactly the same. 
In contrast, the institutional classification schemes for many
                    library resources, culturally or scientifically-important artifacts, and much of
                    the information created or collected by businesses, governments and researchers
                    might have useful lives of decades or centuries. Classification systems like
                    these can only be changed incrementally to avoid disruption of the work flows of
                    the organization. We described maintaining resources as an activity in all
                    organizing systems (§2.5, "Maintaining Resources") and the issues of
                    persistence, effectivity, authenticity, and provenance that emerge with
                    resources over time (§3.5, "Resources over Time"). Much of this previous
                    discussion applies in a straightforward manner to maintaining classifications
                    over time.
However, some additional issues arise with
                    classifications over time. The most important one is that the meaning of an
                    underlying category can change, along with its relative and absolute importance
                    with respect to the other categories in the classification system. Categories sometimes change slowly, but they can also
                        change quickly and radically as a result of technological, process, or
                        geopolitical innovation or events. Entirely new types of resources and
                        bodies of knowledge can appear in a short time. Consider what the
                    categories of "travel,"
"entertainment,"
"computing," and "communication" mean today compared
                    to just a decade or two ago.
Changes in the meaning of the categories in a
                        classification threaten its integrity, the principle that categories
                        should not move within the structure of the classification
                        system.
One way to maintain integrity while adapting to the
                        dynamic and changing nature of knowledge is to define a new version of a
                        classification system while allowing earlier ones to persist, which
                        preserves resource assignments in the previous version of the classification
                        system while allowing it to change in the new one. If we adopt a
                    logical perspective on classification (§7.1.2, "Classification vs. Tagging") that
                    dissociates the conceptual assignment of resources to categories from their
                    physical arrangement, there is no reason why a resource cannot have contrasting
                    category assignments in different versions of a classification.
However, the conventional library with collections of physical
                    resources cannot easily abandon its requirement to use a classification to
                    arrange books on shelves in specific places so they can be located, checked out,
                    and returned to the same location. 
A related principle about
                        maintaining classifications over time is flexibility, the degree to which the
                        classification can accommodate new categories. Computer scientists typically
                        describe this principle as extensibility, and library scientists
                        sometimes describe it as hospitality. In any case the
                    concern is the same and we are all familiar with it. 
                     
                    When you buy a bookshelf, clothes wardrobe, file cabinet, or
                    computer, it makes sense to buy one that has some extra space to accommodate the
                    books, clothes, or files you will acquire over some future time frame. As with
                    other choices that need to be made about organizing systems, how much extra
                    space and "organizing room" you will acquire involves numerous
                    tradeoffs.
Classification schemes can increase their
                        flexibility by creating extra "logical space" when they are
                        defined. Library classifications accomplish this by using naming or
                        numbering schemes for classification that can be extended easily to create
                        new subcategories.
Classification schemes in information systems
                        can also anticipate the evolution of document or database
                        schemas.


7.2.3. Classification Is Biased
The discipline of organizing is
                    fundamentally about choices of properties and principles for describing and
                    arranging resources. We discussed choices about describing resources in
                    §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources", choices for creating resource categories in §6.3, "Principles for Creating Categories", and choices for creating classifications in this
                chapter. The choices made reflect the purposes, experiences, professions, politics,
                values, and other characteristics and preferences of the people making them. As a
                result, every system of classification is biased because it takes a point of view
                that is a composite of all of these influences.
This claim might seem surprising, because many classification
                systems are formal and institutional, created by governments or firms participating
                in standards organizations. We expect these classifications to be impartial and
                objective.
Consider the classification of people as "employed"
                or "unemployed." Many people think that any employable person who is
                not currently employed would be counted as unemployed. But the US government's
                    Department of Labor only counts someone as unemployed if they
                have actively looked for work in the past month, effectively removing anyone who has
                given up on finding work from the unemployed category by assigning them to a
                    "discouraged worker" category. In 2012 this classification scheme
                allowed the government to report that unemployment was about 8% and falling, when in
                fact it was closer to 20% and rising. The political implications of this
                classification are substantial.
Bowker and Star have written extensively about biases in
                classification systems but acknowledge that many people do not see them:
Information scientists work every day on the design,
                    delegation and choice of classification systems and standards, yet few see them
                    as artifacts embodying moral and aesthetic choices that in turn craft people's
                    identities, aspirations and dignity.--(Bowker and Star 2000)
Bowker and Star describe many examples where seemingly neutral and
                benign classifications implement controversial assumptions. A striking example is
                found in the ethnic classifications of the United States Census and the categories
                to which US residents are required to assign themselves. These categories have
                changed nearly every decade since the first census in 1790 and strongly reflect
                political goals, prevailing cultural sensitivities or lack thereof, and
                non-scientific considerations. Some recent changes included a
                    "multi-racial" category, which some people viewed as empowering,
                but which was attacked by African-American and Hispanic civil rights groups as
                diluting their power.
A more positive way to think about bias in
                classification is that the choices made in an organizing system about resource
                selection, description, and arrangement come together to convey the values of the
                organizers. This makes a classification a rhetorical or communicative vehicle for
                establishing credibility and trust with those who interact with the resources in the
                classification. Seen in this light, an objective or neutral classification is not
                just hard to achieve, but also somewhat undesirable because it gives up the
                opportunity to interpret the resources in some creative way. Melanie Feinberg makes
                the point that "fair trade" or "green" supermarkets
                differentiate themselves by a relatively small proportion of the goods they offer
                compared with ordinary stores, but these particular items signal the values that
                their customers care most about.
Bias is clearly evident in the
                    most widely used bibliographic classifications, the Library of Congress and the
                    Dewey Decimal, which we discuss in the next section.












7.3. Bibliographic Classification
Much of our thinking
                    about classification comes from the bibliographic domain. Libraries and
                the classification systems for the resources they contain have been evolving for
                millennia. We will briefly describe the most important systems for bibliographic
            classification, especially the Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC) and Library of Congress Classification (LCC) systems. However, there are several important ways in
            which bibliographic classification is distinctive and we will discuss those
            first:
Scale, Complexity, and Degree of Standardization:
Department stores and supermarkets typically offer tens of
                        thousands of different items (as measured by the number of "stock
                            keeping units" or SKUs), and popular online
                        commerce sites like Amazon.com and
                            eBay are of similar scale. However, the
                        standard product classification system for supermarkets has only about 300
                            categories. The classifications for online stores are typically deeper than
                        those for physical stores, but they are highly idiosyncratic and
                        non-standard. In contrast, scores of university libraries have five million
                        or more distinct items in their collections, and they almost all use the
                        same standard bibliographic classification system that has about 300,000
                        distinct categories.
Legacy of Physical Arrangement, User Access, and Re-Shelving:
A corollary to the previous one that
                        distinguishes bibliographic classification systems is that they have long
                        been shaped and continue to be shaped by the legacy of physical arrangement,
                        user access to the storage locations, and re-shelving that they support.
                        These requirements constrain the evolution and extensibility of
                        bibliographic classifications, making them less able to keep pace with
                        changing concepts and new bodies of knowledge. Amazon classifies the
                        products it sells in huge warehouses, but its customers do not have to pick
                        out their purchases there, and most goods never return to the warehouse.
                            Amazon can add new product categories and manage the
                        resources in warehouses far more easily than libraries can.
With digital libraries, constraints of scale and physical
                        arrangement are substantially eliminated, because the storage location is
                        hidden from the user and the resources do not need to be returned and
                        re-shelved. However, when users can search the entire content of the
                        library, as they have learned to expect from the web, they are less likely
                        to use the bibliographic classification systems that have painstakingly been
                        applied to the library's resources.

7.3.1. The Dewey Decimal Classification
The Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC) is the world's most widely used bibliographic system, applied to
                books in over 200,000 libraries in 135 countries. It is a proprietary and
                    de facto standard, and it must
                be licensed for use from the Online Computer Library Center (OCLC).

In 1876, Melvil Dewey invented the DDC when he was hired to
                manage the Amherst College library immediately after graduating.
                Dewey was inspired by Bacon's attempt to create a universal classification for all
                knowledge and considered the DDC as a numerical overlay on Bacon
                with 10 main classes, each divided into 10 more, and so on. Despite his explicit
                rejection of literary warrant, however, Dewey's classification was strongly
                influenced by the existing Amherst collection, which reflected Amherst's focus on
                the time on the "education of indigent young men of piety and talents for the
                    Christian ministry."
The resulting nineteenth century Western bias in the DDC's classification of religion seems almost startling
                today, where it persists in the 23rd revision (see Figure 7.2, ""Religion" in Dewey Decimal Classification."). "Religion" is one of the 10 main
                classes, the 200 class, with nine subclasses, Six of these nine subclasses are
                topics with "Christian" in the name; one class is for the Bible alone; and another section is entitled
                    "Natural theology." Everything else related to the world's many
                religions is lumped under 290, "Other religions."
Figure 7.2. "Religion" in Dewey Decimal Classification.


200 Religion
  210 Natural Theology
  220 Bible
  230 Christian theology
  240 Christian moral and devotional theology
  250 Christian orders and local church
  260 Christian social theology
  270 Christian church history
  280 Christian sects and denominations
  290 Other religions 


The notational simplicity of a decimal system makes the
                    DDC easy to use and easy to subdivide existing categories,
                So-called subdivision tables allow facets for language, geography or format to be
                added to many classes, making the classification more specific. But the overall
                system is not very hospitable to new areas of knowledge.

7.3.2. The Library of Congress Classification
The US Library of
                        Congress is the largest library in the world today, but it got off
                    to a bad start after being established in 1800. In 1814, during the War of 1812,
                    British troops burned down the US Capitol building where the library was located
                    and the 3000 books in the collection went up in flames.
The library was restarted a year later when Congress purchased the
                personal library of former president Thomas Jefferson, which was over twice the size of the collection that the British
                burned. Jefferson was a deeply intellectual person, and unlike the narrow historical
                and legal collection of the original library, Jefferson's library reflected his
                    "comprehensive interests in philosophy, history, geography, science, and
                    literature, as well as political and legal treatises."
Restarting the Library of Congress around Jefferson's
                personal collection and classification had an interesting implication. When Herbert Putnam formally created the 
                    Library of Congress Classification 
                    (LCC) in 1897, he meant it not as a way to
                    organize all the world's knowledge, but to provide a practical way to organize
                    and later locate items within the Library of Congress's
                    collection. However, despite Putnam's commitment to literary warrant,
                the breadth of Jefferson's collection made the LCC more
                intellectually ambitious than it might otherwise had been, and probably contributed
                to its dominant adoption in university libraries.
The LCC has 21 top-level categories, identified
                by letters instead of using numbers like the DDC (see Figure 7.3, "Top Level Categories in the Library of Congress Classification."). Each top-level category is divided into about
                10-20 subclasses, each of which is further subdivided. The complete
                    LCC and supporting information takes up 41 printed
                volumes.
Figure 7.3. Top Level Categories in the Library of Congress Classification.


A -- GENERAL WORKS
B -- PHILOSOPHY. PSYCHOLOGY. RELIGION
C -- AUXILLARY SCIENCES OF HISTORY (GENERAL)
D -- WORLD HISTORY (EXCEPT AMERICAN HISTORY)
E -- HISTORY: AMERICA
F -- HISTORY: AMERICA
G -- GEOGRAPHY. ANTHROPOLOGY. RECREATION
H -- SOCIAL SCIENCE
J -- POLITICAL SCIENCE
K -- LAW
L -- EDUCATION
M -- MUSIC
N -- FINE ARTS
P -- LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE
Q -- SCIENCE
R -- MEDICINE
S -- AGRICULTURE
T -- TECHNOLOGY
U -- MILITARY SCIENCE
V -- NAVAL SCIENCE
Z -- BIBLIOGRAPHY. LIBRARY SCIENCE



Bias is apparent in the LCC as it
                is in the DDC, but is somewhat more subtle. A library for the US
                emphasizes its own history. "Naval science" was vastly more important
                in the 1800s when it was given its own top level category, separated from other
                resources about "Military science" (which had a subclass for
                    "Cavalry").
The
                        LCC is highly enumerative, and along with the uniqueness
                    principle, this creates distortions over time and sometimes requires contortions
                    to incorporate new disciplines. For example, it might seem odd today
                that a discipline as broad and important as computer science does not have its own
                second level category under the Q category of science, but because computer science
                was first taught in math departments, the LCC has it as the
                    QA76 subclass of mathematics, which is QA.
                    

7.3.3. The BISAC Classification
A very different approach to bibliographic
                classification is represented in the Book Industry Standards Advisory Committee
                            classification (BISAC). BISAC is
                developed by the Book Industry Study Group (BISG), a non-profit industry association that
                    "develops, maintains, and promotes standards and best practices that
                    enable the book industry to conduct business more efficiently." The
                    BISAC classification system is used by many of the major
                businesses within the North American book industry, including
                    Amazon, Baker & Taylor,
                    Barnes & Noble, Bookscan,
                    Booksense, Bowker,
                    Indigo, Ingram and most major
                    publishers.
The BISAC
                    classifications are used by publishers to suggest to booksellers how a book
                    should be classified in physical and online bookstores. Because of its
                    commercial and consumer focus, BISAC follows a principle of use
                    warrant, and its categories are biased toward common language usage and popular
                    culture.
Some top-level BISAC
                    categories, including Law, Medicine, Music, and Philosophy, are also top-level
                    categories in the LCC. However, BISAC also has
                    top-level categories for Comics & Graphic Novels. Cooking, Juvenile Fiction,
                    Pets, and True Crime.
The differences between BISAC
                and the LCC are understandable because they are used for completely
                different purposes and generally have little need to come into contact. 
                
                But this changed in 2004, when Google began its
                ambitious project to digitize the majority of the world's books (See the sidebar,
                    What Is a Library? in §1.3.1.2). Much to the dismay of many people in the library and
                academic community, Google initially classified books using
                    BISAC rather than the LCC.
In addition, some new public libraries have adopted
                    BISAC rather than the DDC because they feel
                the former makes the library friendlier to its users. Some librarians believe that
                their online catalogs need to be more like web search engines, so a less precise
                classification that uses more familiar category terms seems like a good
                    choice.












7.4. Faceted Classification
We have noted several times that strictly enumerative classifications
            constrain how resources are assigned to categories and how the classification can evolve
            over time. Faceted
                classifications are an alternative that overcome some of these
            limitations. In a faceted
                        classification system, each resource is described
                using properties from multiple facets, but an agent searching for resources does not
                need to consider all of the properties (and consequently the facets) and does not
                need to consider them in a fixed order, which an enumerative hierarchical
                classification requires.
 Faceted classifications are especially useful in web user interfaces
            for online shopping or for browsing a large and heterogeneous museum collection. The
            process of considering facets in any order and ignoring those that are not relevant
            implies a dynamic organizational structure that makes selection both flexible and
            efficient. We can best illustrate these advantages with a shopping example in a domain
            that we are familiar with from §6.3.3, "Multiple Properties".
If a department store offers shirts in various styles, colors, sizes,
            brands, and prices, shoppers might want to search and sort through them using properties
            from these facets in any order. However, in a physical store, this is not possible
            because the shirts must be arranged in actual locations in the store, with dress shirts
            in one area, work shirts in another, and so on.
Assume that the shirt store has shirts in four styles: dress shirts,
            work shirts, party shirts, and athletic shirts. The dress shirts come in white and blue,
            the work shirts in white and brown, and the party and athletic shirts come in white,
            blue, brown, and red. White dress shirts come in large and medium sizes.
Suppose we are looking for a white dress shirt in a large size. We can
            think of this desired shirt in two equivalent ways, either as a member of a category of
                "large white dress shirts" or a shirt with "dress,"
"white," and "large" values on style, color, and size facets.
            Because of the way the shirts are arranged in the physical store, our search process has
            to follow a hierarchical structure of categories. We go to the dress shirt section, find
            the white shirts, and then look within the white shirts for a large one. This process
            corresponds to the hierarchy shown in Figure 7.4, "Enumerative Classification with Style Facet Followed by Color Facet."
Figure 7.4. Enumerative Classification with Style Facet Followed by Color Facet.

In an enumerative classification
                            system the order of the facets determines the classification hierarchy.
                            For example, a store might classify shirts first using a style facet,
                            next with a color facet, and finally with a size facet. This ordering
                            could result in two piles of dress shirts, one blue and one white, in
                            which each pile contains shirts of large and medium
                        sizes.


Although unlikely, a store might choose to organize its shirts by
            color. In our search for a "white dress shirt in a large size," if we
            consider the color first, because shirts come in four colors, there are four color
            categories to choose from. When we choose the white shirts, there is no category for
            work shirts because there are no work shirts that come in white. We then choose the
            dress shirts, and then finally find the large one. (Figure 7.5, "Enumerative Classification with Color Facet Followed by Style Facet.")
This department store example shows that for a physical organization,
            one property facet guides the localization of resources; all other facets are
            subordinated under the primary organizing property. In hierarchical enumerative
            classifications, this means that the primary organizing facet determines the primary
            form of access. The shirts are either organized by style and then color, or by color
            then style, which enforces an inflexible query strategy (either first by style or first
            by color).
Figure 7.5. Enumerative Classification with Color Facet Followed by Style Facet.

An alternative ordering of the same
                            shirt facets changes the classification hierarchy. If the first facet
                            considered is color, style is next, and finally size, this ordering
                            could result in two piles of white shirts, one for dress shirts and one
                            for athletic shirts, in which each pile contains shirts of large and
                            medium sizes.


We can enumerate all the properties needed to assign resources
            appropriately, but we create the categories (i.e., combination of properties from
            different facets) only if they are needed to sort resources with a particular
            combination of properties.
An additional aspect of the flexibility of
                faceted classification is that a facet can be left out of a resource description if
                it is not needed or appropriate. For example, because party shirts are
            often multi-colored with exotic patterns, it is not that useful to describe their color.
            Likewise, certain types of athletic shirts might be very loose-fitting, and as a result
            not be given a size description, but their color is important because it is tied to a
            particular team. Figure 7.6, "Faceted Classification." shows how these two resource
            types can be classified with the faceted Shirt classification. Resource 1 describes a
            party shirt in medium; resource 2 describes an athletic shirt in blue without
            information about size.
Figure 7.6. Faceted Classification.

In a pure faceted classification,
                            not every facet needs to apply to every resource, and there is no
                            requirement for a predetermined order in which the facets are
                            considered.


A faceted classification scheme like that shown in Figure 7.6, "Faceted Classification." eliminates the requirement for predetermining a
            combination and ordering of facets like those in Figure 7.4, "Enumerative Classification with Style Facet Followed by Color Facet."
            and Figure 7.5, "Enumerative Classification with Color Facet Followed by Style Facet." Instead, imagine a shirt store where you
            decide when you begin shopping which facets are important to you ("show me all the
                medium party shirts,"
"show me the blue athletic shirts") instead of having to adhere to whatever
            predetermined (pre-combined) enumerative classification the store invented. In a digital
            organizing system, faceted classification enables highly flexible access because
            prioritizing different facets can dynamically reorganize how the collection is
            presented.
7.4.1. Foundations for Faceted Classification
In library and information science texts
                    it is common to credit the idea of faceted classification to S.R. Ranganathan, a Hindu mathematician working as a librarian. Ranganathan had an
                    almost mystical motivation to classify everything in the universe with a single
                    classification system and notation, considering it his dharma (the closest
                    translation in English would be "fundamental duty" or
                        "destiny"). Facing the limitations of Dewey's system,
                where an item's essence had to first be identified and then the item assigned to a
                category based on that essence, Ranganathan believed that all bibliographic
                resources could be organized around a more abstract variety of aspects.
In 1933 Ranganathan proposed that a set of five and only five
                facets applied to all knowledge:PersonalityThe type of
                                thing.MatterThe constituent material of the
                                    thing.EnergyThe action or activity of the
                                    thing.SpaceWhere the thing occurs.TimeWhen the thing occurs.This classification system is known as colon classification (or
                    PMEST) because the notation used for resource identifiers uses
                a colon to separate the values on each facet. These values come from tables of
                categories and subcategories, making the call number very compact. Colon
                classification is most commonly used in libraries in India.
            
Ranganathan deserves credit for implementing the first faceted
                classification system, but people other than librarians generally credit the idea to Nicolas de Condorcet, a French mathematician and philosopher. About 140 years before
                Ranganathan, Condorcet was concerned that "systems of classification that
                    imposed a given interpretation upon Nature... represented an insufferable
                    obstacle to... scientific advance." Condorcet thus proposed a flexible
                classification scheme for "arranging a large number of subjects in a system so
                    that we may straightway grasp their relations, quickly perceive their
                    combinations, and readily form new combinations."
Today faceted classification is most commonly used in narrow
                domains, each with its own specific facets. This makes intuitive sense because even
                if resources can be distinguished with a general classification, doing so requires
                lengthy notations, and it is much harder to add to a general classification than to
                a classification created specifically for a single subject area. We could probably
                figure out a way to describe shirts using the PMEST facets, but
                style, color, and size seem more natural.

7.4.2. Faceted Classification in Description
Elaine Svenonius defines facets as "groupings of terms obtained by the first
                        division of a subject discipline into homogeneous or semantically cohesive
                        categories." The relationships between these facets results in a controlled
                vocabulary (§3.1.2) governing the
                resources we are organizing. From this controlled vocabulary we can generate many
                structured descriptions that are complex but formally structured and enable us to
                describe things for which terms do not yet exist.

Getty's Art & Architecture Thesaurus (AAT) is a robust and widely used controlled vocabulary
                consisting of generic terms used to describe artifacts, objects, places and concepts
                in the domains of "art, architecture, and material culture."
AAT is a thesaurus with a faceted hierarchical
                structure. The AAT's facets are "conceptually organized in a
                    scheme that proceeds from abstract concepts to concrete, physical
                    artifacts:"
Associated
                            ConceptsConcepts, philosophical
                                    and critical theory, and phenomena, such as "love"
                                    and "nihilism."Physical
                            AttributesMaterial characteristics
                                    that can be measured and perceived, like "height"
                                    and "flexibility."Styles and
                            PeriodsArtistic and architectural
                                    eras and stylistic groupings, such as "Renaissance"
                                    and "Dada."AgentsBasically, people and the various
                                    groups and organizations with which they identify, whether based
                                    on physical, mental, socio-economic, or political
                                        characteristics—e.g.,
                                        "stonemasons" or
                                    "socialists."ActivitiesActions, processes, and
                                    occurrences, such as "body painting" and
                                        "drawing." These are different from the
                                        "Objects" facet, which may also contain
                                        "body painting" but there in terms of the
                                    actual work itself, not the process of creation.MaterialsConcerned with the actual substance
                                    of which a work is made, like "metal" or
                                        "bleach."
"Materials" differ from "Physical
                                        Attributes" in that the latter is more abstract than
                                    the former.ObjectsThe largest facet, objects contains the
                                    actual works, like "sandcastles" and "screen
                                        prints."Within each facet is a strict hierarchical structure drilling down from
                broad term to very specific instance. 
Figure 7.7. "Patent Leather" in the Art & Architecture
                    Thesaurus.

The Art and Architecture
                                Thesaurus has a faceted hierarchical structure. For example, the
                                materials facet distinguishes the material of "patent
                                    leather" according to the process applied to processed
                                animal material, which is a type of biological material, and so
                                on.





We can see from this example how a particular instance may be
                described on a number of dimensions for the purpose of organizing the item and
                retrieving information about it. And by using a standard controlled vocabulary,
                catalogers and indexers make it easier for users to understand and adapt to the way
                things are organized for the purpose of finding them.

7.4.3. A Classification for Facets
There are four major types of facets.Enumerative
                            facetsHave mutually exclusive possible
                                    values. In our online shirt store, "Style"
                                is an enumerative facet whose values are "dress,"
"work,"
"party," and "athletic."Boolean
                            facetsTake on one of two values, yes (true) or no (false) along some
                                    dimension or property. On a sportswear website,
                                    "Waterproof" would be a Boolean facet because an
                                item of clothing is either waterproof or it is not.Hierarchical
                            facetsOrganize resources by logical
                                    inclusion (§5.3.1.1). At Williams-Sonoma's website,
                                the top-level facet includes "Cookware,"
"Cooks' Tools," and "Cutlery." At
                                    wine.com the "Region"
                                facet has values for "US,"
"Old World," and "New World," each of
                                which is further divided geographically. 
                                Also see
                                taxonomic
                                    facets.Spectrum facetsAssume a range of numerical values with a defined minimum and
                                    maximum. Price and date are common spectrum facets. The ranges
                                    are often modeled as mutually exclusive regions (potential price
                                    facet values might include "$0 - $49,"
"$50 - $99," and "$100 -
                                    $149").

7.4.4. Designing a Faceted Classification System
It is important to be
                    systematic and principled when designing a faceted classification. In
                some respects the process and design concerns overlap with those for describing
                resources, and much of the advice in §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources" is relevant
                    here.
7.4.4.1. Design Process for Faceted Classification
We advocate a five step process for designing a faceted
                    classification system.

Define the purposes of the
                            classification (§4.3.2, "Determining the Purposes", §7.2.1, "Classification Is Purposeful") and specify the collection of concepts or
                            resources to be classified.

For each facet, determine its
                            logical type (§7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets") and possible values.
                            Specify the order of the values for each facet so that they make sense
                            to users; useful orderings are alphabetical, chronological, procedural,
                            size, most popular to least popular, simple to complex, and geographical
                            or topological.

Analyze and describe a
                            representative sample of resource instances to identify properties or
                            dimensions as candidate facets (See §4.3.3, "Identifying Properties").

Examine the relationships between
                            the facets to create sub-facets if necessary. Determine how the facets
                            will be combined to generate the classifications.

Test the classification on new
                            instances, and revise the facets, facet values, and facet grammar as
                            needed.


7.4.4.2. Design Principles and Pragmatics
Here is some more specific advice about selecting and
                    designing facets and facet values:OrthogonalityFacets should be independent
                                        dimensions, so a resource can have values of all of them
                                        while only having one value on each of them. In an
                                    online kitchen store, one facet might be "Product"
                                    and another might be "Brand." A particular item
                                    might be classified as a "Saucepan" in the
                                        "Product" facet and as
                                            "Calphalon" in the
                                        "Brand" one. Other saucepans might have other
                                    brands, and other Calphalon products might not be saucepans,
                                    because Product and Brand are orthogonal.Semantic BalanceTop-level facets should be the
                                        properties that best differentiate the resources in the
                                        classification domain. The values should be of equal
                                        semantic scope so that resources are distributed among the
                                        subcategories. Subfacets of "Cookware" like
                                            "Sauciers and Saucepans" and
                                            "Roasters and Brasiers" are semantically
                                        balanced as they are both named and grouped by cooking
                                        activity.CoverageThe values of a facet should be able
                                        of classifying all instances within the intended
                                        scope.ScalabilityFacet values must accommodate
                                        potential additions to the set of instances. Including an
                                            "Other" value is an easy way to ensure that
                                        a facet is flexible and hospitable to new instances, but it
                                        not desirable if all new instances will be assigned that
                                        value.ObjectivityAlthough every classification has
                                        an explicit or implicit bias (§7.2.3, "Classification Is Biased"), facets and facet values should be as unambiguous and
                                        concrete as possible to enable reliable classification of
                                        instances.NormativityTo make a faceted classification as
                                        useful by as many people as possible, the terms used for
                                        facets and facet values should not be idiosyncratic,
                                        metaphorical, or require special knowledge to
                                        interpret.
As we will see in §7.6, "Computational Classification", classification can sometimes be done
                    by computers rather than by people. Computer algorithms
                        can analyze resource properties and descriptions to identify dimensions on
                        which resources differ and the most frequent descriptive terms, which can
                        then be used to design a faceted classification scheme. Resources can then
                        be assigned to the appropriate categories, either without human intervention
                        or in collaboration with a human who trains the algorithm with classified
                        instances.













7.5. Classification by Activity Structure
Institutional classification systems are
                often strongly hierarchical and taxonomic because their many users come to them for
                diverse purposes, making a context-free or semantic organization the most
                appropriate. However, in narrow domains that offer a more limited variety of uses it
                can be much more effective to classify resources according to the tasks or
                activities they support.
 A task or activity-based classification system is called a 
            taskonomy, a term invented by anthropologists Janet
            Dougherty and Charles Keller after their ethnographic study of how blacksmiths organized
            their tools. Instead of keeping things together according to their semantic
            relationships in what Donald Norman called "hardware store organization,"
            the blacksmiths arranged tools in locations where they were used—
"fire tools,"
"stump tools,"
"drill press rack tools," and so on.
Personal organizing systems are often
                taskonomic. Think about the way you cook when you are following a recipe.
                Do you first retrieve all the ingredients from their
                storage places, and arrange them in activity-based groups in the preparation
                area?
Looking at the relationship between tasks and tools in this way can
            help a cook determine the best way to organize tools in a kitchen. Cutting items would
            necessarily be kept together near a prep area; having to run across the kitchen to
            another area where a poultry knife is kept with, say, chicken broth would be detrimental
            to the cook's workflow. It would make far more sense to have all of the items for the
            task of cutting in a single area.
The intentional arrangement of tools in a working kitchen might look
            something like Table 7.1: Table 7.1. A cook's taskonomy
PrepOvenStovePoultry knifeOven mittsPots and pansParing knifeBaking sheetsWooden spoonsVegetable knifeAluminum foilWokCutting boardParchment paper  Roasting pan 


Stop and Think: Office Taskonomy
Think about your personal office space. It may be an interesting hybrid space - it
                probably contains documents that could be classified in a hierarchical system, but
                it is also a work space that could lend itself to "taskonomy"
                organization. Which does it more closely resemble? How have any conflicts between
                hierarchy and "taskonomy" been resolved?












7.6. Computational Classification
In §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory" we briefly
            discussed the use of the machine learning technique known as clustering to create a
            system of categories for classifying a set of resources or documents for which measures
            of inter-item similarity can be calculated. Clustering programs do not start with a set
            of resources that are already classified, 
            making them unsupervised techniques. 
            The categories they create maximize the
            similarity of resources within a category and maximize the differences between them, but
            these statistically-designed categories are not always meaningful ones that can be named
            and used by people. We ended Chapter 6 by suggesting
            that it is often better to start with a designed classification scheme and then train
            computers with supervised learning techniques to
            assign new resources to the categories.
Because of its importance, ubiquity, and ease of processing by
            computers, it should not be surprising that a great many computational classification
            problems involve text. Some of these problems are relatively simple, like identifying
            the language in which a text is written, which is solved by comparing the probability of
            one, two, and three character-long contiguous strings in the text against their
            probabilities in different languages. For example, in English the most likely strings
            are "the", "and", "to", "of",
                "a", "in", and so on. But if the most likely strings are
                "der", "die", "und", and "den"
            the text is German and if they are "de", "la",
                "que", "el", and "en" the text is
            Spanish.
More challenging text classification problems arise when more
            features are required to describe each instance being classified and where the features
            are less predictable. The unknown author of a document can sometimes be identified by
            analyzing other documents known to be written by him to identify a set of features like
            word frequency, phrase structure, and sentence length that create a
            "writeprint" analogous to a fingerprint that uniquely identifies him.
            This kind of analysis was used in 2013 to determine that 
            Harry Potter 
            author J. K. Rowling 
            had written a crime fiction novel entitled
            The Cuckoo's Calling 
            under the pseudonym 
            Robert Galbraith.
        
Another challenging text classification problem is sentiment analysis, 
                  determining whether a text has a positive or negative opinion about some topic.   
                  Much academic and commercial research has been conducted to understand the sentiment of Twitter tweets, 
                  Facebook posts, email sent to customer support applications,  and other similar contexts.  
                  Sentiment analysis is hard because messages are often short so there is not much to analyze,
                  and because and because sarcasm, slang, clichés, and cultural norms 
                  obscure the content needed to make the classification.
Stop and Think: Sentiment Analysis
Sometimes, a text message might seem complimentary, but really isn't. Is the
                customer happy if he tweets "Nice job, United. You only lost one of my bags
                    this time." Think of some other short messages where sarcasm or slang
                makes sentiment analysis difficult. How would you write a product or service review
                that is unambiguously positive, negative, or neutral? How would you write a review
                whose sentiment is difficult to determine?

The best way to explain how computational classification works is with a detailed example.  A familiar type of supervised machine
                learning to classify resources is email spam filtering. Messages are classified as
                SPAM or HAM (i.e., non-SPAM); the former are sent to a SPAM folder, while the latter
                head to your inbox. We can describe this technique generically as follows:
First, the algorithm is provided with
                    emails that have been assigned to the SPAM and HAM categories. These labeled
                    instances make up the training set. The
                    training set can be created explicitly for training the classification
                    algorithm, or extracted from regular email activity when people sort their email
                    or select a "report spam" button in their email program.

The algorithm is given a set of pre-defined
                        "features" of the email messages, some from the
                    message metadata like the sender's email address or the number of recipients,
                    and some from the message content, like the presence of words that appear in
                    SPAM messages with higher frequency than in HAM messages (like
                        "pharmaceutical" or "beneficiary"). Different
                    algorithms use different features, so the "feature
                            selection" task is a pre-requisite step.

The algorithm examines each message and
                    stores the components reflecting the presence or absence of the pre-defined
                    features.

The algorithm modifies itself (i.e.,
                    learns) based on the training set to adjust the weight given to each feature
                    until it can correctly assign (most of) them into the categories they belonged
                    to in the training set.

The algorithm is now ready to classify new
                    uncategorized messages to the SPAM or HAM categories.

How the algorithm "learns" depends on the specific
            machine learning algorithm. Options include the "Naïve Bayes" model,
            decision trees, and support vector machines. The choice of algorithm is called "model
                selection."












Self-Review

Question









Answer




7.7. Key Points in Chapter Seven
Switch to Quiz Mode
What is classification?

Classification is the systematic assignment of resources
                        to a system of intentional categories, often institutional ones.
See §7.1, "Introduction"

What is a classification
                        system?

A classification system is foremost a specification for
                        the logical arrangement of resources because there are usually many possible
                        and often arbitrary mappings of logical locations to physical ones.
See §7.1.3, "Classification vs. Physical Arrangement"

How does classification affect the
                        potential interactions in an organizing system?

A classification creates structure in
                        the organizing system that increases the variety and capability of the
                        interactions it can support.
See §7.2.1.2, "Classifications Support Interactions"

Why are classifications always biased
                        in some way?

Classifications are always biased by the purposes,
                        experiences, professions, politics, values, and other characteristics and
                        preferences of the people making them.
See §7.2.3, "Classification Is Biased"

What are enumerative classification
                        schemes?

Classification schemes in which all possible categories to
                        which resources can be assigned are defined explicitly are called
                            enumerative.
See §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"

What is a taxonomic classification
                        scheme?

When multiple resource properties are considered in a
                        fixed sequence, each property creates another level in the system of
                        categories and the classification scheme is
                            hierarchical or
                        taxonomic.
See §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"

What is the relationship between
                        classification and standardization?

Classification and standardization are not identical, but
                        they are closely related. Some classifications become standards, and some
                        standards define new classifications.
See §7.1.5, "Classification and Standardization"

What is a standard?

A standard is a published specification that is developed
                        and maintained by consensus of all the relevant stakeholders in some domain
                        by following a defined and transparent process.
See §7.1.5.3, "Specifications vs. Standards"

Why are standard semantics
                        important?

Standard semantics are especially important in industries
                        or markets that have significant network effects where the value of a
                        product depends on the number of interoperable or compatible
                        products.
See §7.1.5.2, "Institutional Semantics"

What is literary warrant?

The principle of literary
                            warrant holds that a classification must be based only on the
                        specific resources that are being classified.
See §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"

What is the uniqueness
                        principle?

The
                            uniqueness
                            principle means the categories in a
                        classification scheme are mutually exclusive. Thus, when a logical concept
                        is assigned to a particular category, it cannot simultaneously be assigned
                        to another category.
See §7.2.2.2, "Principles for Assigning Resources to Categories"

How is the uniqueness principle
                        followed when resources do not clearly fit in a single category?

The general solution to satisfying the uniqueness
                        principle in library classifications when resources do not clearly fit in a
                        single category is to invent and follow a detailed set of often-arbitrary
                        rules.
See §7.2.2.2, "Principles for Assigning Resources to Categories"

What motivates category
                        change?

Categories sometimes change slowly, but they can also
                        change quickly and radically as a result of technological, process, or
                        geopolitical innovation or events.
See §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"

What is the relationship among
                        flexibility, extensibility and hospitality in a classification
                        system?

Flexibility,
                            extensibility, and hospitality
                        are synonyms for the degree to which the classification can accommodate new
                        resources.
See §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"

What distinguishes bibliographic
                        classification?

Bibliographic classification is distinctive because of a
                        legacy of physical arrangement and its scale and complexity.
See §7.3, "Bibliographic Classification"

What distinguishes faceted
                        classification systems?

Faceted classification systems
                        enumerate all the categories needed to assign resources appropriately, but
                        instead of combining them in advance in a fixed hierarchy, they are applied
                        only if they are needed to sort resources with a particular combination of
                        properties.
See §7.4, "Faceted Classification"

What is orthogonality in a faceted
                        classification system?

Facets should be independent
                                        dimensions, so a resource can have values of all of them
                                        while only having one value on each of them. 
See §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics"

What is semantic balance in a faceted
                        classification system?

Top-level facets should be the
                                        properties that best differentiate the resources in the
                                        classification domain. The values should be of equal
                                        semantic scope so that resources are distributed among the
                                        subcategories. Subfacets of "Cookware" like
                                            "Sauciers and Saucepans" and
                                            "Roasters and Brasiers" are semantically
                                        balanced as they are both named and grouped by cooking
                                        activity.
See §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics"

What is scalability in a faceted
                        classification system?

Facet values must accommodate
                                        potential additions to the set of instances. Including an
                                            "Other" value is an easy way to ensure that
                                        a facet is flexible and hospitable to new instances, but it
                                        not desirable if all new instances will be assigned that
                                        value.
See §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics"

What is the relationship between
                        classification and tagging?

Most tagging seems insufficiently principled to be
                        considered classification, except when tags are treated as category labels
                        or when decisions that make tagging more systematic turn a set of tags into
                        a tagsonomy.
See §7.1.2, "Classification vs. Tagging"

What is a taskonomy?

A task or activity-based classification system is called a
                            taskonomy.
See §7.5, "Classification by Activity Structure"

What is the relationship between
                        supervised learning and classification?

Supervised learning techniques start
                        with a designed classification scheme and then train computers to assign new
                        resources to the categories.
See §7.6, "Computational Classification"

Classification is the systematic assignment of resources
                        to a system of intentional categories, often institutional ones.
See §7.1, "Introduction"

A classification system is foremost a specification for
                        the logical arrangement of resources because there are usually many possible
                        and often arbitrary mappings of logical locations to physical ones.
See §7.1.3, "Classification vs. Physical Arrangement"

A classification creates structure in
                        the organizing system that increases the variety and capability of the
                        interactions it can support.
See §7.2.1.2, "Classifications Support Interactions"

Classifications are always biased by the purposes,
                        experiences, professions, politics, values, and other characteristics and
                        preferences of the people making them.
See §7.2.3, "Classification Is Biased"

Classification schemes in which all possible categories to
                        which resources can be assigned are defined explicitly are called
                            enumerative.
See §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"

When multiple resource properties are considered in a
                        fixed sequence, each property creates another level in the system of
                        categories and the classification scheme is
                            hierarchical or
                        taxonomic.
See §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"

Classification and standardization are not identical, but
                        they are closely related. Some classifications become standards, and some
                        standards define new classifications.
See §7.1.5, "Classification and Standardization"

A standard is a published specification that is developed
                        and maintained by consensus of all the relevant stakeholders in some domain
                        by following a defined and transparent process.
See §7.1.5.3, "Specifications vs. Standards"

Standard semantics are especially important in industries
                        or markets that have significant network effects where the value of a
                        product depends on the number of interoperable or compatible
                        products.
See §7.1.5.2, "Institutional Semantics"

The principle of literary
                            warrant holds that a classification must be based only on the
                        specific resources that are being classified.
See §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"

The
                            uniqueness
                            principle means the categories in a
                        classification scheme are mutually exclusive. Thus, when a logical concept
                        is assigned to a particular category, it cannot simultaneously be assigned
                        to another category.
See §7.2.2.2, "Principles for Assigning Resources to Categories"

The general solution to satisfying the uniqueness
                        principle in library classifications when resources do not clearly fit in a
                        single category is to invent and follow a detailed set of often-arbitrary
                        rules.
See §7.2.2.2, "Principles for Assigning Resources to Categories"

Categories sometimes change slowly, but they can also
                        change quickly and radically as a result of technological, process, or
                        geopolitical innovation or events.
See §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"

Flexibility,
                            extensibility, and hospitality
                        are synonyms for the degree to which the classification can accommodate new
                        resources.
See §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"

Bibliographic classification is distinctive because of a
                        legacy of physical arrangement and its scale and complexity.
See §7.3, "Bibliographic Classification"

Faceted classification systems
                        enumerate all the categories needed to assign resources appropriately, but
                        instead of combining them in advance in a fixed hierarchy, they are applied
                        only if they are needed to sort resources with a particular combination of
                        properties.
See §7.4, "Faceted Classification"

Facets should be independent
                                        dimensions, so a resource can have values of all of them
                                        while only having one value on each of them. 
See §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics"

Top-level facets should be the
                                        properties that best differentiate the resources in the
                                        classification domain. The values should be of equal
                                        semantic scope so that resources are distributed among the
                                        subcategories. Subfacets of "Cookware" like
                                            "Sauciers and Saucepans" and
                                            "Roasters and Brasiers" are semantically
                                        balanced as they are both named and grouped by cooking
                                        activity.
See §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics"

Facet values must accommodate
                                        potential additions to the set of instances. Including an
                                            "Other" value is an easy way to ensure that
                                        a facet is flexible and hospitable to new instances, but it
                                        not desirable if all new instances will be assigned that
                                        value.
See §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics"

Most tagging seems insufficiently principled to be
                        considered classification, except when tags are treated as category labels
                        or when decisions that make tagging more systematic turn a set of tags into
                        a tagsonomy.
See §7.1.2, "Classification vs. Tagging"

A task or activity-based classification system is called a
                            taskonomy.
See §7.5, "Classification by Activity Structure"

Supervised learning techniques start
                        with a designed classification scheme and then train computers to assign new
                        resources to the categories.
See §7.6, "Computational Classification"












Chapter 8. The Forms of Resource DescriptionsRyan ShawMurray Maloney
8.1. Introduction
Throughout this book, we have
                emphasized the importance of separately considering fundamental organizing
                principles, application-specific concepts, and details of implementation.
            The three-tier architecture we introduced in §1.2.3.1 is one way to conceptualize this separation. In §5.7, we contrasted the implementation-focused
            perspective for analyzing relationships with other perspectives that focus on the
            meaning and abstract structure of relationships. In this chapter, we present this
            contrast between conceptualization and implementation in terms of separating the
                content and form of resource descriptions.
In the previous chapters, we have considered principles and concepts
            of organizing in many different contexts, ranging from personal organizing systems to
            cultural and institutional ones. We have noted that some organizing systems have limited
            scope and expected lifetime, such as a task-oriented personal organizing system like a
            shopping list. Other organizing systems support broad uses that rely on standard
            categories developed through rigorous processes, like a product catalog.
By this point you should have a good sense of the various conceptual
            issues you need to consider when deciding how to describe a resource in order to meet
            the goals of your organizing system. Considering those issues will give you some sense
            of what the content of your descriptions should be. In order to focus on the conceptual
            issues, we have deferred discussion of specific implementation issues. Implementation
            involves choosing the specific form of your descriptions, and that is the topic of this
            chapter.
We can approach the problem of how
                to form resource descriptions from two perspectives: structuring and
                writing. From one perspective, resource descriptions are things that are
                used by both people and computational agents. From this
            perspective, choosing the form of resource descriptions is a kind of design. This is
            easy to see for certain kinds of resource descriptions, notably signs and maps found in
            physical environments like airport terminals, public libraries, and malls. In these
            spaces, resource descriptions are quite literally designed to help people orient
            themselves and find their way. But any kind of resource description, not just those
            embedded in the built environment, can be viewed as a designed object. Designing an
            object involves making decisions about how it should be structured so that it can best
            be used for its intended purpose. From a design perspective, choosing the form of a
            resource description means making decisions about its
            structure.
In §5.5, we took a structural
            perspective on resources and the relationships among them. In this chapter, we will take
            a structural perspective on resource descriptions. The difference
            is subtle but important. A structural perspective on resource
                relationships focuses on how people or computational processes
            associate, arrange, and connect those resources. A structural perspective on resource
                descriptions focuses on how those associations, arrangements,
            and connections are explicitly represented or implemented in the descriptions we create.
            Mismatches between the structure imposed on the resources being organized and the
            structure of the descriptions used to implement that organization could result in an
            organizing system that is complex, inefficient, and difficult to maintain, as you will
            see in our first example 
            (Example 8.1, "Description structured as a dictionary").
The structures of resource descriptions enable or inhibit particular
            ways of interacting with those descriptions, just as the descriptions themselves enable
            or inhibit particular ways of interacting with the described resources (see §2.4, "Designing Resource-based Interactions", and Chapter 9, "Interactions with Resources"). Keep in mind that resource descriptions are themselves information
            resources, so much of what we will say in this chapter is applicable to the structures
            and forms of information resources in general. Put another way, the structure and form
            of information resources informs the design of resource descriptions.
From another perspective, creating resource descriptions is a kind of
                writing. I may describe something to you orally, but such a
            description might not be very useful to an organizing system unless it were transcribed.
            Organizing systems need persistent descriptions, and that means they need to be written.
            In that sense, choosing the form of a resource description means making decisions about
                notation and syntax.
Modern Western culture tends to make a sharp distinction between
            designing and writing, but there are areas where this distinction breaks down, and the
            creation of resource descriptions in organizing systems is one of them. In the following
            sections, we will use designing and writing as two lenses for looking at the problem of
            how to choose the form of resource descriptions. Specifically, we will examine the
            spectrum of options we have for structuring descriptions, and the kinds of syntaxes we
            have for writing those descriptions.












8.2. Structuring Descriptions
Choosing how to structure resource
                descriptions is a matter of making principled and purposeful design decisions in
                order to solve specific problems, serve specific purposes, or bring about some
                desirable property in the descriptions. Most of these decisions are
            specific to a domain: the particular context of application for the
            organizing system being designed and the kinds of interactions with resources it will
            enable. Making these kinds of context-specific decisions results in a model of that
                domain. (See §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description".)
Over time, many people have built similar kinds of descriptions. They
            have had similar purposes, desired similar properties, and faced similar problems.
            Unsurprisingly, they have converged on some of the same decisions. When common sets of design
                decisions can be identified that are not specific to any one domain, they often
                become systematized in textbooks and in design practices, and may eventually be
                designed into standard formats and architectures for creating organizing systems.
                These formally recognized sets of design decisions are known as abstract models or
                        metamodels. Metamodels
                describe structures commonly found in resource descriptions and other information
                resources, regardless of the specific domain. While any designer of an
            organizing system will usually create a model of her specific domain, she usually will
            not create an entirely new metamodel but will instead make choices from among the
            metamodels that have been formally recognized and incorporated into existing standards.
            The resulting model is sometimes called a "domain-specific
                language." Reusing standard metamodels can bring great economical advantages,
            as developers can reuse tools designed for and knowledge about these metamodels, rather
            than having to start from scratch.
In the following sections, we examine some common kinds of structures
            used as the basis for metamodels. But first, we consider a concrete example of how the
            structure of resource descriptions supports or inhibits particular uses. As we explained
            in Chapter 1, the concept of a resource
            de-emphasizes the differences between physical and digital things in favor of focusing
            on how things, in general, are used to support goal-oriented activity. Different kinds
            of books can be treated as information resources regardless of the particular mix of
            tangible and intangible properties they may have. Since resource descriptions are also
            information resources, we can similarly consider how their structures support particular
            uses, independent of whether they are physical, digital, or a mix of both.
During World War II, a British chemist named W. E. Batten developed a system for organizing patents. The system consisted of a language for describing the product, process, use,
            and apparatus of a patent, and a way of using punched cards to record these
            descriptions. Batten used cards printed with matrices of 800 positions (see Figure 8.1). Each card represented a
            specific value from the vocabulary of the description language, and each position
            corresponded to a particular patent. 
            To describe patent #256 as covering
                extrusion of polythene to produce cable coverings, one would
            first select the cards for the values polythene,
                extrusion, and cable coverings, and then
            punch each card at the 256th position. The description of
            patent #256 would thus extend over these three cards.
Figure 8.1. A Batten Card.

An example of a punch card used by
                            Batten to describe a particular patent in a patent collection. Each card
                            represented an individual description term, and each punch position on a
                            card represented a particular patent.


The advantage of this structure is that to find patents covering
                extrusion of polythene (for any purpose), one needs only to
            select the two cards corresponding to those values, lay one on top of the other, and
            hold them up to a light. Light will shine through wherever there is a position
            corresponding to a patent described using those values. Patents meeting a certain
            description are easily found due to the structure of the cards designed to describe the
            patents.
Of course, this system has clear disadvantages as well. Finding the
            concepts associated with a particular patent is tedious, because every card must be
            inspected. Adding a new patent is relatively easy as long as there is an index that
            allows the cards for specific concepts to be located quickly. However, once the cards
            run out of space for punching holes, the whole set of cards must be duplicated to
            accommodate more patents: a very expensive operation. Adding new concepts is potentially
            easy: simply add a new card. But if we want to be able to find existing patents using
            the new concept, all the existing patents would have to be re-examined to determine
            whether their positions on the new card should be punched: also an expensive
            operation.
The structure of Batten's cards supported rapid selection of resources given
            a partial description. The kinds of structures we will examine in the following sections
            are not quite so elaborate as Batten's cards. But like the cards, each kind of structure
            supports more efficient mechanical execution of certain operations, at the cost of less
            efficient execution of others.
Punchcard Machine


Punchcards were an important
                                information input and storage medium for decades, even before the
                                invention of computers. The Hollerith keyboard punch was used to
                                transcribe the information collected in the 1890 US census. The
                                template being used in this photo is for recording information about
                                a farm. The punch cards were tabulated by electromechanical
                                machines. A merger of four tabulating machine companies in 1911
                                created a company whose current name is IBM.
This keyboard punch machine is in the collection of
                            the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, California.
(Photo by R. Glushko.)



8.2.1. Kinds of Structures
Sets, lists, dictionaries, trees, and graphs
                    are kinds of structures that can be used to form resource descriptions.
                As we shall see, each of these kinds is actually a family of related structures.
                These structures are abstractions: they describe formal
                structural properties in a general way, rather than specifying an exact physical or
                textual form. Abstractions are useful because they help us to see common properties
                shared by different specific ways of organizing information. By focusing on these
                common properties, we can more easily reason about the operations that different
                forms support and the affordances that they provide, without being distracted by
                less relevant details.
8.2.1.1. Blobs
The simplest kind of
                        structure is no structure at all. Consider the following
                    description of a book: Sebald's novel uses a walking tour in East
                        Anglia to meditate on links between past and present, East and
                        West. This description is an unstructured text expression with no clearly
                    defined internal parts, and we can consider it to be a 
                    blob. 
                    Or, more precisely, it has structure, but that
                    structure is the underlying grammatical structure of the English language, and
                    none of that grammatical structure is explicitly represented in a surface
                    structure when the sentence is expressed. As readers of English we can interpret
                    the sentence as a description of the subject of the book, but to do this
                    mechanically is difficult. On the other hand, such a written description is relatively easy to
                    create, as the describer can simply use natural language.
A blob need not be a blob of text. It could be a photograph of
                    a resource, or a recording of a spoken description of a resource. Like blobs of
                    text, blobs of pixels or sound have underlying structure that any person with
                    normal vision or hearing can understand easily. But we can treat these blobs as unstructured, because none of the
                    underlying structure in the visual or auditory input is explicit, and we are
                    concerned with the ways that the structures of resource descriptions support or
                    inhibit mechanical or computational operations.

8.2.1.2. Sets
The simplest
                        way to structure a description is to give it parts and treat them as a
                            set. For example, the description of Sebald's
                    novel might be reformulated as a set of terms: Sebald,
                        novel, East Anglia, walking, history. Doing this has
                    lost much of the meaning, but something has been gained: we now can easily
                    distinguish Sebald and walking as
                    separate items in the description. This makes it easier to find, for example, all the descriptions
                    that include the term walking. (Note that this is
                    different from simply searching through blob-of-text descriptions for the word
                        walking. When treated as a set, the description
                        Fiji, fire walking, memoir does not include the term
                        walking, though it does include the term fire
                        walking.)
Sets make it easy to find intersections
                        among descriptions.
Sets are also easy to create. In
                        §7.1.2 we looked at "folksonomies,"
                    organizing systems in which non-professional users create resource descriptions.
                    In these systems, descriptions are structured as sets of "tags." To find resources, users can
                    specify a set of tags to obtain
                    resources having descriptions that intersect at those tags. This is more
                    valuable if the tags come from a controlled vocabulary,
                    making intersections more likely. But enforcing vocabulary control adds
                    complexity to the description process, so a balance must be struck between
                    maximizing potential intersections and making description as simple as
                        practical.
A set is a type or class of
                            structure. We can refine the definition of different kinds of
                        sets by introducing constraints. For example, we might introduce
                        the constraint that a given set has a maximum number of items. Or we might
                        constrain a set to always have the same number of items, giving us a
                        fixed-size set. We can also remove constraints. Sets do not contain
                        duplicate items (think of a tagging system in which it does not make sense
                        to assign the same tag more than once to the same resource). If we remove
                        this uniqueness
                        constraint, we have a different structure known as a "bag" or
                            "multiset."

8.2.1.3. Lists
Constraints are what distinguish lists from sets. A list, like a set, is a collection of items with an additional
                        constraint: their items are ordered. If we
                    were designing a tagging system in which it was important that the order of the
                    tags be maintained, we would want to use lists, not sets. Unlike sets,
                        lists may contain duplicate
                    items. In a list, two items that are
                    otherwise the same can be distinguished by their position in the ordering, but
                    in a set this is not possible. For example, we might want to organize the tags
                    assigned to a resource, listing the most used tag first, the least frequently
                    used last, and the rest according to their frequency of
                    use.
Again, we can introduce constraints to refine the definition
                    of different kinds of  lists, such as
                    fixed-length lists. If we constrain a  list  to contain only items that are themselves  lists, and further specify that these
                    contained  lists  do not themselves
                    contains  lists, then we have a
                        table (a list of lists of items). A spreadsheet is a
                        list  of  lists.

8.2.1.4. Dictionaries
One major limitation of lists and sets is that, although items
                    can be individually addressed, there is no way to distinguish the items except
                    by comparing their values (or, in a list, their positions in the ordering). In a
                    set of terms like Sebald, novel, East Anglia,
                        walking, history, for example, one cannot easily tell that
                        Sebald refers to the author of the book while
                        East Anglia and walking refer to
                    what it is about. One way of addressing this problem is to break each item in a
                    set into two parts: a property and a value. So, for example, our simple set of tags
                    might become author: Sebald, type: novel, subject: East Anglia,
                        subject: walking, subject: history. Now we can say that
                        author, type, and
                        subject are the properties, and the original items in
                    the set are the values.
author
Sebald
type
novel
subject1
East Anglia
subject2
walking
subject3
history

This kind of structure is called a dictionary,
                    also known as a map
                    or an associative array. A dictionary is a
                        set of property-value pairs or entries. It is a set of
                        entries, not a list of entries, because the pairs are not ordered and
                        because each entry must have a unique key.
Note that this specialized
                        meaning of dictionary is
                        different from the more common meaning of "dictionary" as an
                        alphabetized list of terms accompanied by sentences that define
                        them. The two meanings are related, however. Like a
                        "real" dictionary, a dictionary structure allows us to easily find the value (such
                    as a definition) associated with a particular property or
                        key (such as a word). But unlike a real dictionary,
                    which orders its keys alphabetically, a dictionary structure does not specify an order for its
                        keys.
Dictionaries are found everywhere in
                        resource descriptions. Structured descriptions entered using a form
                    are easily represented as dictionaries, where the labels of the form items are
                    the properties and the data entered are the values. Tabular data with a
                        "header row" can be thought of as a set of dictionaries, where
                    the column headers are the properties for each dictionary, and each row is a set
                    of corresponding values. Dictionaries are also a basic type of data structure
                    found in nearly all programming languages (where they usually are referred to as
                    associative arrays).
Again, we can introduce or remove constraints to define specialized
                    types of dictionaries. A sorted dictionary adds an ordering over entries; in
                    other words, it is a list of entries rather than a set. A
                        multimap is a dictionary in which multiple entries may
                    have the same key.

8.2.1.5. Trees
In dictionaries as they are commonly
                        understood, properties are terms and values are their corresponding
                        definitions. The terms and values are usually words, phrases, or
                    other expressions that can be ordered alphabetically. But if generalize the
                    notion of a dictionary as abstract sets of property-value pairs, the values can
                    be anything at all. In particular, the values can themselves be dictionaries.
                        When a dictionary structure has values that are
                        themselves dictionaries, we say that the dictionaries are
                            nested. Nesting is very useful for
                    resource descriptions that need more structure than what a (non-nested)
                    dictionary can provide.
Figure 8.2, "Four Nested Dictionaries."
                    presents an example of nested dictionaries. At the top level there is one
                    dictionary with a single entry having the property a. The
                    value associated with a is a dictionary consisting of two
                    entries, the first having property b and the second having
                    property c. The values associated with
                        b and with c are also
                    dictionaries.
If we
                        nest dictionaries like this, and our "top" dictionary (the one
                        that contains all the others) has only one entry, then we have a kind of
                            tree structure.
Figure 8.3, "A Tree of Properties and Values." shows the same
                    properties and values as Figure 8.2, this time arranged to make the tree structure
                    more visible. Trees
consist of nodes (the letters and numbers in Figure 8.3) joined by
                        edges (the arrows). Each node in
                    the tree with a circle around it is a property, and the value of each property
                    consists of the nodes below (to the right of) it in the tree. A node is referred
                    to as the parent of the nodes below it, which in turn are
                    referred to as the children of that node. The edges show
                    these "parent of" relationships between the nodes. The node with no
                    parent is called the root of the tree. Nodes with no
                    children are called leaf nodes.
Figure 8.2. Four Nested Dictionaries.

When a dictionary contains
                                    other dictionaries, they are said to be nested.


Figure 8.3. A Tree of Properties and Values.

An alternative
                                    representation of nested dictionaries is as a tree. The lowest
                                    level or leaf nodes of the tree contain property
                                    values.


The XML Information Set defines a specific kind of tree
                        structure by adding very specific constraints, including ordering of child
                        nodes, to the basic definition of a tree. The addition of an ordering
                        constraint distinguishes XML trees from nested
                        dictionaries, in which child nodes do not have any order (because dictionary
                        entries do not have an ordering). Ordering is an important
                    constraint for resource descriptions, since without ordering it is impossible to,
                    for example, list multiple authors while guaranteeing that the order of authors
                    will be maintained. Figure 8.3 depicts a kind of tree with a different set of
                    constraints: all non-leaf nodes are properties, and all leafs are values. We
                    could also define a tree in which every node has both a property and a value.
                    Trees exist in a large variety of flavors, but they all share a common topology:
                    the edges between nodes are directed (one node is the parent and the other is
                    the child), and every node except the root has exactly one parent.
Trees provide a way to group statements describing
                    different but related resources. For example, consider the description
                    structured as a dictionary here: 
                    Example 8.1. Description structured as a dictionary
                    author given names → Winfried Georg
                    author surname → Sebald
                    title → Die Ringe des Saturn
                    pages → 371
 The dictionary groups together four property-value pairs describing a
                    particular book. (The arrows are simply a schematic way to indicate
                    property-value relations. Later in the chapter we look at ways to
                        "write" these relations using some specific syntax.)
But really the first two entries are not
                    describing the book; they are describing the book's author. So, it would be
                    better to group those two statements somehow. We can do this by nesting the
                    entries describing the author within the book description, creating a tree
                    structure: Example 8.2. Nesting an author description within a book description
                    author →
                            given names → Winfried Georg
                            surname → Sebald
                    title → Die Ringe des Saturn
                    pages → 371
 Using a tree works well in this case because we can treat the book as
                    the primary resource being described, making it the root of our tree, and adding
                    on the author description as a "branch."
We also could have chosen to make the author the
                    primary resource, giving us a tree like the one in Example 8.3. Example 8.3. Nesting book descriptions within an author description
                    given names → Winfried Georg
                    surname → Sebald
                    books authored →
                            1. title → Die Ringe des Saturn
                                pages → 371
                            2. title → Austerlitz
                                pages → 416



8.2.1.6. Graphs
Suppose we were describing two books, where the author of one
                    book is the subject of the other, as in Example 8.4, "Two related descriptions": Example 8.4. Two related descriptions
                    1. author → Mark Richard McCulloch
                        title → Understanding W. G. Sebald
                        subject → Winfried Georg Sebald
                    2. author → Winfried Georg Sebald
                        title → Die Ringe des Saturn
 By looking at these descriptions, we can guess the relationship
                    between the two books, but that relationship is not explicitly represented in
                    the structure: we just have two separate dictionaries and have inferred the
                    relationship by matching property values. It is possible that this inference
                    could be wrong: there might be two people named Winfried Georg
                        Sebald. How can we structure these
                        descriptions to explicitly represent the fact that the Winfried
                            Georg Sebald that is the subject of the first book is the
                        same Winfried Georg Sebald who authored the
                        second?
One possibility would be to make Winfried Georg
                        Sebald the root of a tree, similar to the approach taken in Example 8.3, "Nesting book descriptions within an author description", adding a book about
                    property alongside the books authored one. This solution
                    would work fine if people were our primary resources, and it thus
                    made sense to structure our descriptions around them. But suppose that we had
                    decided that our descriptions should be structured around books, and that we
                    were using a vocabulary that took this perspective (with properties such as
                        author and subject rather than
                        books authored and books about).
                    We should not let a particular structure limit the organizational perspective we
                    can take, as Batten's cards did. Instead, we should consciously choose
                    structures to suit our organizational perspective. How can we do this?
If we treat our two book descriptions as
                    trees, we can join the two branches (subject and author) that share a value.
                    When we do this, we no longer have a tree, because we now have a node with more
                    than one parent (Figure 8.4, "Descriptions Linked into a Graph."). The structure in Figure 8.4, "Descriptions Linked into a Graph." is a graph.
                        Like a tree, a graph
consists of a set of nodes connected by edges. These edges may or
                        may not have a direction (§5.6.3, "Directionality"). If they do, the graph is referred to as a
                            "directed graph." If a graph is directed, it may be possible to start at a node
                        and follow edges in a path that leads back to the starting node. Such a path
                        is called a "cycle." If a directed graph has no cycles, it is
                        referred to as an "acyclic graph."
A tree is just a more constrained kind of graph. Trees are
                        directed graphs because the "parent of"
                    relationship between nodes is asymmetric: the edges are arrows that point in a
                    certain direction. (See §5.3.2.1, "Symmetry".) Furthermore, trees
                    are acyclic graphs, because if you follow the directed
                    edges from one node to another, you can never encounter the same node twice.
                    Finally, trees have the constraint that every node (except the root) must have
                    exactly one parent.
In Figure 8.4, "Descriptions Linked into a Graph." we have violated this
                    constraint by joining our two book trees. The graph that results is still
                    directed and acyclic, but because the Winfried George
                        Sebald node now has two parents, it is no longer a tree.
Stop and Think: Social Network Properties
Compare the concept of "friend" in Facebook with that of
                            "follower" in Twitter, in terms of 
                        the semantic properties discussed in §5.3.2, "Properties of Semantic Relationships"
                        and the graph properties discussed in this section.
                    

Graphs are very
                    general and flexible structures. Many kinds of systems can be conceived of as
                    nodes connected by edges: stations connected by subway lines, people connected
                    by friendships, decisions connected by dependencies, and so on. Relationships
                    can be modeled in different ways using different kinds of graphs. For example, if we assume that
                    friendship is symmetric (see §5.3.2.1, "Symmetry"), we would use an undirected
                        graph to model the
                    relationship. However, in web-based social networks friendship is often
                    asymmetric (you might "friend" someone who does not reciprocate),
                    so a directed graph is more
                    appropriate.
Figure 8.4. Descriptions Linked into a Graph.

Descriptions can be linked
                                    to form a graph when the value assigned to two different
                                    properties is the same.


Often it is useful to treat a graph as a set of pairs of nodes, where each pair may or may
                    not be directly connected by an edge. Many approaches to characterizing
                    structural relationships among resources (see §5.5.3, "Structural Relationships between Resources") are based on modeling the related
                    resources as a set of pairs of nodes, and then analyzing patterns of
                    connectedness among them. As we will see, being able to break down a graph into pairs is also useful when we
                    structure resource descriptions as graphs.


8.2.2. Comparing Metamodels: JSON, XML and RDF
Now that we are familiar with the various
                    kinds of metamodels used to structure resource
                descriptions, we can take a closer look at some specific
                metamodels. A detailed comparison of the affordances of different metamodels is
                beyond the scope of this chapter. Here we will simply take a brief look at three
                popular metamodels—JSON,
                    XML, and RDF—in order
                to see how they further specify and constrain the more general kinds of metamodels
                introduced above.
8.2.2.1. JSON
JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)JavaScript Object
                                                  Notation (JSON)
 is a textual format for exchanging data that borrows
                                    its metamodel from the JavaScript programming language.
                                    Specifically, the JSON metamodel consists of
                                    two kinds of structures found in JavaScript: lists (called
                                        arrays in JavaScript) and dictionaries
                                    (called objects in JavaScript). Lists and
                                    dictionaries contain values, which may be strings of text,
                                    numbers, Booleans (true or false), or the null (empty) value.
                                    Again, these types of values are taken directly from JavaScript.
                                    Lists and dictionaries can be values too, meaning lists and
                                    dictionaries can be nested within one another to produce more
                                    complex structures such as tables and trees.
Lists, dictionaries, and a basic set of value types constitute
                    the JSON metamodel. Because this metamodel is a subset of
                    JavaScript, the JSON metamodel is very easy to work with in
                    JavaScript. Since JavaScript is the only programming language that is available
                    in all web browsers, JSON has become a popular choice for
                    developers who need to work with data and resource descriptions on the web. (See
                        §8.3.2, "Writing Systems" later in this chapter.) Furthermore, many
                    modern programming languages provide data structures and value types equivalent
                    to those provided by JavaScript. So, data represented as JSON
                    is easy to work with in many programming languages, not just JavaScript.

8.2.2.2. XML Information Set
The XML Information
                        Set metamodel is derived from data structures used for document
                    markup. (See §4.2.2.2.) These markup
                        structures—elements and attributes—are well suited
                    for programmatically manipulating the structure of documents and data
                        together.
XML InfosetThe
                                        XML
                                        Infoset is a tree structure, where
                                    each node of the tree is defined to be an information
                                        item of a particular type. Each information item
                                    has a set of type-specific properties associated with it. At the
                                    root of the tree is a document item, which has exactly one
                                    element item as its child. An
                                            element item has a set of
                                            attribute items, and a list of child nodes.
                                        These child nodes may include other element items, or they
                                        may be character items. (See §8.2.1, "Kinds of Structures" below for more on characters.)
                                        Attribute
                                    items may contain character items, or they may contain typed
                                    data, such as name tokens, identifiers and references. Element
                                    identifiers and references (ID/IDREF) may be used to connect
                                    nodes, transforming a tree into a graph.

Figure 8.5, "A Description Structure." is a graphical
                    representation of how an XML document might be used to
                    structure part of a description of an author and his works. This example
                    demonstrates how we might use element items to model the domain of the
                    description, by giving them names such as author and title. The character items
                    that are the children of these elements hold the content of the description:
                    author names, book titles, and so on. Attribute items are used to hold auxiliary
                    information about this content, such as its language.
Figure 8.5. A Description Structure.

An XML document can be
                                    described as a tree in which elements are nodes that can contain
                                    character content directly or attributes that contain character
                                    content.


This example also demonstrates how the XML
                    Infoset supports mixed
                        content by allowing element items and character items to be
                        "siblings" of the same parent element. In this case, the
                    Infoset structure allows us to specify that the book description can be
                    displayed as a line of text consisting of the original title and the translated
                    title in parentheses. The elements and attributes are used to indicate that this
                    line of text consists of two titles written in different languages, not a single
                    title containing parentheses.
If not for mixed content, we could not write narrative text
                    with hypertext links
                    embedded in the middle of a sentence. It gives us the ability to identify the
                    subcomponents of a sentence, so that we could distinguish the terms
                        "Sebald,"
"walking" and "East Anglia" as an author and two
                    subjects.
Using schemas to define data representation
                        formats is a good practice that facilitates shared understanding and
                        contributes to long-term maintainability in institutional or business
                        contexts. An XML schema represents a contract
                    among the parties subscribing to its definitions, whereas JSON
                    depends on out-of-band communication among programmers. The notion that
                        "the code is the documentation" may be fashionable among
                    programmers, but modelers prefer to design at a higher level of abstraction and
                    then implement.
The XML Infoset presents a
                    strong contrast to JSON and does not always map in a
                    straightforward way to the data structures used in popular web scripting
                    languages. Whereas JSON's structures make it easier for
                    object-oriented programmers to readily exchange data, they lack any formal
                    schema language and cannot easily handle mixed content.

8.2.2.3. RDF
In Figure 8.4, "Descriptions Linked into a Graph.",
                    we structured our resource description as a graph by treating resources,
                    properties, and values as nodes, with edges reflecting their combination into
                    descriptive statements. However, a more common approach is to treat resources
                    and values as nodes, and properties as the edges that connect them. Figure 8.6, "Treating Properties as Edges Rather Than Nodes." shows the same description as Figure 8.4, "Descriptions Linked into a Graph.", this time with
                    properties treated as edges. This roughly corresponds to the particular kind of
                    graph metamodel defined by RDF. (§4.2.2.3, "Tagging of Web-based Resources" introduced RDF.)
Figure 8.6. Treating Properties as Edges Rather Than Nodes.

We can treat each component
                                    of a description as a pair of nodes (a resource and a value)
                                    with an edge (the property) linking them. Here, we have two book
                                    resources that are related to four values through five
                                    properties. The single value node, "Winfried George
                                        Sebald" is the subject of one book while being the
                                    author of the second book. The books are depicted as boxes, the
                                    edges as labeled arrows and the values as text
                                strings.


We have noted that we can treat a graph as a set of pairs of
                    nodes, where each pair may be connected by an edge. Similarly, we can treat each
                    component of the description in Figure 8.6, "Treating Properties as Edges Rather Than Nodes." as a pair of nodes (a resource and a value) with an edge
                    (the property) linking them. In the RDF metamodel,
                        a pair of nodes and its edge is called a triple, because it consists of three parts
                        (two nodes and one edge). The RDF metamodel is a directed graph, so it
                        identifies one node (the one from which the edge is pointing) as the
                            subject of the triple,
                        and the other node (the one to which the edge is pointing) as its object. The edge is referred to as the
                            predicate or (as we
                        have been saying) property of the
                        triple.
Figure 8.7. Listing Triples Individually.

Lists each of the triples
                                    individually. Here, each statement relates one resource to one
                                    value through an edge. Thus, we have two distinct
                                        "Winfried George Sebald" value nodes. The books
                                    are depicted as boxes, the edges as labeled arrows and the
                                    values as text strings.


Figure 8.7, "Listing Triples Individually." lists separately all
                    the triples in Figure 8.6
                    However, there is something missing in Figure 8.7. Figure 8.6 clearly indicates that the Winfried
                        George Sebald who is the subject of book 1 is the same
                        Winfried George Sebald who is the author of book 2. In
                        Figure 8.7, "Listing Triples Individually." this relationship is not clear.
                        How can we tell if the Winfried
                            George Sebald of the third triple is the same as the
                            Winfried George Sebald of the triple statement? For
                        that matter, how can we tell if the first three triples all involve the same
                        book 1? This is easy to show in a diagram of the entire description
                    graph, where we can have multiple edges attached to a node. But when we
                    disaggregate that graph into triples, we need some way of uniquely referring to
                    nodes. We need identifiers (§3.4.3, "Choosing Good Names and Identifiers"). When two triples
                    have nodes with the same identifier, we can know that it is the same node. RDF
                    achieves this by associating URIs with nodes. (See §4.2.2.3, "Tagging of Web-based Resources")
The need to identify nodes when we break down an
                        RDF graph into triples becomes important when we want to
                        "write"
RDF graphs—create textual
                    representations of them instead of depicting them—so that
                    they can be exchanged as data. Tree structures do not necessarily have this
                    problem, because it is possible to textually represent a tree structure without
                    having to mention any node more than once. Thus, one price paid for the
                    generality and flexibility of graph structures is the added complexity of
                    recording, representing or writing those structures.

8.2.2.4. Choosing Your Constraints
This tradeoff between flexibility and complexity illustrates a more
                    general point about constraints. In the context of
                        managing and interacting with resource descriptions, constraints are a good
                        thing. As discussed above, a tree is a graph with very specific
                    constraints. These constraints allow you to do things with trees that are not
                    possible with graphs in general, such as representing them textually without
                    repeating yourself, or uniquely identifying nodes by the path from the root of
                    the tree to that node. This can make managing descriptions and the resources
                    they describe easier and more
                        efficient—if a tree structure is
                    a good fit to the requirements of the organizing system. For example, an ordered
                    tree structure is a good fit for the hierarchical structure of the content of a
                    book or book-like document, such as an aircraft service manual or an SEC filing.
                    On the other hand, the network of relationships among the people and
                    organizations that collaborated to produce a book might be better represented
                    using a graph structure. XML is most often used to represent
                    hierarchies, but is also capable of representing network structures.


8.2.3. Modeling within Constraints
A metamodel imposes certain constraints on the
                    structure of our resource descriptions. But in organizing systems, we
                usually need to further specify the content and composition of descriptions of the
                specific types of resources being organized. For example, when designing a system
                for organizing books, it is not sufficient to say that a book's description is
                structured using XML, because the XML metamodel
                constrains structure and not the content of descriptions. We need also to specify
                that a book description includes a list of contributors, each entry of which
                provides a name and indicates the role of that contributor. This kind of
                specification is a model to which our descriptions of books are
                expected to conform. (See §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description".)
When designing an organizing system we may choose to reuse a standard
                model. For example, 
                ONIX for Books 
                is a standard model (conforming to the XML
                metamodel) developed by the publishing industry for describing books.
If no such standard exists, or existing standards do not suit our needs,
                we may create a new model for our specific domain. But we will not usually create a
                new metamodel: instead we will make choices from among the metamodels, such as
                    JSON, XML, or RDF, that have
                been formally recognized and incorporated into existing standards. Once we have selected a metamodel, we know the constraints we
                    have to work with when modeling the resources and collections in our specific
                    domain.
8.2.3.1. Specifying Vocabularies and Schemas
Creating a model for descriptions of
                        resources in a particular domain involves specifying the common elements of
                        those descriptions, and giving those elements standard names.
(See §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources") The model
                    may also specify how these elements are arranged into larger structures, for
                    example, how they are ordered into lists nested into trees. Metamodels vary in
                    the tools they provide for specifying the structure and composition of
                    domain-specific models, and in the maturity and robustness of the methods for
                    designing them.
                    RDF and XML each provide different,
                    metamodel-specific tools to define a model for a specific domain. But not every
                    metamodel provides such tools.
In XML, models are defined in separate
                    documents known as schemas. An
                            XML schema defining a domain model provides a
                        vocabulary of terms that can be used as element and attribute names in
                            XML documents that adhere to that model. 
                    For example, Onix for Books 
                    schema specifies that an author of a book should be called a
                        Contributor, and that the page count should be called an
                        Extent. An XML schema also defines rules
                    for how those elements, attributes, and their content can be arranged into
                    higher-level structures. 
                    For example, the Onix for Books 
                    specifies that the description of a book must include a list of
                        Contributor elements, that this list must have at least
                    one element in it, and that each Contributor element must
                    have a ContributorRole child element.
If two descriptions share the same
                            XML schema and use only that schema, then combining
                        them is straightforward. If not, it can be problematic, unless
                    someone has figured out exactly how the two schemas should "map" to
                    one another. Finding such a mapping is not a trivial problem, as
                        XML schemas may differ semantically, lexically,
                    structurally, or architecturally despite sharing a common implementation form.
                    (See Chapter 5, "Describing Relationships and Structures".)
Tree structures can vary considerably
                        while still conforming to the XML Infoset
                        metamodel. Users of XML often specify rules for
                    checking whether certain patterns appear in an XML document
                    (document-level validation). This is less often done with RDF,
                    because graphs that conform to the RDF metamodel all have the
                    same structure: they are all sets of triples. This shared structure makes it
                    simple to combine different RDF descriptions without worrying about checking
                    structure at the document level. However, sometimes it is desirable to check
                    descriptions at the document level, as when part of a description is required.
                    As with XML, if consumers of those descriptions want to assert
                    that they expect those descriptions to have a certain structure (such as a
                    required property), they must check them at the document level.
Because the RDF metamodel already defines
                    structure, defining a domain-specific model in RDF mainly
                    involves specifying URIs and names for predicates. A set of RDF
                        predicate names and URIs is known as an RDF
                        vocabulary.
Publication of vocabularies on the web and
                        the use of URIs to identify and refer to predicate
                        definitions are key principles of Linked Data and the Semantic Web. (Also
                    see §5.8.1, as well as later in this
                        chapter).
For example, the Resource Description and Access (RDA) standard for cataloging library resources includes a set of
                        RDF vocabularies defining predicates usable in cataloging
                    descriptions. One such predicate is:
                            <http://rdvocab.info/Elements/extentOfText>
                    which is defined as "the number and type of units and/or subunits making
                        up a resource consisting of text, with or without accompanying
                        illustrations." The vocabulary further specifies that this predicate
                    is a refinement of a more general predicate:
                            <http://rdvocab.info/Elements/extent>
                    which can be used to indicate, "the number and type of units and/or
                        subunits making up a resource" regardless of whether it is textual or
                    not.
JSON lacks any
                        standardized way to define which terms can be used. That does not
                    mean one cannot use a standard vocabulary when creating descriptions using
                        JSON, only that there is no agreed-upon way to use
                        JSON to communicate which vocabulary is being used, and no
                    way to automatically check that it is being used correctly.

8.2.3.2. Controlling Values
So far, we have focused on how models specify vocabularies of
                    terms and how those terms can be used in descriptions. But models may also
                    constrain the values or content of descriptions. Sometimes, a single model will define both the terms that can be used for
                        property names and the terms that can be used for property values.
                    For example, an XML schema may enumerate a list of valid terms
                    for an attribute value.
Often, however, there are separate, specialized vocabularies
                    of terms intended for use as property values in resource descriptions. Typically
                    these vocabularies provide values for use within statements that describe what a
                    resource is about. Examples of such subject vocabularies include the Library of Congress Subject Headings (LOC-SH) and the Medical Subject Headings (MeSH). Other vocabularies may provide authoritative names for people,
                    corporations, or places. Classification schemes are yet another kind of
                    vocabulary, providing the category names for use as the values in descriptive
                    statements that classify resources.
Because different metamodels take different approaches 
                    to specifying vocabularies,
                    there will usually be different versions of these vocabularies for use with
                    different metamodels. 
                     
                    For example the LCSH are available both as
                        XML conforming to the Metadata Authority Description Standard (MADS) schema, and as RDF using the
                        Simple Knowledge Organization System (SKOS) vocabulary.
Specifying a vocabulary is just one
                        way models can control what values can be assigned to properties.
                    Another strategy is to specify what types of values
                    can be assigned. For example, a model for book descriptions may specify that the
                    value of a pages property must be a positive integer. Or it
                    could be more specific; a course catalog might give each course an identifier
                    that contains a two-letter department code followed by a 1-3 digit course
                    number. Specifying a data type like this with a regular expression narrows
                    down the set of possible values for the property without having to enumerate
                    every possible value. (See the sidebar.)
In addition to or in lieu of specifying a type, a model may specify
                    an encoding scheme for values. An encoding
                            scheme is a specialized writing system or syntax for
                        particular types of values. For example, a model like Atom for
                    describing syndicated web content requires a publication date. But there are
                    many different ways to write dates: 9/2/76, 2 Sept.
                        1976, September 2nd 1976, etc. Atom also
                    specifies an encoding scheme for date values. The encoding scheme is RFC3339, 
                    a standard for writing dates. When using RFC3339, 
                    one always writes a date using the same form:
                        1976-09-02.
Encoding schemes are often defined in
                        conjunction with standardized identifiers.
(See §3.4.3.1, "Make Names Informative".) For
                    example, International Standard Book Numbers (ISBN) are not just sequences of Arabic numerals: they are values
                    written using the ISBN encoding scheme. This scheme specifies
                    how to separate the sequence of numerals into parts, and how each of these parts
                    should be interpreted. The ISBN 978-3-8218-4448-0 has five
                    parts, the first three of which indicate that the resource with this identifier
                    is 1) a product of the book publishing industry, 2) published in a
                    German-speaking country, and 3) published by the publishing house
                        Eichborn.
Encoding schemes can be viewed as very specialized models of
                    particular kinds of information, such as dates or book identifiers. But because
                    they specify not only the structure of this information, but also how it should
                    be written, we can also view them as specialized writing systems. That is,
                    encoding schemes specify how to textually represent
                    information.
In the second half of this chapter, we will focus on the
                    issues involved in textually representing resource
                        descriptions—writing them. Graphs, trees,
                    dictionaries, lists, and sets are general types of structures found in different
                    metamodels. Thinking about these broad types and how they fit or do not fit the
                    ways we want to model our resource descriptions can help us select a specific
                    metamodel. Specific metamodels such as the XML Infoset or
                        RDF are formalized and standardized definitions of the more
                    general types of structures discussed above. Once we have selected a metamodel,
                    we know the constraints we have to work with when modeling the resources and collections in our
                    specific domain. But because metamodels are abstract and exist only on a
                    conceptual level, they can only take us so far. If we want to create, store, and
                    exchange individual resource descriptions, we need to make the structures
                    defined by our abstract metamodels concrete. We need to write them.













8.3. Writing Descriptions
Suppose that I am organizing books, and I have decided that it is
            important for the purposes of this organizing to know the title of each book and how
            many pages it has. Before me I have a book, which I examine to determine that its title
            is Die Ringe des Saturn and it has 371 pages.
                Example 8.5, "Basic ways of writing part of a book description." lists a few of the ways to write this
            description. Let us examine these various forms of writing to see what they have in
            common and where they differ. Example 8.5. Basic ways of writing part of a book description.


The title is Die Ringe des
                                            Saturn and it has 371 pages.

{ book: {"title":"Die Ringe des Saturn","pages":371} }

<book pages="371"> <title>Die Ringe des Saturn</title> </book>

<div class="book">The title is 
<span class="title">Die Ringe des Saturn</span>
and it has <span class="pages">371 pages.</span>
</div>

<http://lccn.loc.gov/96103072>
<http://rdvocab.info/Elements/title> "Die Ringe des Saturn"@de ;
<http://rdvocab.info/Elements/extentOfText> "371 p." .


 We examine the notations, writing systems and syntax of each of these
            description forms, and others, in the following sections.
8.3.1. Notations
First, let us look at the actual marks on the page. To write you must
                make marks or—more likely—select from
                a menu of marks using a keyboard. In either case, 
                you are using a notation: a set of characters with distinct forms.
The Latin alphabet is a notation, as are Arabic numerals.
                    Some more exotic notations include the symbols used for editorial markup and
                    alchemical symbols.
The characters in a notation usually have an
                    ordering. Arabic numerals are ordered 1 2 3 and so
                on. English-speaking children usually learn the ordering of the Latin alphabet in
                the form of an alphabet song.
A character may belong to more than one
                    notation. The examples in Example 8.5, "Basic ways of writing part of a book description." use characters from a few different notations:
                the letters of the Latin alphabet, Arabic numerals, and a handful of auxiliary
                marks: . { } " :< > / $ Collectively, all of these
                    characters—alphabet, numerals, and auxiliary
                    marks—also belong to a notation called the 
                American Standard Code for Information
                        Interchange (ASCII).
ASCII is an
                    example of a notation that has been codified and standardized for use in a
                    digital environment. A traditional notation like the Latin alphabet can
                withstand a certain degree of variation in the form of a particular mark. Two people
                might write the letter A rather differently, but as long as
                they can mutually recognize each other's marks as an "A," they can
                successfully share a notation. Computers, however, cannot easily accommodate such
                variation. Each character must be strictly defined. In the case of
                    ASCII, each character is given a number from 0 to 127, so that
                there are 128 ASCII characters. When using a computer to type ASCII
                characters, each key you press selects a character from this "menu" of
                128 characters. A notation
                    that has had numbers assigned to its characters is called a character
                    encoding.

Table 8.1. ASCII
 012345670NULDLEspace0@P`p1SOHDC1!1AQaq2STXDC2"2BRbr3ETXDC3#3CScs4EOTDC4$4DTdt5ENQNAK%5EUeu6ACKSYN&6FVfv7BELETB'7GWgw8BSCAN(8HXhx9HTEM)9IYiyALFSUB*:JZjzBVTESC+;K[k{CFFFS,<L\l|DCRGS-=M]m}ESORS.>N^n~FSIUS/?O_oDEL
The most ambitious character coding in
                    existence is Unicode, which as of version 6.0 assigns numbers to 109,449
                    characters.
Unicode makes the important
                    distinction between characters and
                        glyphs. A character
is the smallest meaningful unit of a written language. In
                    alphabet-based languages like English, characters are letters; in languages like Chinese, characters
                    are ideographs. Unicode treats all of these characters as abstract ideas
                    (Latin capital A) rather than specific marks (A
                    A
A
A). A specific mark that can be
                    used to depict a character is a
                        glyph.
A font is a collection of glyphs used to depict some
                    set of characters. A Unicode
                    font explicitly associates each glyph with a particular number in the Unicode
                    character encoding. The inability of computers to use contextual
                understanding to bridge the gap between various glyphs and the abstract character depicted by those glyphs turns
                out to have important consequences for organizing systems.
Different notations may include very similar
                    marks. For example, modern music notation includes marks for indicating
                the pitch of note, known as accidentals. One of these music notation marks is
                    ♯ ("sharp"). The sharp sign looks very much
                like the symbol used in English as an abbreviation for the word
                    number, as in We're
                    #1! If you were to write a sharp sign and a number sign by hand, they would
                probably look identical. In a non-digital environment, we would rely on context to
                understand whether the written mark was being used as part of music notation, or
                mathematical notation, or as an English abbreviation.
Computers,
                    however, have no such intuitive understanding of context. Unicode
                encodes the number sign and the sharp sign as two different characters. As far as a
                computer using Unicode is concerned, ♯ and # are completely
                different, and the fact that they have similar-looking glyphs is irrelevant. That is
                a problem if, for example, a cataloger has carefully described a piece of music by
                correctly using the sharp sign, but a person looking for that piece of music
                searches for descriptions using the number sign (since that is what you get when you
                press the keyboard button with the symbol that most closely resembles a sharp
                    sign).

8.3.2. Writing Systems
A
                        writing
                            system employs one or more notations, and adds a
                    set of rules for using them. Most writing systems assume knowledge of a
                    particular human language. These writing systems are known as
                        glottic writing systems. But there are many writing
                    systems, such as mathematical and musical ones, that are not tied to human
                    languages in this way. Many of the writing systems used for describing resources
                    belong to this latter group, meaning that (at least in principle) they can be
                    used with equal facility by speakers of any language.
Glottic writing systems, being grounded in
                    natural human languages, are difficult to describe precisely and
                    comprehensively. Non-glottic writing systems, on the other hand, can be
                    described precisely and comprehensively using an abstract model. That
                is the connection between the structural perspective taken in the previous section,
                and the textual perspective taken in this section. A non-glottic writing system is
                described by a particular metamodel, and structures that fit within the constraints
                of a given metamodel can be textually represented using one or more writing systems
                that are described by that metamodel.
Some writing systems are closely
                    identified with specific metamodels. For example, XML
                and JSON are both 1) metamodels for
                structuring information and 2) writing systems for textually
                representing information. In other words, they specify both the abstract structure
                of a description and how to write it down. It is possible to conceive of other ways
                to textually represent the structure of these metamodels, but for each of these
                metamodels just one writing system has been standardized.
RDF, on the other hand, is
                    only a metamodel, not a writing system.
                    RDF only defines an abstract structure, not how to write that
                structure. So how do we write information that is
                    structured as RDF? It turns out that we have many choices. Unlike
                    XML and JSON, several different writing
                systems for the RDF metamodel have been standardized, including
                N-Triples, Turtle, RDFa, and RDF/XML. Each of these is a writing system that is abstractly described by the
                    RDF metamodel.
Writing systems provide rules for arranging
                    characters from a notation into meaningful structures. A character in a notation
                    has no inherent meaning. Characters in a notation only take on meaning in the
                    context of a writing system that uses that notation.
For example: what does the letter
                            I from the Latin alphabet
                    mean? That question can only be answered by looking at how it is being
                used in a particular writing system. If the writing system is American English, then
                whether I has a meaning depends on whether it
                is grouped with other letters or whether it stands alone. Only in the latter case
                does it have an assignable meaning. However in the arithmetic writing system of
                ancient Rome, which also uses as a notation the letters of the Latin alphabet,
                        I has a different meaning:
                    one.
This example also serves to illustrate how the ordering of a notation
                can differ from the ordering of a writing system that uses that notation. According to the ordering of the Latin alphabet, the twelfth
                    letter L comes before the twenty-second
                    letter V. But in the Roman numeric writing
                    system, V (the number 5) comes before
                            L (the number 50). 
                Unless we know which ordering we are using, we cannot arrange
                    L and
                    V
"in order."
Table 8.2. Roman Numerals
Roman NumberArabic NumberI1V5X10L50C100D500M1000

This kind of difference in ordering can arise in more subtle ways
                as well. When we alphabetically order names, we first compare the first character of
                each name, and arrange them according to the ordering of the writing system. 
                
                    The first known use of alphabetical ordering
                    was in the Library of Alexandria about two thousand years ago, when 
                    Zenodetus
                    arranged the collection according to the first letter of resource
                    names. If the first characters of two names are the same, we compare the second
                character, and so on. We can also apply this same kind of ordering procedure to
                sequences of numerals. If we do, then 334 will come before
                    67, because 3 (the first character of
                the first sequence) comes before 6 (the first character of the
                second sequence) according to the ordering of our notation (Arabic numerals).
                However, it is more common when ordering sequences of numerals to treat them as
                decimal numbers, and thus to use the ordering imposed by the decimal system. In the
                decimal writing system, 67 precedes 334,
                since the latter is a greater number.
This difference is important for organizing systems. Computers will sort values differently depending on whether
                    they are treating sequences of numerals as numbers or just as
                    sequences. Some organizing systems mix multiple ways of ordering the
                same characters. For example, Library of Congress
call numbers have four parts, and sequences of Arabic numerals can
                appear in three of them. In the second part, indicating a narrow subject area, and
                fourth part, indicating year of publication, sequences of numerals are treated as
                numbers and ordered according to the decimal system. In the third part, however,
                sequences of numerals are treated as sequences and ordered
                    "notationally" as in the example above (334
                before 67).
Differences in ordering demonstrate just
                    one way that multiple writing systems may use the same notation differently. For
                    example, the American English and British English writing systems both use the
                    same Latin alphabet, but impose slightly different spelling
                    rules. The Japanese writing system employs a number of notations, including
                traditional Chinese characters (kanji) as well as the Latin
                alphabet (rōmaji). Often, writing
                    systems do not share the same exact notation but have mostly overlapping
                    notations. Many European languages, for example, extend the Latin alphabet with
                    characters such as Å and
                            Ü that add additional marks,
                    known as diacritics, to the basic characters.
In organizing systems it is often necessary to
                    represent values from one writing system in another writing system that uses a
                    different notation, a process known as transliteration. 
                For example, early computer systems
                only supported the ASCII notation, so text from writing systems
                that extend the Latin alphabet had to be converted to ASCII,
                usually by removing (or sometimes transliterating) diacritics. This made the
                    non-ASCII text usable in an ASCII-based computerized organizing system, at the expense of
                information loss.
Even in modern computer systems that support Unicode, however,
                transliteration is often needed to support organizing activities by users who cannot
                read text written using its original system. The
                        Library of Congress and the American Library
                        Association provide standard procedures for transliterating text
                    from over sixty different writing systems into the (extended) Latin
                    alphabet.

8.3.3. Syntax
The examples in Example 8.5, "Basic ways of writing part of a book description." express the same
                information using different writing systems. The examples use the same notation
                    (ASCII) but differ in their 
                syntax: 
                the rules that define how characters can be
                combined into words and how words can be combined into higher-level
                    structures.

Consider the first entry: The title
                            is Die Ringe des Saturn and it has 371
                            pages. The leading capital letter and the period ending this
                        sequence of characters indicate to us that this is a sentence. This sentence
                        is one way we might use the English writing system to express two statements
                        about the book we are describing. A statement is one
                        distinct fact or piece of information. In glottic writing systems like
                        English, there is usually more than one sentence we could write to express
                        the same statement. For example, instead of it has 371
                            pages we might have written the number of pages is
                            371. English writing also enables us
                            to construct complex sentences that express more than one
                            statement.
In contrast, when we create descriptions
                        of resources in an organizing system, we generally use non-glottic writing
                        systems in which each sentence only expresses a single statement, and there
                        is just one way to write a sentence that expresses a given
                            statement. These restrictions make these writing systems less expressive,
                        but simplify their use. In particular, since there is a one-to-one
                        correspondence between sentences and statements, we can drop the distinction
                        and just talk about the statements of a description.
Now we return to our example and look at the structure of
                        the statement, The title is Die Ringe des Saturn
                            and it has 371 pages. Spaces are used to separate
                        the text into words, and English syntax defines the functions of those
                        words. The verb is in this statement functions to link
                        the word title to the phrase Die Ringe des Saturn. This
                        is typical of the kind of statements found in a resource description. Each
                        statement identifies and describes some aspect of the resource. In this
                        case, the statement attributes the value Die Ringe des
                            Saturn to the property title.
As we saw when we looked at description structures, we can
                        analyze descriptions as involving properties of resources and their
                        corresponding values or content. In a writing system like English, it is not
                        always so straightforward to determine which words refer to properties and
                        which refer to values. (This is why blobs are not ideal description
                        structures.) Writing systems designed for expressing resource descriptions,
                        on the other hand, usually define syntax that makes this determination
                        easier. In our dictionary examples above, we used an arrow character
                            → to indicate the relationship between properties
                        and values.
This ease of distinguishing properties and values comes at
                        a price, however. The syntax of English is forgiving: we can read a sentence
                        with somewhat garbled syntax such as 371 pages it has
                        and often still make out its meaning. This is usually not the case with writing systems intended for
                        expressing resource descriptions. These systems strictly define their rules
                        for how characters can be combined into higher-level structures. Structures
                        that follow the rules are well formed according to that
                        system.

Take for example the second entry in Example 8.5, "Basic ways of writing part of a book description.".
                        { book: {"title":"Die Ringe des Saturn","pages":371} }This
                        fragment is written in JSON. As explained earlier in this
                        chapter, JSON is a metamodel for structuring information
                        using lists and dictionaries. But JSON is also a writing
                        system, which borrows its syntax from JavaScript. The JSON
                        syntax uses brackets to textually represent lists [1,2,3]
                        and braces to textually represent dictionaries {title:"Die Ringe
                            des Saturn", "pages":371}. Within braces, the colon character
                            : is used to link properties with their values, much
                        as is was used in the previous example. So "pages":371 is
                        a statement assigning the value 371 to the property
                            pages.

The third fragment is written in XML.
                        <book pages="371"> <title>Die Ringe des Saturn</title> </book>Like
                            JSON, XML is a metamodel and also a
                        writing system. Here we have XML elements and attributes.
                            XML elements are textually represented as
                            tags that are marked using the special characters
                            <, > and
                            /. So, this fragment of XML consists
                        of a book element with a child element,
                            title, and a pages attribute, each
                        of which has some text content. In this case, pages="371"
                        is a statement assigning the value 371 to the property
                            pages. The difference is syntax is subtle; quotation
                        marks surround the value and equal sign = is used to assign the property to
                        its value.

The fourth is a fragment of HTML.
                        <div class="book">The title is 
<span class="title">Die Ringe des Saturn</span>
and it has <span class="pages">371 pages.</span>
</div>The
                        writing system that HTML employs is close enough to
                            XML to ignore any differences in syntax. In this
                        example, the CLASS attribute contains the property name and the property
                        value is the element content.

The fifth entry is a fragment of Turtle, one of the
                        writing systems for RDF.
                        <http://lccn.loc.gov/96103072>
<http://rdvocab.info/Elements/title> "Die Ringe des Saturn"@de ;
<http://rdvocab.info/Elements/extentOfText> "371 p." .Turtle
                        provides a syntax for writing down RDF
triples. Each triple consists
                        of a subject, predicate, and object separated by spaces. Recall that
                            RDF uses URIs to identify subjects,
                        predicates, and some objects; these URIs are written in
                        Turtle by enclosing them in angle brackets < >.
                        Triples are separated by period . characters, but triples
                        that share the same subject can be written more compactly by writing the
                        subject only once, and then writing the predicate and object of each triple,
                        separated by a semicolon ; character. This is what we see
                        in Example 8.2, "Nesting an author description within a book description": two
                        triples that share a subject.

The two fragments in Example 8.6, "Writing part of a book description in Semantic XML." demonstrate
                namespaces, terms from the Dublin Core and DocBook namespaces, and the facility with
                which XML embraces semantic encoding of description resources.
                    Example 8.6. Writing part of a book description in Semantic XML.


<book xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" dc:extent="371 p.">
<dc:title>Die Ringe des Saturn</title>
...
</book>

<book xmlns:db="http://www.docbook.org/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd">
<bookinfo>
<title>Die Ringe des Saturn</title>
<pagenums>371 p.</pagenums>...</bookinfo>
...
</book>




The first example extends the third fragment from
                                Example 8.5, "Basic ways of writing part of a book description."; the
                                    xmlns:dc="..."
                            segment is a namespace declaration, which is associating
                                dc with the quoted URI, which happens to be the Dublin Core Metadata Initiative (DCMI); the child <dc:title> element
                            and the attached dc:extent="371" tell us that the
                            corresponding values are attributable to the title and extent
                            properties, respectively, from the Dublin Core namespace. 

The next fragment employs DocBook DTD namespace; we
                            now have a <pagenums> element for which the
                            meaning is contextually obvious; the title is still a title; an extra
                            layer of markup reflects the fact that it could be metadata in the
                            source file of a book that is being edited, is in production or is on
                            your favorite tablet right now.


The two fragments in Example 8.7, "Writing part of a book description in RDFa or microdata." demonstrate RDFa and microdata formats, which
                each rely upon specific attributes to establish the type of the property values
                contained by the HTML elements. In each example, the book title is contained by a
                    <span> element. Whereas RDFa relies upon the property attribute, the microdata example employs the
                    itemprop attribute to specify that the contents of
                the element is, effectively, a "title" in exactly the same sense as we
                know that the contents of <dc:title> is a
                    "title."
Example 8.7. Writing part of a book description in RDFa or microdata.


<div class="book">The title is
<span property="http://purl.org/dc/terms/title">Die Ringe des Saturn</span>
and it has <span property="http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent">371 p.</span></div>

<div itemscope itemtype="book">The title is
<span itemprop="http://purl.org/dc/terms/title">Die Ringe des Saturn</span>
and it has <span itemprop="http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent">371 p.</span></div>
















8.4. Worlds of Description
In the previous two sections we have considered descriptions as designed
            objects with particular structures and as written documents with particular syntaxes. As
            we have seen, there are many possible choices of structure and syntax. But these choices
            are never made in isolation. Just as an architect or designer must work within the
            constraints of the existing built environment, and just as any author must work with
            existing writing systems, descriptions are always created as part of a pre-existing
                "world" over which any one of us has little control.
In the final part of this chapter, we will consider how choices of
            structure and syntax have converged historically into broad patterns of usage. For lack
            of a better term, we call these broad patterns "worlds."
"World" is not a technical term and should not be taken too literally: the
            broad areas of application sketched here have considerable overlap, and there are many
            other ways one might identify patterns of description structure and syntax. That said,
            the three worlds described here do reflect real patterns of description form that
            influence tool and technology choices. In your own work creating and managing resource
            descriptions, it is likely that you will need to think about how your descriptions fit
            into one or more of these worlds.
8.4.1. The Document Processing World
The first world we will consider is concerned primarily with the
                creation, processing and management of hybrid narrative-transactional documents such
                as instruction manuals, textbooks, or annotated medieval manuscripts (see The Document Type Spectrum). These are quite different kinds of documents,
                but they all contain a mixture of narrative text and structured data, and they all
                can be usefully modeled as tree structures. Because of these shared qualities, tools
                as different as publishing software, supply-chain management software, and scholarly
                editing software have all converged on common XML-based solutions.
                    ("The XML world" would be another appropriate name
                for the document-processing world.)
This convergence was no accident, because XML was
                designed specifically to address the problem of how to add structure and data to
                documents by "marking them up."
XML is the descendant of Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML), 
                which in turn descended from International Business Machines (IBM)'s
                Generalized Markup Language, 
                which was invented to enable the production and management of
                large-scale technical documentation. The explicitness of
                    markup makes it well-suited for representing structure and content type
                    distinctions in institutional contexts, where the scope, scale, and expected
                    lifetime of organizing systems for information implies reuse by unknown people
                    for unanticipated purposes.
As one might expect, tools and technologies in the
                document-processing world are optimized for manipulating and combining tree
                structures. A "toolchain" is set of tools intended to be used together
                to achieve some goal.
For programmers who do not to use the XML
                toolchain, other programming languages also provide libraries for working with
                    XML. This fact has led some to propose, and others to believe,
                that XML is a kind of universal format for exchanging data among
                systems. However, programmers have observed that a random XML
                Infoset does not map easily to the data structures commonly found in many
                programming languages. "Working with XML" frequently
                means translating from XML tree structures to data structures
                native to another language, usually meaning lists and dictionaries. This translation
                can be problematic and often means giving up many of the strengths of
                    XML. By the same token, there are decades more practical
                experience working with markup languages and institutional publishing than there is
                with JSON and RDF.
XML is not a universal solution for every
                possible problem. That does not mean that it is not the best solution for a wide
                variety of problems, including yours. To gauge whether your resource descriptions
                are, or ought to be, part of the document-processing world, ask yourself the
                following questions:

Do my resource descriptions
                            contain mixtures of narrative text, hypertext, structured data and a
                            variety of media formats?

Can my descriptions easily be
                            modeled using tree structures, hypertext links, and
                            transclusion?

Are the vocabularies I need
                            or want to use made available using XML
                            technologies?

Do I need to work with a body
                            of existing descriptions already encoded as
                            XML?

Do I need to interoperate
                            with processes or partners that utilize the XML
                            toolchain?

Do I need to publish my
                            resource descriptions in multiple formats from a single
                        source?

If the answer to one or more of these questions is
                    "yes," then chances are good that you are working within the
                document processing world, and you will need to become familiar with conceptualizing
                your descriptions as trees and working with them using XML
                tools.

8.4.2. The Web World
The second "world" emerged in the early 1990s with
                the creation of the World Wide Web. The web was developed to address a need for
                simple and rapid sharing of scientific data. Of course, it has grown far beyond that
                initial use case, and is now a ubiquitous infrastructure for all varieties of
                information and communication services. ("The browser world" would be
                another appropriate name for what we are calling the Web World.)
Documents, data, and services on the web
                    are conceptualized as resources, identified using Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI), and accessible through representations
                    transferred via Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). Representations are sequences of bytes, and could be
                    HTML pages, JPEG images, tabular data, or
                practically anything else transferable via HTTP. No matter what
                they are, representations transferred over the web include descriptions of
                themselves. These descriptions take the form of property-value pairs, known as
                        "HTTP headers."
The HTTP headers of web representations
                    are structured as dictionaries.
Dictionary structures appear many other places in web
                infrastructure. URIs may include a query
                component beginning with a ? character. This component is used
                for purposes such as providing query parameters to search services. The query
                component is commonly structured as a dictionary, consisting of a series of
                property-value pairs separated by the & character. For
                example, the following URI: https://www.google.com/search?q=sebald&tbs=qdr:m
includes the query component q=sebald&tbs=qdr:m.
                This is a dictionary with the properties q and
                    tbs, respectively specifying the search term and temporal
                constraints on the search.
Dictionary structures are easy to work
                    with in any programming language, and they pervade various popular frameworks
                    for programming the Web. In the programming languages used to implement
                web services, HTTP headers and query parameters are easily mapped
                to dictionary data structures native to those languages. On the client side, there
                is only one programming language that runs within all web browsers: 
                JavaScript. 
                The dictionary is the fundamental data structure within JavaScript
                as well.
Thus it is unsurprising that JSON, a
                dictionary-structured, JavaScript-based syntax, has become the de facto standard for
                application-to-application interchange of data on the web in contexts that do not
                involve business transactions. Web services providing structured data intended for
                programmatic use can make that data available as JSON, which is
                well-suited for use either by JavaScript programs running within browsers, or by
                programs written in other languages running outside of browsers (e.g., smart phone
                applications).
It is now commonly accepted that there are useful differences of
                approach between the document-processing world and the Web World. This does not mean
                that the two worlds do not have significant overlaps. Some very important web
                representation types are XML-based, such as the Atom syndication
                format. Trees will continue to be the structure of choice for web representations
                that consist primarily of narrative rather than transactional data. But for
                structured descriptions that are intended to be accessed and manipulated on the Web,
                dictionary structures currently rule.
To gauge whether your resource descriptions are or ought to be
                part of the Web world, ask yourself the following questions:

Is the web the primary
                            platform upon which I will be making my descriptions
                        available?

Are my resource descriptions
                            primarily structured, transaction-oriented data?

Can my descriptions easily be
                            modeled as lists of properties and values
                        (dictionaries)?

Are the vocabularies I need
                            or want to use made available primarily using HTML
                            technologies such as microdata or microformats?

Do I need to make my
                            descriptions easily usable for use within a wide array of programming
                            languages?

If the answer to one or more of these questions is
                    "yes," then chances are good that you are working within the Web
                World, and you will need to become familiar with conceptualizing your descriptions
                as dictionaries and working with them using programming languages such as
                JavaScript.

8.4.3. The Semantic Web World
The last world we consider is still somewhat of a possible world,
                at least in comparison with the previous two. While the document processing world
                and the web world are well-established, the Semantic Web world is only starting to
                emerge, despite having been envisioned over a decade ago.
The vision
                    of a Semantic
                            Web world builds upon the web world, but adds
                    some further prescriptions and constraints for how to structure descriptions.
                    The Semantic Web world unifies the concept of a resource as it has been
                    developed in this book, with the web notion of a resource as anything with a
                        URI. On the Semantic Web, anything being described must
                    have a URI. Furthermore, the descriptions must be structured as
                    graphs, adhering to the RDF metamodel and relating resources to
                    one another via their URIs. Advocates of Linked Data further
                    prescribe that those descriptions must be made available as representations
                    transferred over HTTP.
This is a departure from the web world. The web world is also structured
                around URIs, but it does not require that every resource being
                described have a URI. For example, in the web world a list of
                bibliographic descriptions of books by W.G. Sebald might be published at a specific URI, but the
                individual books themselves might not have URIs. In the Semantic
                Web world, in addition to the list having a URIs, each book would have a
                    URI too, in addition to whatever other identifiers it might
                    have.
Making an HTTP
                    request to an individual book URI may return a graph-structured
                    description of that book, if best practices for Linked Data are being
                    followed. This, too, is a departure from the web world, which is
                agnostic about the form representations or descriptions of resources should take
                (although as we have seen, dictionary structures are often favored on the web when
                the clients consuming those descriptions are computer programs). On the Semantic
                Web, all descriptions are structured as RDF graphs. Each
                description graph links to other description graphs by referring to these related
                resources using their URIs. Thus, at least in theory, all
                description graphs on the Semantic Web are linked into a single massive graph
                structure. In practice, however, it is far from clear that this is an achievable, or
                even a desirable, goal.
Although the Semantic Web is in its infancy, a significant number of
                resource descriptions have already been made available in accordance with the
                principles outlined above. Descriptions published according to these principles are
                often referred to as "Linked Data." Prominent examples include:
                DBpedia, a graph of descriptions of subjects of Wikipedia articles; the Virtual International Authority File (VIAF), a graph of descriptions of names collected from
                various national libraries' name authority files; GeoNames, a
                graph of descriptions of places; and Data.gov.uk, a graph of descriptions of public
                data made available by the UK government.
Despite the growing amount of Linked
                    Data, tools for working with graph-structured data are still immature in
                    comparison to the XML toolchain and Web programming
                    languages. Although there is an XML syntax for
                    RDF, using the XML toolchain to work with
                graph-structured data is generally a bad idea. And just as most programming
                languages do not support natively working with tree structures, most do not support
                natively working with graph structures either. Storing and querying graph-structured
                data efficiently requires a graph database or triple
                store.
Still, the Semantic Web world has much to recommend it. Having a
                common way of identifying resources (the URI) and a single shared
                metamodel (RDF) for all resource descriptions makes it much easier
                to combine descriptions from different sources. To gauge whether your resource
                descriptions are or ought to be part of the Semantic Web world, ask yourself the
                following questions:

Is the web the primary
                            platform upon which I will be making my descriptions
                        available?

Is it important that I be
                            able to easily and freely aggregate the elements of my descriptions in
                            different ways and to combine them with descriptions created by
                            others?

Are my descriptions best
                            modeled as graph structures?

Have the vocabularies I need
                            or want to use been created using RDF?

Do I need to work with a body
                            of existing descriptions that have been published as Linked
                            Data?

If the answer to one or more of these questions is
                    "yes," then chances are good that you should be working within the
                Semantic Web world, and you ought to become familiar with conceptualizing your
                descriptions as graphs and working with them using Semantic Web tools.













Self-Review

Question









Answer




8.5. Key Points in Chapter Eight
Switch to Quiz Mode
What are two perspectives on forming
                        resource descriptions?

We can approach the problem of how to form resource
                        descriptions from two perspectives: structuring and writing.
See §8.1, "Introduction"

Are metamodels
                        domain-specific?

Metamodels describe structures commonly found in resource
                        descriptions and other information resources, regardless of the specific
                        domain.
See §8.2, "Structuring Descriptions"

What do blobs, sets, lists,
                        dictionaries, trees, and graphs have in common?

Blobs, sets, lists, dictionaries, trees, and graphs are
                        all kinds of structures that can be used to form resource
                        descriptions.
See §8.2.1, "Kinds of Structures"

What is a list?

A list, like a set, is a collection
                        of items with an additional constraint: their items are
                            ordered.
See §8.2.1.3, "Lists"

What is a dictionary?

A dictionary, also known as a
                                map
                        or an associative
                                array, is a set of property-value pairs or
                            entries.
See §8.2.1.4, "Dictionaries"

What is a nested dictionary?

Nested dictionaries form a tree.
See §8.2.1.4, "Dictionaries"

What is a tree?

Trees consist of nodes joined by edges.
See §8.2.1.5, "Trees"

What are the two kinds of data
                        structures used by JSON?

JSON consists of two kinds of structures:
                        lists (called arrays in JavaScript) and dictionaries
                        (called objects in JavaScript).
See §8.2.2.1, "JSON"

What is the XML Infoset?

The XML Infoset is a tree structure,
                        where each node of the tree is defined to be an information
                            item of a particular type.
See §8.2.2.2, "XML Information Set"

What is the benefit of a data
                        schema?

Using schemas to define data representation formats is a
                        good practice that facilitates shared understanding and contributes to
                        long-term maintainability.
See §8.2.2.2, "XML Information Set"

What is RDF?

The RDF metamodel is a directed graph, so
                        it identifies one node (the one from which the edge is pointing) as the
                            subject of the triple, and the other node (the one to which
                        the edge is pointing) as its object. The edge is referred to as the
                            predicate or (as we have been saying)
                            property of the triple.
See §8.2.2.3, "RDF"

What is an encoding scheme?

An "encoding scheme" is a specialized writing
                        system or syntax for particular types of values. Encoding schemes specify
                        how to textually represent information.
See §8.3.1, "Notations"

What is a writing system?

A writing system employs notations,
                        and adds a set of rules for using them.
See §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"

How could one notation be used in
                        multiple writing systems?

Differences in ordering demonstrate just one way that
                        multiple writing systems may use the same notation differently.
See §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"

What is syntax?

Syntax is the rules that define how characters can be
                        combined into words and how words can be combined into higher-level
                        structures.
See §8.3.3, "Syntax"

What are the concerns of the document
                        processing world?

The document processing world is concerned primarily with
                        the creation, processing and management of hybrid narrative-transactional
                        documents.
See §8.4.1, "The Document Processing World"

How are resources conceptualized in
                        the Web world?

In the web world, documents, data, and services are
                        conceptualized as resources, identified using Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI), and accessible through representations
                        transferred via the Hypertext Transfer Protocol
                        (HTTP).
See §8.4.2, "The Web World"

What is a resource in Semantic Web
                        terms?

The Semantic Web world unifies the concept of a resource
                        as it has been developed in this book, with the web notion of a resource as
                        anything with a URI. Descriptions must be structured as
                        graphs, adhering to the RDF metamodel and relating
                            resources to one another
                        via their URIs.
See §8.4.3, "The Semantic Web World"

We can approach the problem of how to form resource
                        descriptions from two perspectives: structuring and writing.
See §8.1, "Introduction"

Metamodels describe structures commonly found in resource
                        descriptions and other information resources, regardless of the specific
                        domain.
See §8.2, "Structuring Descriptions"

Blobs, sets, lists, dictionaries, trees, and graphs are
                        all kinds of structures that can be used to form resource
                        descriptions.
See §8.2.1, "Kinds of Structures"

A list, like a set, is a collection
                        of items with an additional constraint: their items are
                            ordered.
See §8.2.1.3, "Lists"

A dictionary, also known as a
                                map
                        or an associative
                                array, is a set of property-value pairs or
                            entries.
See §8.2.1.4, "Dictionaries"

Nested dictionaries form a tree.
See §8.2.1.4, "Dictionaries"

Trees consist of nodes joined by edges.
See §8.2.1.5, "Trees"

JSON consists of two kinds of structures:
                        lists (called arrays in JavaScript) and dictionaries
                        (called objects in JavaScript).
See §8.2.2.1, "JSON"

The XML Infoset is a tree structure,
                        where each node of the tree is defined to be an information
                            item of a particular type.
See §8.2.2.2, "XML Information Set"

Using schemas to define data representation formats is a
                        good practice that facilitates shared understanding and contributes to
                        long-term maintainability.
See §8.2.2.2, "XML Information Set"

The RDF metamodel is a directed graph, so
                        it identifies one node (the one from which the edge is pointing) as the
                            subject of the triple, and the other node (the one to which
                        the edge is pointing) as its object. The edge is referred to as the
                            predicate or (as we have been saying)
                            property of the triple.
See §8.2.2.3, "RDF"

An "encoding scheme" is a specialized writing
                        system or syntax for particular types of values. Encoding schemes specify
                        how to textually represent information.
See §8.3.1, "Notations"

A writing system employs notations,
                        and adds a set of rules for using them.
See §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"

Differences in ordering demonstrate just one way that
                        multiple writing systems may use the same notation differently.
See §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"

Syntax is the rules that define how characters can be
                        combined into words and how words can be combined into higher-level
                        structures.
See §8.3.3, "Syntax"

The document processing world is concerned primarily with
                        the creation, processing and management of hybrid narrative-transactional
                        documents.
See §8.4.1, "The Document Processing World"

In the web world, documents, data, and services are
                        conceptualized as resources, identified using Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI), and accessible through representations
                        transferred via the Hypertext Transfer Protocol
                        (HTTP).
See §8.4.2, "The Web World"

The Semantic Web world unifies the concept of a resource
                        as it has been developed in this book, with the web notion of a resource as
                        anything with a URI. Descriptions must be structured as
                        graphs, adhering to the RDF metamodel and relating
                            resources to one another
                        via their URIs.
See §8.4.3, "The Semantic Web World"












Chapter 9. Interactions with ResourcesVivien PetrasRobert J. GlushkoIan MacFarlandKaren Joy NomorosaJ.J.M. EkaterinHyunwoo ParkSean Marimpietri
9.1. Introduction
Picture a dim room in the basement of a Detroit police station, lined
            with metal shelves: the shelves contain boxes and boxes of cold case files, evidence
            meticulously logged and categorized for no one to look at, documenting murders that will
            never be solved. Or the library of a small-town historical society in New Jersey:
            struggling with budget cuts, the board of directors has been forced to close its doors,
            locking its treasures inside, carefully curated and preserved but inaccessible to the
            public. Or a valuable data store encoded in an orphaned storage format: business records
            in a legacy database system that won't run on modern computers, census data on
            proprietary magnetic tape reels from the 1970s, your unfinished novel on a series of
            eight-inch floppy disks. You know the data is there, but you can't interact with
            it.
An organizing system without interactions is a sad one indeed.
Interactions are the answer to two of the fundamental questions we
            posed back in Chapter 1: why and when are the
            resources organized?
The question of "why?" has been in the background (and
            often the foreground) of every chapter in this book thus far; whenever we select a
            resource for inclusion in an organizing system, describe it, or arrange it according to
            an organizing principle, we have an interaction in mind. We include a resource in our
            system because our users will need it; we assign a resource to one or more categories to
            help our users find it, understand it, and connect it with other resources in a
            meaningful way. 
In this chapter we will pivot from design for interactions to the
            design of interactions—and to do this we must pause to consider the question of
                "when?" In §1.3.5, we
            contrasted organization done "on the way in" with that done "on the
                way out," but this distinction isn't always a particularly relevant one.
            Consider a bookshelf: if you don't organize its resources on the way in (i.e., when you
            put a book on the shelf), you can't really organize them on the way out; you just have a
            disorganized bookshelf. When the time comes to retrieve a book, you'll have to employ a
            brute-force linear search algorithm—reading every spine until you find the one you want,
            and it won't make the remaining books on the shelf any more organized.
But digital resources and networked organizing systems are an entirely
            different story. In fact, we argue that they blur the traditional boundary between the
            academic disciplines of "information organization" and "information
                retrieval"; with the World Wide Web, ubiquitous digital information, and
            effectively unlimited processing, storage, and communication capability driven by cloud
            computing architecture and Moore's law, billions of people create and browse websites,
            blog, tag, tweet, and upload and download content of all media types without thinking
                "I am organizing now" or "I am retrieving now." When
            people use their smartphones to search the web or run applications, location information
            transmitted from their phone is used to filter and reorganize the information they
            retrieve. Arranging results to make them fit the user's location is a kind of
            computational curation, but because it takes place quickly and automatically we hardly
            notice it. Likewise, almost every application that once seemed predominantly about
            information retrieval is now increasingly combined with activities and functions that
            most would consider to be information organization.
Thus we come to the question of when a system's resources are
            organized: we may apply the techniques of computational information retrieval to a set
            of resources that simply aren't organized the way we need them to be in order to support
            our desired interaction. Maybe the system was designed poorly or for a different purpose
            than the one we are pursuing; maybe we are attempting to collect or aggregate resources
            from multiple organizing systems, each of which has its own separate purposes and design
            flaws. Regardless of the reasons, what we are essentially doing is reorganizing these
            resources on the fly, or "on the way out," following many of the same
            principles and procedures we've covered in the preceding eight chapters of this book. 
Most Common Museum Interaction


Because museums often
                            contain extremely rare or valuable resources that do not
                            circulate, their most popular items are mobbed by visitors. The
                            crowding often makes it impossible to get a good look at the
                            rare item. This ironic situation is typified by the crowd
                            control cordon that creates a 20-foot barrier around
                            La Gioconda (aka "Mona
                                Lisa") at the Louvre museum in Paris.
(Photo by R. Glushko.)



The fundamental interaction of any organizing system is accessing
            resources or resource descriptions, whether physically or digitally. Sometimes we must
            combine or merge resources or resource descriptions to access them effectively; this
            poses numerous strategy, design, and implementation challenges, as producers often use
            different identifiers, description or cataloging formats, and practices for similar
            resources. Different service providers use different technologies, have different
            information policies, and follow different processes developed in their separate
            organizing systems. 
Some organizing systems have the power to determine the description
            standards that others must use. Walmart, the largest retailer in the United States, has
            devised an organizing system for its supply chain that supports access and movement of
            physical goods with maximal efficiency and effectiveness. This system saves the
            corporation money on inventory management and distribution, but to maximize savings,
            Walmart requires its suppliers to employ the same data model, follow company-set
            standards, and adopt new technologies such as bar codes and RFID tags that support the
            highly efficient interactions it requires.
Other organizing systems must adapt to whatever their counterparts
            develop. Online retailer Shopstyle.com presents a typical ecommerce interface, allowing
            shoppers to browse a multitude of fashion and beauty products organized into familiar
            categories. But behind the scenes, Shopstyle is aggregating the catalogs of more than
            250 online stores and providing a seamless access interaction for all their merchandise.
            It doesn't actually sell anything: it directs shoppers to those third-party stores to
            make their purchases. Rather than moving physical resources like Walmart, Shopstyle's
            most important interactions involve moving and combining digital resource
            descriptions.
Browsing Merchandise Catalogs


Shopstyle.com provides a
                            transparent interface to the catalogs of hundreds of other online
                            clothing retailers, aggregating their listings to allow users to
                            browse them all from a single page.
(Screenshot by
                            Ian MacFarland.)



Still others choose to abide by what a standard-setting body decides,
            or participate in laborious, democratic processes to align their organizing practices
            and interactions. Libraries and museums are the classic examples of this. The most important
            interaction in a library, of course, is borrowing: checking out a book to use it off the
            premises, and checking it back in when you're done. Patrons search descriptions in a
            catalog to find books on a certain topic, by a certain author, or with a certain title,
            and access them by fetching them from the stacks or asking a librarian to retrieve them.
            As institutions that serve the public interest, libraries adhere to standards and
            democratic processes to ensure consistent and familiar user experiences for patrons, but
            also to enable powerful search interactions such as union catalogs, where resource
            descriptions from multiple libraries are merged before they are offered for search.
            Union catalogs allow patrons to find out with a single search whether a resource is
            available from any library that is accessible to them.
Museums serve the public interest as well, and employ standards and
            democratic procedures for similar reasons as libraries, but their visitors generally
            look at their resources rather than borrowing them. Museums enable people to discover or
            experience resources by exhibiting artifacts in creative contexts, and when they
            implement this interaction digitally, as in a website, they vastly increase the
            opportunity for public access. Virtual collections are accessible to remote patrons who
            are unable to visit the physical museum, and they allow access to resources that are not
            currently on view.
The digitization of museum resources also allows visitors to
            experience them from a perspective that might not be possible in a physical museum. For
            example, in Google's Art Project, users can zoom in to view fine details of digitized
            paintings. Museums are starting to leverage technology and the popularity
            of Web 2.0 features such as tagging and social networking 
            to attract new audiences.
Implemented in 2004, the MuseumFinland project aims to provide a
            portal for publishing heterogeneous museum collections on the Semantic Web. Institutions such as the Getty Information Institute and
            the International Committee for Documentation of the International Council of
                Museums have worked on standards that ensure worldwide consistency in how
            museums manage information about their collections.
How can these differences be handled in order to provide seamless
            interactions within and across organizing systems? Which requirements have to be met in
            order to provide the interactions that are desired? How are different interaction types
            implemented? Finally, how can the quality of interactions be evaluated with respect to
            their requirements? These are the main questions for interactions that we will try to
            answer.
This chapter concentrates on the processes that develop interactions
            based on leveraging the resources of organizing systems to provide valuable services to
            their users (human or computational agents). It will discuss the determination of the
            appropriate interactions, the organization of resources for interactions, the
            implementation of interactions, and their evaluation and adaptation. Although the
            fundamental questions pertain to all types of organizing systems, this chapter focuses
            on systems that use computers to satisfy their goals.












9.2. Determining Interactions
Creating a strategy for successfully implementing
                interactions involves an intricate balance between the resources, the organizing
                system that arranges and manages them, its producers, and its intended users or
                consumers.
The design of interactions is driven by user requirements and
                their impact on the choices made in the implementation process. It is
            constrained by resource and technical system properties and by social and legal
            requirements. Determining the scope and scale of interactions requires a careful
            analysis of these individual factors, their combination, and the consequences thereof. 
Stop and Think: Constraint vs flexibility
Think of an information organization project you were involved in. Can you
                recall ways in which you were constrained in representing an idea by the
                organizational system the project was implemented with? In what ways was the
                project negatively affected by the implementation? In what ways might the
                constraint have had a positive effect?

It is useful to distinguish decisions that involve choices, where
            multiple feasible alternatives exist, from decisions that involve constraints, where
            design choices have been eliminated or rendered infeasible by previous ones. The goal
            when creating an organizing system is to make design decisions that preserve subsequent
            choices or that create constraints that impose design decisions that would have been
            preferred anyway.
9.2.1. User Requirements
Users (human or computational agents) search or navigate
                resources in organizing systems not just to identify
                them, but also to obtain and further use the selected resources (e.g., read, cluster, annotate, buy, copy, distribute, adapt, etc.). How resources are used and by whom affects
                how much of the resource or its description is exposed, across which channels it is
                offered, and the precision and accuracy of the interaction.
An organizing system should enable interactions that allow users to achieve their goals.
The more abstract and intermediated the
                    interaction between a user and an organizing system
                    becomes, the more precisely the requirements must be expressed.
                User requirements can
                be stated or implied, depending on the sophistication and functional capabilities of
                the system.
In a closet, which is a personal
                    organizing system for physical resources, the person
                    searching with an intent to find a particular shirt might think, "Where is
                        my yellow Hawaiian shirt?" but does not need to
                    communicate the search criteria to anyone else in an explicit way. In a
                business or institutional organizing system, however, the user needs to describe the
                desired resource and interact with the system to select from candidate resources.
                This interaction might involve a human intermediary like a
                    salesperson or reference librarian, or
                a computational one like a search engine.
A user's information need usually
                    determines the kind and content of resources required. User information
                needs are most often expressed in search queries (whatever is typed into a search
                box) or manifest themselves in the selection of one or more of the system categories
                that are offered for browsing. Queries can be as simple as a few keywords or very
                complex and specialized, employing different search fields or operators; they may
                even be expressed in a query language by expert users. Techniques such as spelling correction, query
                    expansion, and suggestion assist users
                in formulating queries. Techniques like breadcrumb navigation and faceted
                    filtering assist users in browsing an organizing system's category
                system. Some systems allow the query to be expressed in natural language and then
                transform it into a description that is easier for the system to process. Queries
                for non-textual information like photos or videos are typically expressed as text,
                but some systems compute descriptions from non-textual queries such as images or
                audio files. For example, a user can hum a tune or draw or drag an image into an
                image query box.
Google Image Search


Google's Image Search tool can accept an image file as an input 
                                rather than text, 
                                and will find visually similar images 
                                as well as making its best guess of the image's subject matter.
(Screenshot 
                                by Ian MacFarland.)



Organizing systems should plan
                    for interactions based on non-purposeful user behavior.
A user who does not have a particular resource need in mind
                    might interact with an organizing system to see what it contains or to be
                    entertained or educated. Imagine a user going to a museum to avoid the
                heat outside. Their requirement is to be out of the heat
                    and—possibly—to see interesting
                things. 
                
                A visitor to a zoo might go there to view a specific animal, but most of
                the time, visitors follow a more or less random path among the zoo's resources.
                Similarly, web surfing is random, non-information-need-driven behavior. This type of
                requirement cannot be satisfied by providing search capabilities alone; other
                interaction types (e.g., browsing, suggestions) must be provided as well.
Lastly, not all users are human beings, typing in
                    search queries or browsing through
                    catalogs. An organizing system should plan for interaction scenarios
                where computational agents access the system via APIs (application programming interfaces), which require heavily
                standardized access procedures and resource descriptions in order to enable
                interactions.

9.2.2. Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints
An important constraint for interaction design choices is the
                access policies imposed by the producers of organizing systems, as already described in §2.4.3, "Access Policies". If resources or their descriptions are
                    restricted, interactions may not be able to use certain properties and therefore
                    cannot be supported.
Inter-organizational or socio-political constraints are imposed when
                certain parties in an interaction, or even producers of an organizing system, can
                exert power over other parties and therefore control the nature of the interaction
                (or even the nature of the resource descriptions). We can distinguish different
                types of constraints: Information and economic power asymmetry
Some organizations are able to
                                    impose their requirements for interactions and their resource
                                    description formats upon their clients or customers.
                                For example, Google and Apple
                                each have the power to control the extent of interoperability
                                attainable in products, services, or applications that utilize their
                                numerous platforms through mandated APIs and the
                                process by which third-party applications are approved. The
                                asymmetry between these dominant players and the myriad of smaller
                                entities providing peripheral support, services, or components can
                                result in de facto
                                standards that may pose significant burden for small businesses and
                                reduce overall competition.
Standards
Industry-wide or
                                    community standards can be essential in enabling
                                    interoperability between systems, applications, and devices. A
                                    standard interface describes the data formats and protocols to
                                    which systems should conform.
Not adhering to standards complicates the merging of
                                resources from different organizing systems. Challenges to standardization include
                                    organizational inertia; closed policies, processes, or
                                    development groups; intellectual property; credentialing; lack
                                    of specifications; competing standards; high implementation
                                    costs; lack of conformance metrics; lack of clarity or
                                    awareness; and abuse of standards as trade
                                barriers.
Public policy
Beyond businesses and standards-setting
                                organizations, the government sector wields substantial influence
                                over the implementation and success of possible interactions in
                                organizing systems. As institutions with large and inalienable
                                constituents, governments and governmental entities have similar
                                influences as large businesses due to their size and substantial
                                impact over society at large. Different forms of government around
                                the world, ranging from centrally planned autocracy to loosely
                                organized nation-states, can have far-reaching consequences in terms
                                of how resource description policies are designed. Laws and regulations regarding data privacy
                                    prevent organizing systems from recording certain user data,
                                    therefore prohibiting interactions based on this
                                    information.

Stop and Think: Standards
It is easy to take standards for granted, but without them our lives would
                    run less smoothly because many products and services would not work very well or
                    even be dangerous to use. If you search for the phrase "ISO
                        Standard" along with almost anything, there is a good chance that you
                    will find something. Try "currency,"
"food,"
"sunglasses,"
"tea,"
"water,"
"wine," and then a few of your own. 

Even within the same firm or organization,
                    constraints on interaction design may result from contradictory policies for
                    organizing systems or even require the implementation of separate, disjoint
                    systems that cannot be integrated without additional investment. Siloed business
                    functions may be resistant to the merging of resources or resource descriptions
                    in order to gain competitive advantage or command resources over other business
                    functions.
Often characterized by different kinds of value contribution,
                different policies, processes, and practices, organizational units must clearly
                define and prioritize different interaction goals, align and coordinate processes,
                and build collaboration capabilities to achieve a high level of interoperability
                within the organizing system or between different organizing systems in the
                organization.
In addition to information exchange, organizational
                interoperability also aims to provide services that are widely available, easily
                identifiable, and accessible across the enterprise.
Nevertheless, inter-organizational constraints are inherently less
                deterministic than intra-organizational ones, because it is possible that a
                decision-maker with broad authority can decide that some interaction is important
                enough to warrant the change of institutional policies, formats, or even category
                systems. See §6.2.3, "Institutional Categories".)
Regulatory Constraints: Right to be Forgotten
A controversial idea known as the "right to be forgotten" gained
                    the force of law in the European Union in May 2014 after the
                    EU's highest court ruled that people could ask search
                    engines such as Google, which dominates the European market,
                    to remove certain kinds of personal information from their search
                    results.
The ruling had its foundations in the EU's 1995 Data
                    Protection Directive, a data retention policy crafted in a time before the
                    dominance of the Internet and search engines. While many privacy advocates
                    hailed it as a victory, others in the technology and media firms have decried it
                    as censorship. Either way, it has highlighted the need for the European
                        Commission to update and modernize its data policy; a proposal has
                    been before the European Parliament since 2012, and plans for
                    its adoption were underway as of summer 2014.
(Source: EC
fact sheet on the "right to be forgotten" ruling.)
                













9.3. Reorganizing Resources for Interactions
Once the scope and range of interactions is defined according to
            requirements and constraints, the resources and the technology of the organizing
            system have to be arranged to enable the implementation of the desired
            interactions.
Commonly, interactions are determined at the beginning of a
            development process of the organizing system. It follows that most required resource
            descriptions (which properties of a resource are documented in an organizing system)
            need to be clarified at the beginning of the development process as well; that is,
            resource descriptions are determined based on the desired interactions that an
            organizing system should support. Most of these processes have been described in detail
            in Chapter 4, Chapter 5 and Chapter 8.
Resources from different organizing systems are
            often aggregated to be accessed within one larger organizing system (warehouses,
            portals, search engines, union catalogs, cross-brand retailers), which requires
            resources and resource descriptions to be transformed in order to adapt to the new
            organizing system with its extended interaction requirements. Elsewhere, legacy systems often need to be updated to accommodate new
            standards, technologies, and interactions (e.g, mobile interfaces for digital
            libraries). That means that the necessary resources and resource descriptions for an
            interaction need to be identified, and, if necessary, changes have to be made in the
            description of the resources. Sometimes, resources are merged
                or transformed in order to perform new interactions.
9.3.1. Identifying and Describing Resources for Interactions
Individual and collection resource
                    descriptions need to be carefully considered in order to record the necessary
                    information for the designed interactions.
(See Chapter 8.) The type of interaction determines whether new properties need to
                be derived or computed with the help of external factors and whether these
                properties will be represented permanently in the organizing system (e.g., an
                extended topical description added due to a user comment) or created on the fly
                whenever a transaction is executed (e.g., a frequency count).
Determining which resources or resource descriptions will be used
                in an interaction is simple when all resources are included (e.g., in a simple
                search interaction over all resources in a data warehouse). Sometimes resources need
                to be identified according to more selective criteria such as resources exhibiting a
                certain property (e.g., all restaurants in your neighborhood with four stars on
                    Yelp in an advanced search interaction).

9.3.2. Transforming Resources for Interactions
When an organizing system and its
                    interactions are designed with resources or resource descriptions from legacy
                    systems with outdated formats or from multiple organizing systems or when the
                    new organizing systems has a different purpose and requires different resource
                    properties, resources and their descriptions need to be transformed.
                The processing and transformation steps required to produce the expected
                modification can be applied at different layers:
Infrastructure or notation transformation
When resources are aggregated, the organizing systems
                            must have a common basic infrastructure to communicate with one another
                            and speak the same language. This means that participating systems must
                            have a common set of communication protocols and an agreed upon way of
                            representing information in digital formats, i.e., a notation (§8.3.1), such as the Unicode encoding scheme.
Writing system transformation
During a writing system transformation (Chapter 8), the syntax or
                                vocabulary—also called the data exchange
                                format—of the resource description will be
                            changed to conform to another model, e.g., when library records are
                            mapped from the MARC21 standard to 
                            the Dublin Core 
                            format in order to be aggregated, or when information in
                            a business information system is transformed into an
                                EDI or XML format so that it can
                            be sent to another firm. Sometimes customized vocabularies are used to represent
                            certain types of properties. These vocabularies were probably introduced
                            to reduce errors or ambiguity or abbreviate common organizational
                            resource properties. These customized vocabularies need to be explained
                            and agreed upon by organizations combining resources to prevent
                            interoperability problems.
Semantic transformation
Agreeing on a category or classification system (Chapter 6 & Chapter 7) is crucial so that
                            organizing systems agree semantically—that is, so
                            that resource properties and descriptions share not only technology but
                            also meaning. For example, because the US Census has often changed its
                            system of race categories, it is difficult to compare data from
                            different censuses without some semantic transformation to align the
                                categories.
Resource or resource description transformation
Resources or resource descriptions are often directly
                            transformed, as when they are converted to another file format. In
                            computer-based interactions like search engines, text resources are
                            often pre-processed to remove some of the ambiguity inherent in natural
                            language. These steps, collectively called text
                                processing, include decoding, filtering, normalization,
                            stopword elimination, and stemming. (See the sidebar, Text Processing).

Text Processing
DecodingA
                                    digital resource is first a sequence of bits. Decoding
                                    transforms those bits into characters according to the encoding
                                    scheme used, extracting the text from its stored form.
                                (See §8.3.1, "Notations".)FilteringIf a text is encapsulated by formatting or non-semantic
                                    markup, these characters are removed because this information
                                    is rarely used as the basis of further
                                interactions.TokenizationSegments the stream of characters (in
                                    an encoding scheme, a space is also a character) into textual
                                    components, usually words. In English, a simple rule-based
                                    system can separate words using spaces. However, punctuation
                                    makes things more complicated. For example, periods at the end
                                    of sentences should be removed, but periods in numbers should
                                    not. Other languages introduce other problems for tokenization;
                                    in Chinese, a space does not mark the divisions between
                                    individual concepts.NormalizationNormalization removes superficial differences in
                                    character sequences, for example, by transforming all
                                    capitalized characters into lower-case. More complicated
                                    normalization operations include the removal of accents,
                                    hyphens, or diacritics and merging different forms of acronyms
                                    (e.g., U.N. and UN are both
                                    normalized to UN).Stopword eliminationStopwords are those words in a language that occur very
                                        frequently and are not very semantically
                                        expressive. Stopwords are usually articles,
                                    pronouns, prepositions, or conjunctions. Since they occur in
                                    every text, they can be removed because they cannot distinguish
                                    them. Of course, in some cases, removing stopwords might remove
                                    semantically important phrases (e.g., "To be or not to
                                        be").StemmingThese
                                    processing steps normalize inflectional and derivational
                                    variations in terms, e.g., by removing the "-ed"
                                    from verbs in the past tense. This homogenization can be done by
                                    following rules (stemming) or by using dictionaries
                                    (lemmatization). Rule-based stemming algorithms are easy to
                                    implement, but can result in wrongly normalized word groups, for
                                    example when "university" and
                                        "universe" are both stemmed to
                                        "univers."

9.3.2.1. Transforming Resources from Multiple or Legacy Organizing Systems
The traditional approach to enabling heterogeneous organizing
                    systems to be accessed together has been to fully integrate them, which has
                    allowed the "unrestricted sharing of data and business processes among any
                        connected applications and data sources" in the
                        organization. This can be a strategic approach to improving the management of
                    resources, resource descriptions, and organizing systems as a whole, especially
                    when organizations have disparate systems and redundant information spread
                    across different groups and departments. However, it can also be a costly
                    approach, as integration points may be numerous, with vastly different
                    technologies needed to get one system to integrate with another. Maintenance
                    also becomes an issue, as changes in one system may entail changes in all
                    systems integrating with it.
Planning the transformation of
                        resources from different organizing systems to be merged in an aggregation
                        is called data mapping or alignment. In this
                    process, aspects of the description layers (most often writing system or
                    semantics) are compared and matched between two or more organizing systems. The
                    relationship between each component may be unidirectional or
                        bidirectional. In addition, resource properties and values that are semantically
                    equivalent might have different names (the vocabulary problem of §3.4.2.1). The purpose of mapping may
                    vary from allowing simple exchanges of resource descriptions, to enabling access
                    to longitudinal data, to facilitating standardized reporting. The preservation of version histories of resource description
                    elements and relations in both systems is vital for verifying the validity of
                    the data map.
Similar to mapping, a straightforward approach to transformation is the use of crosswalks, which
                        are equivalence tables that relate resource description elements, semantics,
                        and writing systems from one organizing system to those of
                        another.
Crosswalks not only enable systems with different
                        resource descriptions to interchange information in real-time, but are also
                        used by third-party systems, such as harvesters and search engines to
                        generate union catalogs and perform queries on multiple systems as if they
                        were one consolidated system.
As the number of
                    organizing systems increases, crosswalks and
                    mappings become increasingly impractical
                    if each pair of organizing systems requires a separate crosswalk. A
                    more efficient approach would be the use of one vocabulary or format as a
                    switching mechanism (also called a pivot or hub language)
                    for all other vocabularies to map towards. Another possibility, which is often used in asymmetric power
                    relationships between organizing systems, is to force all systems to adhere to
                    the format that is used by the most powerful party.

9.3.2.2. Modes of Transformation
The conceptual relationships between
                    different descriptions can be mapped out manually when creating simple maps.
                    This, however, becomes more difficult as maps become more complex, due to the
                    number of properties being mapped or when there are more structural or
                    granularity issues to consider.

9.3.2.3. Granularity and Abstraction
Within writing system and semantic transformations, issues of
                    granularity and level of
                    abstraction (§4.3.1, "Determining the Scope and Focus" and §6.4.1, "Category Abstraction and Granularity") pose the most challenges to
                    cross-organizing system interoperability.
                     Granularity refers to the
                        level of detail or precision for a specific information resource property.
                        For instance, the postal address of a particular location might be
                        represented as several different data items, including the number, street
                        name, city, state, country and postal code (a high-granularity model). It
                        might also be represented in one single line including all of the
                        information above (a low-granularity model). While it is easy to
                    create the complete address by aggregating the different information components
                    from the high-granularity model, it is not as easy to decompose the
                    low-granularity model into more specific information components.
This does not mean, however, that a high-granularity model is always
                    the best choice, especially if the context of use does not require it, as there
                    are corresponding tradeoffs in terms of efficiency and speed in assembling and
                    processing the resource information.
                    (See the sidebar, AccuWeather Request Granularity)
The level of abstraction is the degree to which a resource
                    description is abstracted from the concrete use case in order to fit a wider
                    range of resources. For example, many countries have an address field called
                    state, but in some countries, a similar regional
                    division is called province. In order to accommodate both
                    concepts, we can abstract from the original concrete concepts and establish a
                    more abstract description of administrative region. Granularity and abstraction differences can occur at every
                        resource property layer when resources need to be transformed; therefore,
                        they need to be recognized and analyzed at every layer.
AccuWeather Request Granularity
Requests for AccuWeather data have exploded in the last
                        years, due to automated requests from mobile devices to keep weather apps
                        updated. The company has dealt with this challenge by truncating the
                        GPS coordinates sent by the mobile device when it
                        requests weather data (a transformation to lower granularity). If the
                        request with the truncated coordinates is identical to one recently made, a
                        cached version of the content is served, resulting in 300 million to 500
                        million fewer requests a day.


9.3.2.4. Accuracy of Transformations
Automatic
                            mapping tools can only be as accurate as
                        the specifications and criteria that are included in the mapping guidelines.
                        Intellectual checks and tests performed by humans are almost always
                        necessary to validate the accuracy
of the transformation. Because description systems vary
                    in expressive power and complexity, challenges to transformations may arise from
                    differences in semantic definitions, rules regarding whether an element is
                    required or requires multiple values, hierarchical or value constraints, and
                    controlled vocabularies. As a result of these complexities, absolute transformations that
                    ensure exact mappings will result in a loss of precision if the source
                    description system is substantially richer than the target system.
In practice, relative crosswalks where all elements in a
                    source description are mapped to at least one target, regardless of semantic
                    equivalence, are often implemented. This lowers the quality and accuracy of the mapping and can result
                    in "down translation" or "dumbing down" of the system
                    for resource description. As a result of mapping
                        compromises due to different granularity or abstraction levels,
                        transformations from different organizing systems usually result in less
                        granular or specific resource descriptions. Consequently, whereas
                    some interactions are now enabled (e.g., cross-organizing system search), others
                    that were once possible can no longer be supported. For example, conflating
                    geographical and person subject fields from one system (e.g., geographical
                    subject = Alberta, person subject = Virginia) to a joint subject field (e.g.
                    subject = Alberta, Virginia) to transform to the resource description of another
                    system does not allow for searches that distinguish between these specific
                    categories anymore.
Stop and Think: Dumbing down
Can you think of an example where resource description elements from one
                        system are available for interaction in another due to a transformation,
                        where the target system does not retain all the details of the descriptions
                        in the source? 














9.4. Implementing Interactions
The next sections describe some common interactions in digital
            organizing systems. One way to distinguish among them is to consider the source of the
            algorithms that are used in order to perform them. We can mostly distinguish information retrieval
            interactions (e.g., search and browse), machine learning interactions (e.g., cluster, classify, extract) or
            natural language
                processing interactions (e.g., named entity recognition, summarization,
            sentiment analysis, anaphoric resolution). Another way to distinguish among interactions
            is to note whether resources are changed during the interaction (e.g., annotate, tag,
            rate, comment) or unchanged (search, cluster). Yet another way would be to distinguish
            interactions based on their absolute and relative complexity, i.e., on the progression
            of actions or steps that are needed to complete the interaction. Here, we will
            distinguish interactions based on the different resource description layers they act
            upon.
Chapter 2, "Activities in Organizing Systems", introduced the concept of
            affordance or behavioral
            repertoire—the inherent actionable properties that
            determine what can be done with resources. We will now look at affordances (and
            constraints) that resource properties pose for interaction design. The interactions that an individual resource can support depend
                on the nature and extent of its inherent and described properties and internal
                structure. However, the interactions that can be designed into an organizing
                system can be extended by utilizing collection properties, derived properties,
                and any combination thereof. These three types of resource properties can be
                thought of as creating layers because they build on each other.
The further an organizing system moves up the layers, the more
            functional capabilities are enabled and more interactions can be designed. The degree of possible interactions is determined by the extent
                of the properties that are organized, described, and created in an organizing
                system. This marks a correlation between the extent of organization and
            the range of possible interactions: The more
                extensive the organization and the number of identifiable resource
                properties, the larger the universe of "affordable"
                interactions.
Interactions can be distinguished by four layers:
Interactions based on properties of individual resources
Resource properties have been described
                        extensively in Chapter 3 and Chapter 4. Any
                                    information or property that describes the resource itself can be
                                    used to design an interaction. If a property is not
                        described in an organizing system or does not pertain to certain
                        resources, an interaction that needs this information cannot be
                        implemented. For example, a retail site like
                        Shopstyle cannot offer to reliably search
                        by color of clothing if this property is not contained in the resource
                        description.
Interactions based on collection properties
Collection-based properties are created when resources
                        are aggregated. (See Chapter 1.) An
                                interaction that compares individual resources to a collection
                                average (e.g., average age of publications in a library or average
                                price of goods in a retail store) can only be implemented if the
                                collection average is calculated.
Interactions based on derived or computed properties
Derived or computed properties are not inherent in the
                        resources or collections but need to be computed with the help of
                        external information or tools. The popularity of a digital resource can
                        be computed based on the frequency of its use, for example. This
                        computed property could then be used to design an access interaction
                        that searches resources based on their popularity. An important use case
                        for derived properties is the analysis of non-textual resources like
                        images or audio files. For these content-based interactions, intrinsic
                        properties of the resources like color distributions are computationally
                        derived and stored as resource properties. A search can then be
                        performed on color distributions (e.g., a search for outdoor nature
                        images could return resources that have a high concentration of blue in
                        the upper half and a high concentration of green on the bottom: a meadow
                        on a sunny day).
Interactions based on combining resources Combining resources and their individual, collection or derived properties can be used to
                        design interactions based on joint properties that a single organizing
                        system and its resources do not contain. This can lead to interactions that
                        individual organizing systems with their particular purposes and resource
                        descriptions cannot offer.
Whether a desired interaction can be implemented depends on the layers
            of resource properties that have been incorporated into the organizing system. How an
            interaction is implemented (especially in digital organizing systems) depends also on
            the algorithms and technologies available to access the resources or resource
            descriptions. 
In our examples, we write primarily about textual resources or
            resource descriptions. Information retrieval of physical goods (e.g., finding a favorite
            cookie brand in the supermarket) or non-textual multimedia digital resources (e.g.,
            finding images of the UC Berkeley logo) involves similar
            interactions, but with different algorithms and different resource properties.
9.4.1. Interactions Based on Instance Properties
Interactions in this category depend only on the properties of
                individual resource instances. Often, using resource properties on this lower layer
                coincides with basic action combinations in the interaction.
9.4.1.1. Boolean Retrieval
In a Boolean search, a query
                    is specified by stating the information need and using operators from Boolean
                    logic (AND, OR, NOT) to combine the components. The query is compared to
                    individual resource properties (most often terms), where the result of the
                    comparison is either TRUE or FALSE. The TRUE results are returned as a result of
                    the query, and all other results are ignored. A Boolean search does not compare
                    or rank resources so every returned resource is considered equally relevant. The
                    advantage of the Boolean search is that the results are predictable and easy to
                    explain. However, because the results of the Boolean model are not ranked by
                    relevance, users have to sift through all the returned resource descriptions in
                    order to find the most useful results.

9.4.1.2. Tag / Annotate
A tagging or annotation interaction allows a user (either a human
                    or a computational agent) to add information to the resource itself or the
                    resource descriptions. A typical tagging or annotation interaction locates a
                    resource or resource description and lets the user add their chosen resource
                    property. The resulting changes are stored in the organizing system and can be
                    made available for other interactions (e.g., when additional tags are used to
                    improve the search). An interaction that adds information from users can also
                    enhance the quality of the system and improve its usability.


9.4.2. Interactions Based on Collection Properties
Interactions in this category utilize collection-level properties
                in order to improve the interaction, for example, to improve the ranking in a search
                or to enable comparison to collection averages.
9.4.2.1. Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models

Ranked retrieval sorts the results of a search according to their relevance
                    with respect to the information need of a user expressed in a query. The Vector Space and Probabilistic approaches introduced here use
                    individual resource properties like term occurrence or term frequency in a
                    resource and collection averages of terms and their frequencies to calculate the
                    rank of a resource for a query.
The simplicity of the Boolean model
                        makes it easy to understand and implement, but its binary notion of
                        relevance does not fit our intuition that terms differ in how much they
                        suggest what a document is about.
Gerard Salton invented the vector space model of information retrieval to enable
                    a continuous measure of relevance.
                    In the vector space model, each resource and query in
                        an organizing system is represented as a vector of terms. 
                    Resources and queries are compared by comparing the directions of vectors in an
                    n-dimensional space (as many dimensions as terms in the collection), with the
                    assumption is that "closeness in space" means "closeness in
                        meaning."
In contrast to the vector space
                    model, the underlying idea of the probabilistic model is that given a query
                    and a resource or resource description (most often a text), probability
                    theory is used to estimate how likely it is that a resource is relevant to
                    an information need. A probabilistic model returns a list of
                    resources that are ranked by their estimated probability of
                        relevance with respect to the information need so that the
                    resource with the highest probability to be relevant is ranked highest. In the
                    vector space model, by comparison, the resource whose term vector is most
                    similar to a query term vector (based on frequency counts) is ranked
                    highest.
Both models utilize an intrinsic resource property called the
                        term frequency (tf). For each term, term frequency (tf)
                    measures how many times the term appears in a resource. It is intuitive that
                        term frequency itself has an ability to summarize a
                    resource. If a term such as "automobile" appears frequently in a
                    resource, we can assume that one of the topics discussed in the resource is
                    automobiles and that a query for "automobile" should retrieve this
                    resource. Another problem with the term frequency measure occurs when resource
                    descriptions have different lengths (a very common occurrence in organizing
                    systems). In order to compensate for different resource description lengths that
                    would bias the term frequency count and the calculated relevance towards longer
                    documents, the length of the term vectors are normalized as a percentage of the
                    description length rather than a raw count.
Relying solely on term frequency to determine the relevance of
                    a resource for a query has a drawback: if the term occurs in every resource in a
                    collection it has no power to distinguish resources. For example, if every
                    resource in an organizing system discusses automobiles, all resources are
                    potentially relevant for an "automobile" query. Hence, there should
                    be an additional mechanism that penalize a term appearing in too many resources.
                    This is done with inverse
                        document frequency, which signals how often a term or property
                    occurs in a collection.
Inverse document
                        frequency (idf) is a collection-level
                    property. 
                    
                    The document
                        frequency (df) is the number of resources
                    containing a particular term. The inverse document frequency (idf) for a
                    term is defined as
                    idft = log(N/dft), 
                    where N is the total number of
                    documents. The inverse document frequency of a term decreases the more
                    documents contain the term, providing a discriminating factor for the
                    importance of terms in a query. For example, in a collection
                    containing resources about automobiles, an information retrieval interaction can
                    handle a query for "automobile accident" by lowering the importance
                    of "automobile" and increasing the importance of
                    "accident" in the resources that are selected as result
                    set.
As a first step of a search, resource descriptions are
                    compared with the terms in the query. In the vector space model, a metric for
                    calculating similarities between resource description and query vectors
                    combining the term frequency and the inverse document frequency is used to rank
                    resources according to their relevance with respect to the query.
The probability ranking principle
                    is mathematically and theoretically better motivated than the vector space
                    ranking principle. However, multiple methods have been proposed to
                    estimate the probability of relevance. Well-known probabilistic retrieval
                    methods are Okapi BM25, language models
                        (LM) and divergence from randomness models
                            (DFR). Although these models vary in their estimations of the probability
                    of relevance for a given resource and differ in their mathematical complexity,
                    intrinsic properties of resources like term frequency and collection-level
                    properties like inverse document frequency and others are used for these
                    calculations.

9.4.2.2. Synonym Expansion with Latent Semantic Indexing

Latent
                            semantic indexing is a variation of the vector space model
                        where a mathematical technique known as singular value decomposition is used
                        to combine similar term vectors into a smaller number of vectors that
                        describe their "statistical center."
 This method is based mostly on collection-level properties like
                    co-occurrence of terms in a collection. Based on the terms that occur in all
                    resources in a collection, the method calculates which terms might be synonyms
                    of each other or otherwise related. Put another way, latent semantic indexing
                    groups terms into topics. Let us say the terms "roses" and
                        "flowers" often occur together in the resources of a particular
                    collection. The latent semantic indexing methodology recognizes statistically
                    that these terms are related, and replaces the representations of the
                        "roses" and "flower" terms with a computed
                        "latent semantic" term that captures the fact that they are
                    related, reducing the dimensionality of resource description (see §4.3.4.4, "Vocabulary Control as Dimensionality Reduction"). Since queries are translated into the same set
                    of components, a query for "roses" will also retrieve resources
                    that mention "flower." This increases the chance of a resource
                    being found relevant to a query even if the query terms do not match the
                    resource description terms exactly; the technique can therefore improve the
                    quality of search.
Latent semantic indexing has been shown to
                        be a practical technique for estimating the substitutability or semantic
                        equivalence of words in larger text segments, which makes it effective in
                        information retrieval, text categorization, and other NLP
                        applications like question answering. In addition, some people view
                    it as a model of the computational processes and representations underlying
                    substantial portions of how knowledge is acquired and used, because latent
                    semantic analysis techniques produces measures of word-word, word-passage, and
                    passage-passage relations that correlate well with human cognitive judgments and
                    phenomena involving association or semantic similarity. These situations include
                    vocabulary tests, rate of vocabulary learning, essay tests, prose recall, and
                    analogical reasoning.
Another approach for increasing the quality of search is to
                    add similar terms or properties to a query from a controlled vocabulary or
                    classification system. When a query can be mapped to terms in the controlled
                    vocabulary or classes in the classification, the inherent semantic structure of
                    the vocabulary or classification can suggest additional terms (broader,
                    narrower, synonymous) whose occurrence in resources can signal their relevance
                    for a query.

9.4.2.3. Structure-Based Retrieval
When the internal structure of a
                        resource is represented in its resource description a search interaction can
                        use the structure to retrieve more specific parts of a resource.
                    This enables parametric or zone searching, where a particular component or
                    resource property can be searched while all other properties are
                        disregarded. For example, a search for "Shakespeare" in the title
                    field in a bibliographic organizing system will only retrieve books with
                    Shakespeare in the title, not as an author. Because all resources use the same
                    structure, this structure is a collection-level property.

9.4.2.4. Clustering / Classification
Clustering
                            (§6.5.2) and computational classification (§7.7) are both interactions that
                        use individual and collection-level resource properties to execute their
                        operation. During clustering (unsupervised learning), all resources
                    are compared and grouped with respect to their similarity to each other. During
                    computational classification (supervised learning), an individual resource or a
                    group of resources is compared to a given classification or controlled vocabulary in
                    an organizing system and the resource is assigned to the most similar class or
                    descriptor. Another example for a classification interaction is spam detection.
                        (See §7.7.) Author identification or characterization algorithms attempt
                    to determine the author of a given work (a classification interaction) or to
                    characterize the type of author that has or should write a work (a clustering
                    interaction).


9.4.3. Interactions Based on Derived Properties
Interactions in this category derive or
                    compute properties or features that are not inherent to the resources
                themselves or the collection. External data sources, services, and tools are
                employed to support these interactions. Building
                    interactions with conditionality based on externally derived properties usually
                    increases the quality of the interactions by increasing the system's context
                    awareness.
Retail store activity tracking


Retail analytics companies
                                    use cameras and other sensors to analyze shopper activity in
                                    retail stores and generate heatmaps of which areas see the most
                                    foot traffic and which items customers interact with
                                    most.
(Photo by Flickr user m01229. 
                                Creative Commons license. 
                                Illustration of heatmap 
                                by Ian MacFarland.)



9.4.3.1. Popularity-Based Retrieval
Google's PageRank (see
                        §5.5.3) is the most well-known
                    popularity measure for websites. The basic idea of PageRank is that a
                    website is as popular as the number of links referencing the website. The actual
                    calculation of a website's PageRank involves more sophisticated mathematics than
                    counting the number of in-links, because the source of links is also important.
                    Links that come from quality websites contribute more to a website's PageRank
                    than other links, and links to qualitatively low websites will hurt a website's
                    PageRank.
An information retrieval model for web pages can now use
                        PageRank to determine the value of a web page
                    with respect to a query. Google and other web search engines
                    use many different ranking features to determine the final rank of a web page
                    for any search, PageRank as a popularity measure is only one of them.
Other popularity measures can be used to rank resources.
                    For example, frequency of use, buying frequency for retail goods, 
                    the number of laundry cycles a particular piece of clothing has gone through, 
                    and even whether it is due for a laundry cycle right now.

9.4.3.2. Citation-Based Retrieval
Citation-based
                            retrieval is a sophisticated and highly effective technique
                        employed within bibliographic information systems. Bibliographic
                    resources are linked to each other by citations, that is, when one publication
                    cites another. When a bibliographic resource is referenced by another resource,
                    those two resources are probably thematically related. The idea of
                    citation-based search is to use a known resource as the information need and
                    retrieve other resources that are related by citation.
Citation-based search can
                        be implemented by directly following citations from the original resource or
                        to find resources that cite the original resource. Another
                    comparison technique is the principle of bibliographic coupling, where the
                    information retrieval system looks for other resources that cite the same
                    resources as the original resource. Citation-based search results can also be
                    ranked, for example, by the number of in-citations a publication has received
                    (the PageRank popularity measure actually derives from this principle).

9.4.3.3. Translation
During translation, resources are transformed into another language,
                        with varying degrees of success. In contrast to the transformations
                    that are performed in order to merge resources from different organizing systems
                    to prepare them for further interactions, a translation transforms the resource
                    after it has been retrieved or located. Dictionaries or parallel corpora are
                    external resources that drive a translation.
During a dictionary-based
                        translation, every individual term (sometimes phrases) in a resource
                        description is looked up in a dictionary and replaced with the most likely
                        translation. This is a simple translation, as it cannot take
                    grammatical sentence structures or context into account. Context can have an
                    important impact on the most likely translation: the French word avocat should be translated into 
                    lawyer 
                    in most organizing systems, 
                    but probably not in a cookbook collection, in which it is the 
                    avocado 
                    fruit.
Parallel corpora are a way to overcome many of these challenges.
                        Parallel corpora are the same or similar texts in
                        different languages. The Bible or the protocols of United Nations (UN) meetings are popular examples because they exist in
                    parallel in many different languages. A machine learning algorithm can learn
                    from these corpora to derive which phrases and other grammatical structures can
                    be translated in which contexts. This knowledge can then be applied to further
                    resource translation interactions.


9.4.4. Interactions Based on Combining Resources
Interactions in this category combine resources mostly from
                different organizing systems to provide services that a single organizing system
                could not enable. Sometimes different organizing systems
                    with related resources are created on purpose in order to protect the privacy of
                    personal information or to protect business interests. Releasing
                organizing systems to the public can have unwanted consequences when clever
                developers detect the potential of connecting previously unrelated data
                sources.
9.4.4.1. Mash-Ups
A mash-up combines data from several resources, which enables an
                        interaction to present new information that arises from the
                        combination. For example, housing advertisements have been combined with crime
                    statistics on maps to graphically identify rentals that are available in
                    relatively safe neighborhoods.
Mash-up of Housing and Crime Stats


The "Local
                                            Info" map on real-estate website Trulia mashes up
                                        data on crime, schools, housing prices, commute times, and
                                        other factors relevant to people searching for a new place
                                        to live.
(Screenshots by 
                                    Ian MacFarland.)



Mash-ups are usually ad-hoc combinations at the resource level and therefore do
                    not impact the "mashed-up" organizing systems' internal structures
                    or vocabularies; they can be an efficient instrument for rapid prototyping on
                    the web. On the other hand, that makes them not very reliable or robust, because
                    a mash-up can fail in its operation as soon as the underlying organizing systems
                    change.

9.4.4.2. Linked Data Retrieval and Resource Discovery
In §8.4.3, "The Semantic Web World", linked data relates resources
                    among different organizing system technologies via standardized and unique
                    identifiers (URIs). This simple approach connects resources
                    from different systems with each other so that a cross-system search is
                        possible.
                    For example, two different online retailers selling a
                        Martha Stewart bedspread can link to a website describing
                    the bedspread on the Martha Stewart website. Both
                    retailers use the same unique identifier for the bedspread, which leads back to
                    the Martha Stewart site.
Resource
                            discovery or linked data
                            retrieval are search interactions that traverse the network (or
                        semantic web graph) via connecting links in order to discover semantically
                        related resources. A search
                    interaction could therefore use the link from one retailer to the
                        Martha Stewart website to discover the other
                    retailer, which might have a cheaper or more convenient offer.













9.5. Evaluating Interactions
Managing the quality of an interaction with
                respect to its intent or goal is a crucial part of every step from design through
                implementation and especially during operation. Evaluating the quality of
            interactions at different times in the design process (design concept, prototype,
            implementation, and operation) reveals both strengths and weaknesses to the designers or
            operators of the organizing system.
During the design and implementation stages,
                interactions need to be tested against the original goals of the interaction and the
                constraints that are imposed by the organizing system, its resources and external
                conditions. It is very common for processes in interactions to be tweaked
            or tuned to better comply with the original goals and intentions for the interaction.
            Evaluation during these stages often attempts to provide a calculable way to measure
            this compliance and supports the fine-tuning process. It should be an integral part of
            an iterative design process.
During the later implementation and operation stages, interactions are
            evaluated with respect to the dynamically changing conditions of the organizing system
            and its environment. User expectations as well as environmental conditions or
            constraints can change and need to be checked periodically. A systematic evaluation of
            interactions ensures that changes that affect an interaction are observed early and can
            be integrated in order to adjust and even improve the interaction. At these stages, more
            subjective evaluation aspects like satisfaction, experience, reputation, or
                "feel" also play a role in fine-tuning the interactions. This
            subjective part of the evaluation process is as important as the quantitative, objective
            part. Many factors during the design and implementation processes need to be considered
            and made to work together. Ongoing quality evaluation and feedback ensures that
            interactions work as intended.
Evaluation aspects can be distinguished in numerous ways: by the
            effort and time to perform them (both data collection and analysis); by how quantifiable
            they are or how comparable they are with measures in other organization systems; by what
            component of the interaction or organizing system they focus on; or by the discipline,
            expertise, or methodologies that are used for the evaluation.
A common and important distinction is the
            difference between efficiency, effectiveness, and satisfaction. An interaction
            is efficient when it performs its actions in a timely and economical manner,
            effective when it performs its actions correctly and completely, satisfactory
            when it performs as expected. Satisfaction is the least quantifiable of the
            evaluation aspects because it is highly dependent on individual tastes and
            experiences.
Let us assume that Shopstyle.com develops a
            new interaction that lets you compare coat lengths from the offerings of their various
            retailers. Once the interaction is designed, an evaluation takes place in order to
            determine whether all coats and their lengths are integrated in the interaction and
            whether the coat lengths are measured and compared correctly. The designers would not
            only want to know whether the coat lengths are represented correctly but also whether
            the interaction performs efficiently. When the interaction is ready to be released
            (usually first in beta or test status), users and retailers will be asked whether the
            interaction improves their shopping experience, whether the comparison performs as they
            expected, and what they would change. These evaluation styles work hand in hand in order
            to improve the interaction.
9.5.1. Efficiency
When evaluating the efficiency of an organizing system, we focus on the time,
                energy and economic resources needed in order to achieve the interaction goals of
                the system. Commonly, the fewer resources are needed for achieving a successful
                interaction, the more efficient the interaction. 
Efficiency measures
                    are usually related to engineering aspects such as the time to perform an
                    action, number of steps to perform an interaction, or amount of computing
                    resources used. Efficiency is important to provide a seamless user
                experience where users can interact with the system in a timely manner without
                unreasonable costs for them or the organizing system.  
For a lot of organizing system interactions, however,
                effectiveness is the more important aspect, particularly for those interactions that
                we have looked at so far. If search results are not correct, then users will not be
                satisfied by even the most usable interface. Many interactions are evaluated with
                respect to their ability to return relevant resources. Why and how this is evaluated
                is the focus of the remainder of this section.

9.5.2. Effectiveness
Effectiveness evaluates the correct output or results of an interaction. An
                effective interaction achieves relevant, intended or expected results. 
                The concept of
                    relevance and its relationship 
                    to effectiveness is pivotal in
                    information retrieval and machine learning interactions.
                (§9.5.2.1)
                Effectiveness measures are often developed in the fields that
                    developed the algorithm for the interaction, information retrieval, or machine
                    learning.
Precision and recall are the fundamental measures of
                    relevance or effectiveness
                    in information retrieval or machine learning interactions.
                (§9.5.2.2)
            
9.5.2.1. Relevance
 Relevance is widely
                    regarded as the fundamental concept of information retrieval, and by extension,
                    all of information science. Despite being one of the more intuitive concepts in
                    human communication, relevance is notoriously difficult to define and has been
                    the subject of much debate over the past century.
For the purpose of organizing systems,
                    relevance is a concept for evaluating effectiveness that describes whether a
                    stated or implicit information need is satisfied in a particular user context
                    and at a particular time. One of the challenges for the evaluation of
                relevance in organizing systems is the gap between a user's information need (often
                not directly stated), and an expression of that information need (a query). This gap
                might result in ambiguous results in the interaction. For example, suppose somebody
                speaks the word "Paris" (query) into a smart phone application seeking
                advice on how to travel to Paris, France. The response includes offers for the
                    Paris Hotel in Las Vegas. Does
                    the result satisfy the information need? What if the searcher receives advice on
                    Paris but has already seen every one of the resources the organizing system
                    offers? What is the correct decision on relevance here?
The key to calculating effectiveness is
                    to be aware of what is being measured. If the information need as
                expressed in the query is measured, the topical relevance or
                    topicality—a system-side perspective is analyzed. If the
                information need as in a person's mind is measured, the pertinence, utility, or
                situational relevance—a subjective, personal perspective is
                analyzed. This juxtaposition is the point of much research and contention in the
                field of information retrieval, because topical relevance is objectively measurable,
                but subjective relevance is the real goal. In order to evaluate relevance in any
                interaction, an essential prerequisite is deciding which of these notions of
                relevance to consider.

9.5.2.2. The Recall / Precision Tradeoff
Precision measures the
                        accuracy of a result set,
                    that is, how many of the retrieved resources for a query are relevant.
Recall measures the completeness of the result
                    set, that is, how many of the relevant resources in a collection were
                    retrieved. Let us assume that a collection contains 20 relevant
                resources for a query. A retrieval interaction retrieves 10 resources in a result
                set, 5 of the retrieved resources are relevant. The precision of this interaction is
                50% (5 out of 10 retrieved resources are relevant); the recall is 25% (5 out of 20
                relevant resources were retrieved).
It is in the nature of
                    information retrieval interactions that recall and precision trade off with each
                    other. To find all relevant resources in a collection, the interaction
                has to cast a wide net and will not be very precise. In order to be very precise and
                return only relevant resources to the searcher, an interaction has to be very
                discriminating and will probably not find all relevant resources. When a collection
                is very large and contains many relevant resources for any given query, the priority
                is usually to increase precision. However, when a collection is small or the
                information need also requires finding all relevant documents (e.g., in case law,
                patent searches, or medical diagnosis support), then the priority is put on
                increasing recall.
The
                    completeness and granularity of the organizing principles in an organizing
                    system have a large impact on the trade-off between recall and precision.
(See Chapter 3.) When resources are organized in fine-grained category systems and
                many different resource properties are described, high-precision searches are
                possible because a desired resource can be searched as precisely as the description
                or organization of the system allows. However, very specialized description and
                organization may preclude certain resources from being found; consequently, recall
                might be sacrificed. If the organization is superficial—like
                your sock drawer, for example—you can find all the socks you
                want (high recall) but you have to sort through a lot of socks to find the right
                pair (low precision). The trade-off between recall and precision is closely
                associated with the extent of the organization.


9.5.3. Satisfaction
Satisfaction evaluates the opinion, experience or attitude of a user towards an
                interaction. Because satisfaction depends on individual user opinions, it is
                difficult to quantify. Satisfaction measures arise out
                    of the user's experience with the interaction—they
                    are mostly aspects of user interfaces, usability, or subjective and
                    aesthetic impressions.
Usability measures whether the interaction and the user interface designed for it
                correspond with the user's expectations of how they should function. It particularly
                focuses on the usefulness of the interaction. Usability analyzes ease-of-use,
                learnability, and cognitive effort to measure how well users can use an interaction
                to achieve their task.
Although efficiency, effectiveness, and satisfaction are measured
                differently and affect different components of the interaction, they are equally
                important for the success of an interaction. Even if an interaction is fast, it is
                not very useful if it arrives at incorrect results. Even if an interaction works
                correctly, user satisfaction is not guaranteed. One of the challenges in designing
                interactions is that these factors invariably involve tradeoffs. A fast system
                cannot be as precise as one that prioritizes the use of contextual information. An
                effective interaction might require a lot of effort from the user, which does not
                make it very easy to use, so the user satisfaction might decrease. The priorities of
                the organizing system and its designers will determine which properties to
                optimize.
Let us continue our Shopstyle coat-length
                comparison interaction example. When the coat length calculation is performed in an
                acceptable amount of time and does not consume a lot of the organizing systems
                resources, the interaction is efficient. When all coat lengths are correctly
                measured and compared, the interaction is effective. When the interaction is
                seamlessly integrated into the shopping process, visually supported in the
                interface, and not cognitively exhausting, is it probably satisfactory for a user,
                as it provides a useful service (especially for someone with irregular body
                dimensions). What aspect should Shopstyle prioritize? It will probably weigh the
                consequences of effectiveness versus efficiency and satisfaction. For a retail- and
                consumer-oriented organizing system, satisfaction is probably one of the more
                important aspects, so it is highly likely that efficiency and effectiveness might be
                sacrificed (in moderation) in favor of satisfaction.













Self-Review

Question









Answer




9.6. Key Points in Chapter Nine
Switch to Quiz Mode
Where do interactions come from in an
                        organizing system?

Interactions arise naturally from the affordances of
                        resources or are purposefully designed into organizing systems.
See §9.1, "Introduction".

What are the most common interactions
                        with resources in organizing systems?

Accessing and merging resources are fundamental
                        interactions that occur in almost every organizing system.
See §9.1, "Introduction"

What factors distinguish
                        interactions?

User requirements, which layer of resource properties is
                        used, and the legal, social and organizational environment can distinguish
                        interactions.
See §9.2, "Determining Interactions"

What activities, with respect to
                        resources, are typically required to enable interactions?

In order to enable interactions, it is necessary to
                        identify, describe, and sometimes transform the resources in an organizing
                        system.
See §9.3.1, "Identifying and Describing Resources for Interactions"

What is a crosswalk?

Similar to mapping, a straightforward approach to transformation is the use of crosswalks, which
                        are equivalence tables that relate resource description elements, semantics,
                        and writing systems from one organizing system to those of
                        another.
See §9.3.2.2, "Modes of Transformation"

How can we distinguish or classify
                        transformations in organizing systems?

Merging transformations can be distinguished by type
                        (mapping or crosswalk), time (design time or run time) and mode (manual or
                        automatic).
See §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction"

What factors distinguish
                        implementations of resource-based interactions?

Implementations can be distinguished by the source of the
                        algorithm (information retrieval, machine learning, natural language
                        processing), by their complexity (number of actions needed), by whether
                        resources are changed, or by the resource description layers they are based
                        on.
See §9.4, "Implementing Interactions"

What evaluation criteria distinguish
                        interactions?

Important aspects for the evaluation of interactions are
                        efficiency (timeliness and cost-effectiveness), effectiveness (accuracy and
                        relevance) and satisfaction (positive attitude of the user).
See §9.5, "Evaluating Interactions"

What is relevance?

The concept of
                    relevance and its relationship 
                    to effectiveness is pivotal in
                    information retrieval and machine learning interactions.
See §9.5.2.1, "Relevance"

What is the recall and precision
                        trade-off?

The trade-off between recall and precision decides whether
                        a search finds all relevant documents (high recall) or only relevant
                        documents (high precision).
See §9.5.2.2, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"

How does granularity of organization
                        affect recall and precision?

The extent of the organization principles
                        also impacts recall and precision: more fine-grained organization allows for
                        more precise interactions.
See §9.5.2.2, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff".
                    

Interactions arise naturally from the affordances of
                        resources or are purposefully designed into organizing systems.
See §9.1, "Introduction".

Accessing and merging resources are fundamental
                        interactions that occur in almost every organizing system.
See §9.1, "Introduction"

User requirements, which layer of resource properties is
                        used, and the legal, social and organizational environment can distinguish
                        interactions.
See §9.2, "Determining Interactions"

In order to enable interactions, it is necessary to
                        identify, describe, and sometimes transform the resources in an organizing
                        system.
See §9.3.1, "Identifying and Describing Resources for Interactions"

Similar to mapping, a straightforward approach to transformation is the use of crosswalks, which
                        are equivalence tables that relate resource description elements, semantics,
                        and writing systems from one organizing system to those of
                        another.
See §9.3.2.2, "Modes of Transformation"

Merging transformations can be distinguished by type
                        (mapping or crosswalk), time (design time or run time) and mode (manual or
                        automatic).
See §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction"

Implementations can be distinguished by the source of the
                        algorithm (information retrieval, machine learning, natural language
                        processing), by their complexity (number of actions needed), by whether
                        resources are changed, or by the resource description layers they are based
                        on.
See §9.4, "Implementing Interactions"

Important aspects for the evaluation of interactions are
                        efficiency (timeliness and cost-effectiveness), effectiveness (accuracy and
                        relevance) and satisfaction (positive attitude of the user).
See §9.5, "Evaluating Interactions"

The concept of
                    relevance and its relationship 
                    to effectiveness is pivotal in
                    information retrieval and machine learning interactions.
See §9.5.2.1, "Relevance"

The trade-off between recall and precision decides whether
                        a search finds all relevant documents (high recall) or only relevant
                        documents (high precision).
See §9.5.2.2, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"

The extent of the organization principles
                        also impacts recall and precision: more fine-grained organization allows for
                        more precise interactions.
See §9.5.2.2, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff".
                    












Chapter 10. The Organizing System RoadmapRobert J. Glushko
10.1. Introduction
Chapter 1 defined an organizing system
            as "an intentionally arranged collection of resources and the
                    interactions they support." An organizing system emerges as
            the result of decisions about what is organized,
                why it is organized, how
                much it is organized, when it is
            organized, and how or by whom it is organized. These
            decisions and the tradeoffs they embody are manifested in the four common activities of
            organizing systems—selecting resources, organizing them,
            designing and supporting interactions with them, and maintaining
                them—which we described in Chapter 2. Chapters 3-9
            progressively explained each of the parts of the organizing system: resources, resource
            descriptions, resource categories and collections, and interactions with
                resources—introducing additional concepts and methods
            associated with each of these parts.
Along the way we described many types of organizing systems. Sometimes
            we discussed broad categories of organizing systems, like those for libraries, museums,
            business information systems, and compositions of web-based services. At other times we
            described specific instances of organizing systems, like those in the Seed
                Library, the Flickr photo sharing site,
                Amazon's drop shipment store, and your home kitchen or
            closet.
We can now build on the foundation created by
                Chapters 1-9 to create a "roadmap" that organizes and summarizes the
                design issues and choices that emerge during an organizing system's
                lifecycle. These design choices follow patterns that help us understand
            existing organizing systems better, while also suggesting how to invent new ones by
            making a different set of design choices.
The roadmap is extensively annotated with
                references to the preceding chapters where the issues and choices mentioned in the
                roadmap were introduced and discussed in detail. We will use this roadmap
            to analyze a variety of case study examples in Chapter 11, and to explore the
                "design neighborhood" around each of them. The five design questions
            from Chapter 1 serve as a template to give each case study the same structure, which we
            hope enables instructors, students, and others who read this book to add to this
            collection of case studies by contributing their own at DisciplineOfOrganizing.org.












10.2. The Organizing System Lifecycle
System lifecycle models exhibit great variety; for our purposes it
            suffices to use a generic four-phase model that distinguishes a domain definition and
            scoping phase, a requirements phase, a design and implementation phase, and an
            operational and maintenance phase. These phases are brief and mostly inseparable for
            some simple organizing systems, more sequential for others, and more systematic and
            iterative for complex organizing systems.
Most of the specific decisions that must be made for an organizing
            system are strongly shaped by the initial decisions about its domain, scope (the breadth
            or variety of the resources), and scale (the number of resource instances). In
            organizing systems with limited scope and scale, most of these decisions are made in an
            informal, unanalyzed, and holistic manner. For example, when we arrange our bookshelves
            or closets it is not necessary to think explicitly about scoping, requirements, design,
            implementation, and operational phases. For complex organizing systems, however,
            especially those in information-intensive domains, it is important to follow a more
            systematic methodology. More careful attention to scope and requirements during the
            design and implementation phases is essential because the initial decisions can create
            lasting technology and process legacies that impact operational efficiency and
            flexibility.











10.3. Defining and Scoping the Organizing System Domain
The most fundamental decision for an
                organizing system is defining its domain, the set or type of resources that are being
                organized. This is why "What is Being Organized?"
(§1.3.2)
            was the first of the five design decisions we introduced in Chapter 1.
We refine how we think about an organizing system domain by breaking
            it down into five interrelated aspects: 
the scope and scale of the collection

the number and nature of users

the time span or lifetime over which the organizing system will
                        operate

the physical or technological environment in which the organizing system
                        is situated

the relationship of the organizing system to other ones that overlap with
                        it in domain or scope

Addressing these issues is a prerequisite for prioritizing requirements for the
                organizing system, proposing the principles of its design, and implementing the
                organizing system.
10.3.1. Scope and Scale of the Collection
The scope of a collection is the dominant
                    factor in the design of an organizing system, because it largely determines the
                    extent and complexity of the resource descriptions needed by organizing
                    principles and interactions (§4.3.1.3). The impact of
                    broad scope arises more from the heterogeneity of the resources in a collection
                    than its absolute scale.
It takes more effort to manage a broad and large
                    collection than a narrow and small one; it takes less effort to manage a large
                    collection if it has a narrow scope.  A cattle ranch can get by with just one worker for every thousand cows, unlike zoos, which typically have a small number of instances of many types of animals.  A zoo needs many more workers because each animal type and sometimes even individual animals can have distinct requirements for their arrangement and care.
Consider a business information system being designed to contain
                millions of highly structured and similar instances of a small number of related
                resource types, such as purchase orders and their corresponding invoices. The analysis to determine the appropriate properties and principles for
                resource description and organization is straightforward, and any order or invoice
                is an equally good instance to study.
Contrast this large but very narrow collection
                with a small but very broad one that contains a thousand highly variable instances
                of dozens of different resource types. This heterogeneity makes it difficult to
                determine if an instance is representative of its resource type, and every resource
                might need to be analyzed. This variability implies a large and diverse set of
                resource descriptions where individual resource instances might not be described
                with much precision because it costs too much to do it manually (§4.3.6.1). We can extrapolate to understand why organizing systems whose resource
                collections are both broad and deep, like those of Amazon
                or eBay, have come to rely on machine learning techniques
                to identify description properties and construct resource taxonomies (§4.3.6.4, §6.5.2).
A partial remedy or compromise when the resource instances are highly
                dissimilar is to define resource types more broadly or abstractly, reducing the
                overall number of types. We illustrated this approach in §7.2.2.1 when we contrasted how kitchen
                goods might be categorized broadly in a department store but much more precisely in
                a wholesale kitchen supply store. 
                
                The broader categories in the department store blur many of the
                differences between instances, but in doing so yield a small set of common
                properties that can be used to describe them. Because these common properties will
                be at a higher level of abstraction, using them to describe resources will require
                less expertise and probably less effort (§4.3.1.3, §6.4.1). However, this comes at a cost: Poets, painters, composers, sculptors, technical writers, and
                    programmers all create resources, but describing all of them with a
                        "creator" property, as the Dublin
                        Core requires, loses a great deal of precision.

Challenges caused by the scale of a collection
                    are often related to constraints imposed by the physical or technological
                    environment in which the collection exists that limit how large the collection
                    can be or how it can be organized.
(See §2.3.1) Only a few dozen books can fit on a small bookshelf but thousands
                of books can fit in your two-car garage, which is a typical size because most people
                and families do not have more than two cars. On the other hand, if you are a
                Hollywood mogul, superstar athlete, or sultan with a collection of hundreds of cars,
                a two-car garage is orders of magnitudes too small to store your
                    collection.
                Even collections of digital things can be limited in size
                    by their technological environment, which you might have discovered when you ran
                    out of space for your songs and photos on your portable media
                player.
Estimating the ultimate size of a collection at the beginning of an
                organizing system's lifecycle can reduce scaling issues related to storage space for
                the resources or for their descriptions. Other problems of scale are more
                fundamental. Larger collections need more people to organize and maintain them,
                creating communication and coordination problems that grow much faster than the
                collection, especially when the collection is distributed in different
                locations.
The best way to prevent problems of scope and scale is through
                    standardization. Standardization of resources can take place if they
                are created by automated means so that every instance conforms to a schema or
                    model (§6.5.1).
                Standards for describing bibliographic resources enable
                    libraries to centralize and share much resource description, and using the same
                    standards for resources of diverse types helps address the challenge of broad
                    scope by reducing the need for close monitoring and coordination.
                Analogous standards for describing information resources, services, or economic
                activities business, governmental, or scientific information systems to
                systematically manage hundreds of millions or even billions of transactional records
                or pieces of data (§4.3.1.3).

10.3.2. Number and Nature of Users
An organizing system might have only one
                    user, as when an individual creates and operates an organizing system for a
                    clothes closet, a home bookcase or file cabinet, or for digital files and
                    applications on a personal computer or smart phone. Collections of
                personal resources are often organized for highly individualized interactions using
                    ad hoc categories that are hard to understand for
                any other user (§6.2.2). Personal collections or collections used by
                only a small number of people typically contain resources that they themselves
                selected, which makes the most typical interaction with the organizing system
                searching for a familiar known resource (§9.2.1).
At the other extreme, an organizing system can have national
                or even global scope and have millions or more users like the Library of Congress
                classification system, the United Nations Standard Products and Services Code, or
                the Internet Domain Name System. These organizing systems employ systems of
                institutional categories (§6.2.3) that are designed to support systematically
                specified and purposeful interactions, often to search for previously unknown
                resources. In between these extremes are the many kinds of organizing systems
                created by informal and formal groups, by firms of every size, and by sets of
                cooperating enterprises like those that carry out supply chains and other
                information-intensive business processes.
The nature and number of users strongly
                    shapes the contents of an organizing system and the interactions it must be
                    designed to support.
(See §9.2.1) Some generic categories of users that apply in many domains are
                customers, clients, visitors, operators, and managers. We can adapt the generic
                interactions supported by most organizing systems (§4.3.2) to satisfy these
                generic user types. For example, while most organizing systems allow any type of
                user to browse or search the collection to discover its content, only operators or
                managers are likely to have access to information about the browsing and searching
                activities of customers, clients, or visitors.
Once we have identified the organizing system's domain more precisely
                we can refine these generic user categories, classifying users and interactions with
                more precision. For example, the customers of university libraries are mostly
                professors and students, while the customers of online stores are mostly shoppers
                seeking to find something to purchase.  Library customers borrow and return resources, often according to different policies for professors and students, whereas online stores might only allow resources to be returned for refunds or exchanges under limited circumstances.
Just as it is with collection scope,
                    the heterogeneity of the user base is more critical than its absolute
                    size. An airport bookstore typically has a narrowly focused collection
                and treats its customers as generic travelers browsing imprecisely for something to
                fill their time in the terminal or on the airplane. In contrast, the local public
                library will have a much broader collection because it has to meet the needs of a
                more diverse user base than the airport bookstore, and it will support a range of
                interactions and services targeted to children learning to read, school students,
                local businesses, retirees, and other categories of users. A company library will
                focus its collection on its industry segment, making it narrower in coverage than a
                local or university research library, but it might provide specialized services for
                marketing, engineering, research, legal, or other departments of the firm.
Each category of users, and indeed each
                    individual user, brings different experiences, goals, and biases into
                    interactions with the organizing system. As a result, organizing systems in the
                    same domain and with nominally the same scope can differ substantially in the
                    resources they contain and the interactions they support if they have different
                    categories of users. The library for the Centers for Disease
                    Control and the WebMD website both contain
                information about diseases and symptoms, but the former is primarily organized to
                support research in public health and the latter is organized for consumers trying
                to figure out why they are sick and how to get well. These contrasting purposes and
                targeted users are manifested in different classification systems and descriptive
                    vocabularies.

10.3.3. Expected Lifetime of the Resources and of the Organizing System
The scope and scale of a collection and the
                    size of its user population are often correlated with the expected lifetime of
                    its organizing system. Because small personal organizing systems are
                often created in response to a specific situation or to accomplish a specific task,
                they generally have short lifetimes (§6.2.2).
The expected lifetime of the
                    organizing system is not the same as the expected lifetime of the resources it
                    contains because motivations for maintaining resources differ a great
                    deal.
(See §2.5.1) As we have just noted, some organizing systems created by
                individuals are tied to specific short-term tasks, and when the task is completed or
                changes, the organizing system is no longer needed or must be superseded by a new
                one. At the other extreme are libraries, museums, archives, and other memory
                institutions designed to last indefinitely because they exist to preserve valuable
                and often irreplaceable resources.
However, most business organizing systems contain relatively
                short-lived resources that arise from and support day-to-day operations, in which
                case the organizing system has a long expected lifetime with impermanent resources.
                Finally, just to complete our 2 x 2 matrix, the auction catalog that organizes
                valuable paintings or other collectibles is a short-lived single-purpose organizing
                system whose contents are descriptions of resources with long expected
                lifetimes.

10.3.4. Physical or Technological Environment
An organizing system is often tied to a
                    particular physical or technological environment. A kitchen, closet,
                card cabinet, airplane cockpit, handheld computer or smartphone, and any other
                physical environment in which resources are organized provides affordances to be
                taken advantage of and constraints that must be accommodated by an organizing
                    system (§2.4.1).
The extent of these physical and technological
                    constraints affects the lifetime of an organizing system because they make it
                    more difficult to adapt to changes in the set of resources being organized or
                    the reasons for their organization. A desk or cabinet with fixed
                    "pigeon holes" or drawers affords less flexible organization than a
                file cabinet or open shelves. A building with hard-walled offices constrains how
                people interact and collaborate more than an open floor plan with modular cubicles
                does. Business processes implemented in a monolithic enterprise software application
                are tightly coupled; those implemented as a choreography of loosely-coupled web
                services can often transparently substitute one service provider for another.

10.3.5. Relationship to Other Organizing Systems
The same domain or set of resources can have
                    more than one organizing system, and one organizing system can contain multiple
                    others. The organizing system for books in a library arranges books
                about cooking according to the Library of Congress or Dewey Decimal classifications
                and bookstores use the BISAC ones, mostly using cuisine as the
                primary factor (§7.3). In turn, cookbooks employ an organizing
                system for their recipes that arranges them by type of dish, main ingredient, or
                method of preparation. Within a cookbook, recipes might follow an organizing system
                that standardizes the order of their component parts like the description,
                ingredients, and preparation steps.
Sometimes these multiple organizing systems can be designed in
                coordination so they can function as a single hierarchical, or nested, organizing
                system in which it is possible to emphasize different levels depending on the user's
                task or application. Most books and many documents have an internal structure with
                chapters and hierarchical headings that enable readers to understand smaller units
                of content in the context of larger ones (§5.5.2). Similarly, a
                collection of songs can be treated as an album and organized using that level of
                abstraction for the item, but each of those songs can also be treated as the unit of
                organization, especially when they are embodied in separate digital files.
Organizing systems overlap and intersect.
                    People and enterprises routinely interact with many different organizing systems
                    because what they do requires them to use resources in ways that cut across
                    context, device, or application boundaries. Just consider how many different
                    organizing systems we use as individuals for managing personal information like
                    contacts, appointments, and messages.
As company employees we create and organize information in email,
                document repositories, spreadsheets, and CRM and
                    ERP systems. Now consider this at an institutional scale in the
                inter-enterprise interactions among the organizing systems of physicians, hospitals,
                medical labs, insurance companies, government agencies, and other parties involved
                in healthcare. Finally, think about web "mash-ups" and composite
                services.
We have come to expect that the boundaries
                    between organizing systems are often arbitrary and that we should be able to
                    merge or combine them when that would create additional value. It is surely
                    impossible to anticipate all of these ad hoc or
                    dynamic intersections of organizing systems, but it is surely necessary to
                    recognize their inevitability, especially when the organizing systems contain
                    digital information and are implemented using web architectures.












10.4. Identifying Requirements for an Organizing System
The two parts of the definition of an organizing
                system explicitly suggest two categories of requirements, those that specify the
                intentional arrangement of the resources and those that specify the interactions
                with the resources. These categories of requirements both depend on
            resource descriptions, which are implied by but not explicitly called out in the
            definition of an organizing system.
Because description, arrangement, and interaction
                are interrelated it is impossible to describe them separately without some
                redundancy. Nevertheless, in this book we have done that on purpose because
            taking different perspectives on organizing systems in Chapters 2-9 has enabled us to
            introduce a broad range of concepts, issues, and methods:

Every organizing system must
                        enable users to interact with its collection of resources (Chapters 2 and
                        9);

The possible interactions
                        depend primarily on the nature and extent of the descriptions associated
                        with the resources (Chapters 3, 4 and 5);

Intentional
                        arrangement emerges when one or more resource descriptions are used by
                        organizing principles (Chapters 6 and 7);

Different
                        implementations of the same organizing principle can determine the
                        efficiency or effectiveness of the interactions it enables (Chapter
                        9).

If you are creating a personal organizing system or otherwise small-scale
            one with only a small number of users, you might think there is little reason to think
            explicitly about requirements. However, any project benefits from the discipline of
            being more systematic about its purposes and their priorities. In addition, being
            explicit about requirements enables traceability and impact analysis. Traceability means being able to relate an interaction or feature
                of a system to the requirement it satisfies; impact analysis runs the causal link
                between requirements and features in the opposite direction to assess what or who
                will be affected if requirements change.
10.4.1. Requirements for Interactions in Organizing Systems
When we describe interactions in a generic or broad way as we did in
                    Chapter 2, "Activities in Organizing Systems" we see that all organizing systems have some common
                interactions, but most of the time we want to pay attention to the more specific
                interactions that are designed to create value in a particular organizing system
                because of the kind of resources it contains (§2.4.2). The domain, scope, and scale of the organizing system
                    determines which interactions are possible and which ones must be explicitly
                    supported, but the priorities of different interactions are more often
                    determined by decisions about intended users. (See §10.3.2.)
For most organizing systems other than personal
                    ones, the set of interactions that are implemented in an organizing system is
                    strongly determined by business model considerations, funding levels, or other
                    economic factors.  For-profit firms often differentiate themselves by
                the number and quality of the interactions they support with their resources, some
                by supporting many of them and some by supporting a minimal number. This
                differentiation is strongly shaped by and also shapes user preferences; some people
                prefer self-service or unmediated interactions, while others prefer full service and
                mediated interactions.
                Non-profit institutions like public libraries
                    and museums are also subject to these constraints, but unfortunately they have
                    fewer options for adjusting service levels or changing their targeted user
                    populations when their funding is reduced.
Some requirements for interactions come along with technology
                requirements, to have resources in a particular format, to conform to a particular
                specification or standard in order to operate in some technology environment, or to
                interoperate with other parties or their organizing systems.
An essential requirement in every organizing
                    system is ensuring that the supported interactions can be discovered and invoked
                    by their intended users. In organizing systems with physical resources,
                good designers enhance the inherent affordances of resources with navigation and
                orientation aids that direct users to points of interactions (§2.4.1). With digital
                resources and information-intensive organizing systems, interactions are not
                immediately perceivable, and poor design can create overly complicated user
                interfaces in which many interactions are never discovered and thus never
                used.
It is tricky to compare the overall
                    capabilities of organizing systems in terms of the number or variety of their
                    interactions because what matters more is how much value they create.
                Organizing systems with active resources can create value on their own without an
                explicit user interaction (§3.2.3.2). Other organizing systems exploit stored,
                computed, or contextual
                    information to create value by eliminating the need for user
                    interactions, such as location-based smartphone apps that push information to you when you are near some particular location or some person you know (§2.4.1).

10.4.2. Requirements about the Nature and Extent of Resource Description
Interactions with resources within an
                    organizing system often depend on descriptions of individual resources or
                    descriptions of the collections that contain them. In the bibliographic
                domain, generic or common interactions make use of descriptions that can be
                associated with almost any type of resource, such as the name, creator, and creation
                    date.
                For example, any resource with a sortable name or identifier can be
                arranged alphabetically to enable it to be easily found, and any resource with a
                creation date can be discovered by a "what's new" query to a resource
                collection.
Different types of resources must have
                    differentiating properties, otherwise there would be no reason to distinguish
                    them as different types. These resource properties can be recorded in
                the terms of a description language to support one or more interactions or to answer
                one or more questions. Simply put, choices about the nature and extent of resource
                description depend on which interactions or questions are most frequent or important
                    (§4.3.1.1). If a particular property of a resource has no interactions that depend on it,
                    there is no need to describe it. However, if an interaction depends on a
                    description of a particular resource property, a missing description or one of
                    inadequate precision and granularity means that the interaction will be
                    impossible or inefficient to carry out because the resource will need to be
                    further analyzed to create or extract the required description.
An ISBN is a sufficient
                    description to find a book in a directory, but if the ISBN is
                    the only description associated with the book you will not be able to tell who
                    wrote it.
 The tradeoffs imposed by the extent and timing of resource description
                have been a recurring theme in this book, with the tradeoff between recall and
                precision being the most salient (§1.3.5, §2.4.1, §6.4.1, §6.4.3).
The properties of resources that are easiest
                    to describe are not always the most useful ones, especially for information
                    resources. Anyone can determine the number of pages in a book, but often only a skilled cataloger can accurately describe what the book is about, a far more important property. 
(§4.2.2, ""Description" as an Inclusive Term" and §6.3.4, "The Limits of Property-Based Categorization")
                For non-text information resources this problem is magnified
                because the content is often in a semantically opaque format that it optimized for the devices that creates and processes it but which cannot usefully be
                analyzed by people.
                (§3.4.2.5, "The Semantic Gap" and §4.4, "Describing Non-text Resources")

Business strategy and economics
                    strongly influence the extent of resource description. In many museums
                and archives there are not enough trained people and time to describe every pottery
                fragment or document, and many resources are described only at an aggregate level.
                In contrast, some people argue that the explosion of content in physical and digital
                form mandates significant investment in descriptions that facilitate resource
                discovery in a crowded marketplace.
Automated and computerized processes can
                    create the resource descriptions in an organizing system and their use is
                    primarily driven by scale (§4.3.6.4). Search engines index web pages and analyze their link structures
                because it would be impossible to treat the web as a traditional library and
                organize it by human effort. The benefits of digital cameras, video recorders, and
                similar devices would be far fewer if people had to manually identify and describe
                each resource when creating it. Instead, these devices can automatically assign some
                contextual metadata. Similarly, competitive pressures on vendors to provide
                real-time and context-sensitive information services mandate automated collection of
                contextual information like location from mobile phones, portable book readers and
                tablet computers.
Color Coded Library

Because he is presumably
                                    familiar with the contents of all of his books, interaction
                                    designer Juhan Sonin organized his library according to their
                                    spine colors. This organizing principle is a highly individual
                                    and aesthetic one, but it would probably not appeal to people
                                    unfamiliar with the collection and would bring chaos to a
                                    library of larger size.
(Photo by See-ming Lee.
                                Creative Commons CC-BY-SA-2.0 license.)


We might seek some optimal degree of description given some set of
                requirements or purposes for an organizing system and some estimate of the
                organizing effort that could be applied; in practice this is elusive for two
                reasons, both relating to scope and scale. First, as the number of users of an
                organizing system increases, it becomes more difficult to identify and anticipate
                all its possible purposes and constraints it must satisfy. Even if most users share
                the goals for the organizing system, any particular user might have some additional
                specialized use for some attributes or relationships that would require more
                description to satisfy.
Second, even if it were possible to implement some optimal degree of
                description in a particular organizing system, we would still encounter problems
                when multiple organizing systems exist in the same domain or in domains that
                intersect across context, device, or application boundaries. Since organizing
                systems are designed and evolve to satisfy the specific requirements of their
                particular context, companies will often describe the same resources differently,
                which creates integration and interoperability problems when companies need to
                exchange and combine information resources (§9.3.2).

10.4.3. Requirements about Intentional Arrangement
Organizing principles depend on
                    resource descriptions, so requirements for the former are always intertwined
                    with those for the latter. Specifying requirements for the intentional
                arrangement of resources is analogous to specifying why and how resource categories
                can be created (§6.3). In turn, the creation of resource
                categories often becomes a question about the number and kind of resource properties
                that might be analyzed and exploited by organizing principles.
We noted that there is a continuum of category formation that ranges
                from minimal use of resource properties to more rigorous use of multiple properties,
                and finally to statistical or composite use of multiple properties, some of which
                are induced or inferred rather than explicit. The
                    simplest principle for defining a category is by enumeration, just putting the
                    resources into a set without any specification of any properties they might
                    share. The enumerated resources might very well have common properties, but the
                    principle of enumeration ignores them; the only property that matters for that
                    principle is that the resources are in the same set. This corresponds to the
                    simplest principle of intentional arrangement, that of collocation, just putting the
                    resources in the same location without any additional organization.

Collocated resources often acquire some additional arrangement as a
                result of their use; consider how the books, papers, or other resources gathered for
                some writing project often end up in piles in your office or on your desk close to
                your work area. For a small collection, the
                    proximity-to-use organizing principle is the easiest way to satisfy a
                    requirement to minimize the time to find frequently used
                resources.
As we have often seen, the scope and scale of the organizing
                system is a dominant design consideration and it applies to principles of resource
                arrangement too. The collocation principle of arrangement
                    is sufficient for small resource collections because it is not necessary to
                    define the optimal organization if the time to find any particular resource is
                    short even for an inefficient search method of scanning the entire
                    collection.
Using the extrinsic property of frequency of use makes
                    search slightly more efficient, but only in organizing systems where the user
                    population is small or interacts with the resources in similar ways. Otherwise,
                    arranging resources to facilitate their frequent access for some users would
                    hinder other users who never use them. Imagine if you shared your
                office desk with someone who works all night on other writing projects and leaves
                his frequently used resources in piles close to his work area - which becomes your
                work area in the morning.
Larger resource
                    collections usually require multiple organizing principles to manage the
                    complexity that emerges when more users and more varied interactions must be
                    supported.  A valet parking lot might organize cars only by size to make optimal use of limited space when parking and fetching them, but when cars are organized for sale they would be organized by price, performance, seating capacity, manufacturer, and many other properties.  It is essential to establish the priority of users and interactions
                    because these requirements determine the order in which the principles are
                    applied to arrange the resources. This ordering creates a logical resource
                    hierarchy that affects the efficiency of interactions and the maintenance of the
                    organizing system over time.
Information resources are invariably
                    challenging to arrange because their aboutness is not an easily perceived
                    property and because of the open-ended purposes they can serve.
                Information collections with broad scope most often use a standard system of
                bibliographic classification (§7.3). In
                contrast, special libraries have narrower collections that need to support
                domain-specific interactions for a relatively small set of users, and as a result
                they require more specialized organizational schemes.
                The principles for resource arrangement in large
                    firms of every type are often required to conform with laws and regulations for
                    accounting, taxes, human resources, data retention and non retention, access
                    control, and other functions.
(See  §2.5.4.1,
                        §7.1.5.4)

10.4.4. Dealing with Conflicting Requirements
Any individual, group, or enterprise can
                    create an organizing system that meets their specific requirements, but once
                    this organizing system involves two or more parties with different requirements,
                    there is a potential for conflict. Roommates or spouses sometimes argue
                about how to organize items in the kitchen, in the refrigerator, or in some other
                shared space. To a person who arranges spices alphabetically and condiment jars by
                size, arranging them according to cuisine or frequency of use makes no sense.
                Similarly, if you are the sole user of a Dropbox or other cloud storage account, you
                can organize it any way you want. You can use any number of folders that need only
                make sense to you, or you can leave everything unorganized in a single folder.
                However, if you share the Dropbox account with another person, they are likely to
                have different organizational needs or preferences. Perhaps you tend to organize
                resources by file type, while they prefer to organize resources by topic or
                project.
A small number of people
                    can often agree on an organizing system that meets the needs of each participant
                    through informal negotiations. The potential for conflict increases
                when more people are involved, and "bottom-up"
ad hoc negotiations to resolve every disagreement
                between every pair of participants just are not feasible. In many domains conflicts
                are avoided or suppressed because the parties have developed or agreed to conform to
                    standards (§7.1.5). Nevertheless, conflicts in organizing
                principles for large-scale organizing systems are often resolved by parties with the
                legal authority or economic power to impose a solution on all the participants in a
                    "top-down" manner.












10.5. Designing and Implementing an Organizing System
Requirements define what must be done
                but NOT how to do it; that's the role of the design and implementation
                phases. Being explicit about requirements and the intended scope and scale
            of an organizing system before moving onto these phases in an organizing system's
            lifecycle avoids two problems. The first is taking a narrow and short-term focus on the
            initial resources in a collection, which might not be representative of the collection
            when it reaches its planned scope and scale. This can result in overly customized and
            inflexible resource descriptions or arrangements that cannot easily accommodate the
            future growth of the collection. A second problem,
                often a corollary of the first, is not separating design principles from their
                implementation in some specific environment or technology.
10.5.1. Choosing Scope- and Scale-Appropriate Technology
A simple organizing system to satisfy personal
                    record keeping or some short-lived information management requirements can be
                    implemented using folders and files on a personal computer or by using
                        "off the shelf" generic software such as web forms,
                    spreadsheets, databases, and wikis. Other simple organizing systems run
                as applications on smart phones. Some small amount of configuration, scripting,
                structuring or programming might be involved, but in many cases this work can be
                done in an ad hoc manner. The low initial cost to get
                started with these kinds of applications must be weighed against the possible cost
                of having to redo a lot of the work later because the resources and the resource
                descriptions might not be easily exported to new ones.
More capable organizing systems that enable the persistent
                storage and efficient retrieval of large amounts of structured information resources
                generally require additional design and implementation efforts. Flat word processing
                files and spreadsheets are not adequate. Instead, XML document
                models and database schemas often must be developed to ensure more control of and
                validation of the information content and its descriptions. Software for version and
                configuration management, security and access control, query and transformation, and
                for other functions and services must also be developed to implement the organizing
                system.
Technology for organizing systems
                    will always evolve to enable new capabilities. For example, cloud
                computing and storage are radically changing the scale of organizing systems and the
                accessibility of the information they contain. It might be possible to implement
                these capabilities and services to an organizing system in an incremental fashion
                with informal design and implementation methods. If information models, processing
                logic, business rules and other constraints are encoded in the software without
                explicit traceability to requirements and design decisions the organizing system
                will be difficult to maintain if the context, scope or requirements change. This is
                why we have repeatedly emphasized the importance of architectural thinking about
                organizing systems, beginning in §1.2.3.1
                where we proposed that organizing principles should ideally be expressed in a way
                that did not assume how they would be implemented. (See
                    also §2.3.2.2, §7.1.3, and §8.1)

10.5.2. Architectural Thinking
Architectural thinking leads to more modularity
                    and abstraction in design, making it easier to change an implementation to
                    satisfy new requirements or to take advantage of new technologies or
                    procedures. It is also important to think architecturally about the
                design of the vocabularies and schemas for resource description and of
                classification systems to leave room for expansion to accommodate new resource
                    types (§6.5
                    and §7.2.2.3). Doing so is
                easier if the descriptions are logically and physically distinct from the resources
                they describe.
Stop and Think: What is a Library?
The word "library" has several meanings that differ in how
                    much architectural thinking they embody. When you tell someone you will meet
                    them at the library for a cup of coffee and a study session it is a specific
                    physical place. At other times you might use a more abstract notion of a library
                    as an organizing system with a predictable type of collection, resource
                    arrangement, and supported interactions. Both meanings are important for a city
                    creating a new library. How would you ensure that both are considered in an
                    effective way? 

Nevertheless, architectural thinking requires more careful
                analysis of resources and implementation alternatives, and most people do not think
                this way, especially for personal and informal organizing systems. You can imagine
                that someone might arrange a collection of paperback books in a small bookcase whose
                shelf height and width were perfectly suited for the paperbacks they currently own.
                However, this organizing system would not work at all for large format books, and a
                paperback could not be added to the collection unless one was purged from the
                collection. It would be more sensible to start with a bigger bookcase with
                adjustable shelves so that the organizing system would have a longer
                lifetime.
You might think that large institutional organizing systems would
                avoid these problems caused by tying a collection too tightly to the physical
                environment in which it is initially organized, but sometimes they do not. A famous
                example involves the art collection of the Barnes Foundation, which had to keep its
                paintings in the exact same crowded arrangements when the museum made a
                controversial move from a small building to a larger one because the donor had
                mandated that the paintings never be moved from their original settings. (See the
                sidebar, The Barnes Collection).
For digital resources,
                    inexpensive storage and high bandwidth have largely eliminated capacity as a
                    constraint for organizing systems, with an exception for big data,
                    which is defined as a collection of data that is too big to be managed
                        by typical database software and hardware
                    architectures. Even so, big data collections are often large but homogeneous, so their
                scale is not their most important challenge from an organizing system
                    perspective (§10.3.1).
The Barnes Collection
Albert Barnes was a chemist who made a fortune inventing a preventive treatment
                    for gonorrhea and who then amassed perhaps the greatest private art collection
                    ever, one that contained over 800 paintings by artists like Picasso, Renoir, Matisse, van Gogh, and Cezanne. In 1922 Barnes built a museum for his collection in his
                    residential neighborhood in Merion, PA, a suburb of Philadelphia. Barnes did not
                    open his collection to the public and in his will mandated that the collection
                    never be moved, loaned, or sold.
In the decades after Barnes died in 1951 the Merion museum needed
                    extensive repairs and security upgrades, and some people suggested that its
                    remote location and access restrictions jeopardized its financial viability.
                    However, a proposal to relocate the collection to Philadelphia seemingly
                    violated the terms of the Barnes will.
A legal fight dragged on for decades. Finally in 2004 a judge
                    ruled that the collection could be moved to Philadelphia, but only if the new
                    museum contained exact copies of the gallery rooms of the original museum and
                    arranged the paintings exactly as they were in Merion. The new museum building,
                    opened in 2012, is ten times larger than the old one, but the collection takes
                    up the same space as it did in Merion. The other 90% of the building is occupied
                    by an auditorium, offices, classrooms, a gift shop, and other space that
                    contains none of the collection.


10.5.3. Distinguishing Access to Resources from Resource Control
Because large resource collections are often used for multiple purposes
                by many different people or projects, they illustrate another important
                architectural issue for collections of digital resources. A
                    requirement for access to resources does not imply a need to directly own or
                    control them, and information-intensive and web-based businesses have
                    increasingly adopted organizing system designs that involve storage of digital
                    resources in the cloud, licensing of globally distributed resources, and
                    outsourcing of information services. Designs that use these
                architectural concepts can realize functional and quality improvements because the
                location and identity of the service provider is hidden by an abstraction
                    layer (§2.4.2.1, §3.4.3.5). However, separating access from
                ownership has been a cultural challenge for some libraries and museums whose
                institutional identities emphasize the resources they directly control and the
                physical buildings in which they control them.

10.5.4. Standardization and Legacy Considerations
As we noted with the Barnes Collection, a building becomes old and
                outdated over time. The technology used in digital
                    organizing systems becomes obsolete faster than physical buildings do.
                The best way to slow the inevitable transformation of today's cutting edge
                technology to tomorrow's legacy technology is to design with standard data formats,
                description vocabularies and schemas, and classification systems unless you have
                specific requirements that preclude these choices.
Even a requirement to interoperate with an
                    organizing system that uses proprietary or non-standard specifications can
                    usually be satisfied by transforming from a standard format (§7.1.5.2, §9.4).
Similarly, it is better to design the
                        APIs and data feeds of an organizing system in a generic or
                    standard way that abstracts from their hidden implementation. This design
                    principle makes it easier for external users to understand the supported
                    interactions, and also prevents disclosure of any aspects of resource
                    description or organization that provide competitive advantage. For
                example, the way in which a business classifies products, suppliers, customers, or
                employees can be competitively important.
Two important design questions that arise
                    with data transformation or conversion, whether it is required by a technology
                    upgrade or an interoperability requirement, are when to do it and where to do
                    it. The job of converting all the resources in a collection can
                typically be outsourced to a firm that specializes in format conversion or resource
                description, and a batch or pre-emptive conversion of an entire collection enables
                an upgraded or new organizing system to operate more efficiently when it is not
                distracted by ongoing conversion activity. On the other hand, if resources vary
                greatly in their frequency of use, a "do-it-yourself on-demand" method
                is probably more cost effective as long as the conversion does not impact the
                interactions that need to be supported.












10.6. Operating and Maintaining an Organizing System
After the organizing system has been designed and
                implemented it can be put into its operation and maintenance phases. We
            will look at these from two perspectives, first from the point of view of individual
            resources, and then from the point of view of the organizing system's design and
            implementation. These two perspectives are not always clearly distinguished. Curation,
            for example, is often used to describe actions taken to maintain individual resources as
            well as those that result in new arrangements of them.
10.6.1. Maintaining an Organizing System: Resource Perspective
Sometimes an organizing system is implemented
                    with its organizing structures and relationships waiting to be populated by
                    resources as they are acquired and described. The scope and scale of
                the organizing system shapes how the descriptions are created and how the
                descriptions are then used to assign resources to the logical or physical containers
                of the organizing system. The most important decisions to be made at this point
                involve determining an appropriate mix of methods for creating the resource
                descriptions, because their cost, quality, consistency, completeness, and semantic
                richness depends on which human or computational agents do the work (§4.3.6).
For web-based and consumer-focused organizing systems, it is tempting
                to rely on users to assign descriptions, tags, or ratings to resources (§4.2.2.3). Some of these systems attempt to improve the quality and precision of
                these descriptions by providing forms, controlled vocabularies, or suggestions.
                Finding a balance is tricky; too much direction and control is demotivating to
                uncompensated volunteer describers, and too little of it results in the proverbial
                    "tag soup."
An essential operational and maintenance activity is evaluation of
                resource descriptions, first with respect to the time and process by which they are
                created, and second with respect to how and when they support the designed
                    interactions (§4.3.7).
Some organizing systems are initiated with a
                    fixed set of resources that will not change in any way. For example, in
                an archive as most narrowly defined, neither the individual resources nor the
                organization of the collection as a whole will change. If an archive of Abraham
                Lincoln letters is established, we know that Lincoln will never revise any letters
                or write any new ones, and any new classifications or descriptions devised by people
                studying the archive will not be used to rearrange the letters.
Most organizing systems, however, need to support ongoing interactions
                with a collection that changes over time as new resources enter the collection and
                old ones leave. These selection and collection management processes are explicit in
                libraries, museums and similar institutions that maintain collections to satisfy the
                changing needs and preferences of their user communities
                        (§2.2.2).

10.6.2. Maintaining an Organizing System: Properties, Principles and Technology
                Perspective
It is useful to consider how an
                    organizing system as a whole is operated and maintained over time. We
                can analyze how the system's organizing properties, principles and technology might
                change, and we can roughly order different types of change according to their
                overall impact.
The most predictable maintenance
                    activities for an organizing system with an expected long lifetime
                            (§10.3.3)
                    are incremental changes in description vocabularies and classification schemes
                        (§7.2.2.3). These need
                to evolve when new instances or contexts require additional properties to maintain
                the distinctions between types of resources, but the basic principles embodied in
                the organizing systems are not affected.
Incremental category maintenance takes
                    place even in personal organizing systems where the categories are not always
                    explicit. The collection of clothes in a college student's closet and
                the categories and properties for arranging them will change somewhat when he
                graduates and takes a job in a downtown office building where he needs to dress more
                formally than he did as a student. He will learn that despite the common term in the
                category name, "student casual" and "business casual" do
                not contain the same sets of resources.
Category maintenance is an ongoing activity
                    in institutional organizing systems. The most commonly used
                bibliographic classification systems all have numbering and naming schemes that
                allow for subdivision and extension to create new subcategories to accommodate
                resources about new fields of knowledge and technology.
In contrast, changes in business organizing
                systems are more likely to be driven by economic factors. Resource properties for
                managing collections of resource and the information that describes them often
                change over time as a result of new products and services, mergers and acquisitions,
                or refined customer segmentation. More substantial changes in business organizing
                systems reflect the need to comply with laws and regulations that impose new
                requirements for tracing money flows or transactions. These mandated classifications
                and processes might require new organizing principles, not just incremental
                    properties (§7.1.5.4).
Another very predictable type of activity over time with
                organizing systems is a technology upgrade that improves its quality or capabilities
                without affecting the organizing principles. A student might replace his handwritten
                lecture notes with typed notes on a laptop or tablet computer but not significantly
                change the way the notes are organized.
Institutional organizing systems are adopting
                    tiered storage systems that automatically move resources between different types
                    of storage media to meet performance, availability and recovery
                    requirements. For example, firms with high financial impact of downtime
                like banks run critical organizing systems with copies in "failsafe" or
                    "hot" modes that are synchronized with the production environments
                to prevent any interruptions in information access if the latter are disrupted. All
                the relevant resources are immediately available. On the other hand, resources
                needed for regulatory compliance can be kept on lower cost disk storage.
The most challenging kinds of
                    maintenance activities for organizing systems involve changes to the principles
                    for arranging resources along with changes in the implementing
                    technology. An example is the ambitious effort to introduce semantic
                web and linked data concepts in bibliographic organizing systems (§5.8.2, §8.4.3). And change comes
                faster to businesses than to libraries and museums. New
                    technologies can have a disruptive impact on business organizing system, forcing
                    major changes to enable strategy changes that involve faster finding, retrieval,
                    or delivery of informational or physical goods.
Sometimes major changes to
                    organizing principles and technologies can be introduced incrementally, with
                    changes "rolled out" to different sets of resources or user groups
                    during a transition period. However, sometimes the changes are inherently "all
                    or none" because it is impossible to have two conflicting organizing systems
                    operating in the same context. An easy to understand example of an
                organizing system that changed radically is the system governing which side of the
                road you drive on, which was changed in Samoa in 2009. (See
                    the sidebar, Driving in Samoa).

Driving in Samoa
Whether you travel by bus, car, or bicycle, you always keep to one
                    side of the road. The convention of driving on either the right side or the left
                    side is a legal standard that you, and others who share the road, take for
                    granted. However, you must follow it to ensure safe driving and avoid running
                    into other vehicles and pedestrians.
This standard of which side of the road you drive on, simple as it
                    seems, was not decided arbitrarily, but rather, it was adopted as a result of
                    history, convention, and the need for organization. If you were the only person
                    in your country to use the road, you could choose to travel on any side you
                    wanted, even travel right down the middle. As soon as more than one person needs
                    to use the same road, the risk of collisions compels the creation of a
                    coordinating standard.
In 2009, the government of Samoa took the rare step of changing
                    the side of the road standard from driving on the right to driving on the left.
                    The original standard reflected the influence of German colonization in the
                    early 1900s. However, Samoa is both geographically close to and economically
                    intertwined with Australia and New Zealand, former British colonies that follow
                    the British convention of driving on the left side. This proximity gives Samoa
                    access to a nearby source of used cars that would be attractive to Samoa's
                    relatively poor population. So, the Samoan government decided to use its
                    authority to change the driving standard so that more of its people could afford
                    to buy cars.
As one could imagine, this decision was not implemented without
                    controversy and opposition. While the decision benefited people currently
                    without cars, it negatively affected those who already owned them. After a
                    switch like this, what happens to the current market value of the thousands of
                    cars designed to drive on the right? Opponents also claimed that the switch
                    would cause unprecedented safety hazards. If even a small fraction of drivers
                    were not able to immediately get the hang of driving on the other side, the
                    accident rate could increase tremendously. Imagine the current pool of buses
                    designed with doors that open on the right hand
                    side—would they now let passengers out in the middle of
                    the street? Who would pay to have the buses modified to put doors on the left
                    hand side?














Self-Review

Question









Answer




10.7. Key Points in Chapter Ten
Switch to Quiz Mode
What three ab
                            initio characteristics of an organizing system influence
                        most of the decisions about that organizing system?

Most of the specific decisions that must be made for an
                        organizing system are strongly shaped by the initial decisions about its
                        domain, scope, and scale.
See §10.2, "The Organizing System Lifecycle"

What is the effect of broad scope in an organizing
                        system?

The impact of broad scope arises more from the heterogeneity
                        of the resources and users in a collection rather than from their absolute
                        number.
See §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"

What is a practical effect of increasing collection
                        size?

Larger collections need more people to organize and maintain
                        them, creating communication and coordination problems that grow much faster
                        than the collection.
See §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"

How do you avoid problems of scope and scale?

The best way to prevent problems of scope and scale is through
                        standardization.
See §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"

What is an effect of a heterogeneous user community?

Organizing systems in the same domain and with nominally the
                        same scope can differ substantially in the resources they contain and the
                        interactions they support if they have different categories of users.
See §10.3.2, "Number and Nature of Users"

What is the single biggest factor affecting the implementation
                        of interactions?

For most organizing systems other than personal ones, the set
                        of interactions that are implemented in an organizing system is strongly
                        determined by economic factors.
See §10.4.1, "Requirements for Interactions in Organizing Systems"

What is the most essential requirement of interactions?

An essential requirement in every organizing system is
                        ensuring that the supported interactions can be discovered and invoked by
                        their intended users.
See §10.4.1, "Requirements for Interactions in Organizing Systems"

What is the role of computational agents in the creation and
                        consumption of resource descriptions?

Automated and computerized processes can create the resource
                        descriptions in an organizing system and their use is primarily driven by
                        scale.
See §10.4.2, "Requirements about the Nature and Extent of Resource Description"

What is the relationship between Organizing principles and
                        resource descriptions?

Organizing principles depend on resource
                        descriptions, so requirements for the former are always intertwined with
                        those for the latter.
See §10.4.3, "Requirements about Intentional Arrangement"

What characteristics of resource descriptions impede
                        growth?

Overly customized and inflexible resource descriptions or
                        arrangements cannot easily accommodate the future growth of the
                        collection.
See §10.5, "Designing and Implementing an Organizing System"

What are the advantages of architectural thinking?

Architectural thinking leads to more modularity and
                        abstraction in design, making it easier to change an implementation to
                        satisfy new requirements or to take advantage of new technologies or
                        procedures.
See §10.5.2, "Architectural Thinking"

What is big data?

For digital resources,
                    inexpensive storage and high bandwidth have largely eliminated capacity as a
                    constraint for organizing systems, with an exception for big data,
                    which is defined as a collection of data that is too big to be managed
                        by typical database software and hardware
                    architectures.
See §10.5.2, "Architectural Thinking"

What are the most predictable maintenance activities?

The most predictable maintenance activities for an organizing
                        system with an expected long lifetime are incremental changes in description
                        vocabularies and classification schemes.
Another very predictable type of activity over time
                        with organizing systems is a technology upgrade that improves its quality or
                        capabilities without affecting the organizing principles.
See §10.6.2, "Maintaining an Organizing System: Properties, Principles and Technology
                Perspective"

What changes in organizing systems make maintenance especially
                        difficult?

The most challenging kinds of maintenance activities
                        for organizing systems involve changes to the principles for arranging
                        resources along with changes in the implementing technology.
See §10.6.2, "Maintaining an Organizing System: Properties, Principles and Technology
                Perspective"

What six questions should be asked when approaching any
                        organizing system?

What resources are being organized? Why are the resources
                        being organized? Who does the organizing? When are the resources organized?
                        Where are the resources organized? How much are the resources organized? 
See the case studies presented in Chapter 11, "Case Studies"

Most of the specific decisions that must be made for an
                        organizing system are strongly shaped by the initial decisions about its
                        domain, scope, and scale.
See §10.2, "The Organizing System Lifecycle"

The impact of broad scope arises more from the heterogeneity
                        of the resources and users in a collection rather than from their absolute
                        number.
See §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"

Larger collections need more people to organize and maintain
                        them, creating communication and coordination problems that grow much faster
                        than the collection.
See §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"

The best way to prevent problems of scope and scale is through
                        standardization.
See §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"

Organizing systems in the same domain and with nominally the
                        same scope can differ substantially in the resources they contain and the
                        interactions they support if they have different categories of users.
See §10.3.2, "Number and Nature of Users"

For most organizing systems other than personal ones, the set
                        of interactions that are implemented in an organizing system is strongly
                        determined by economic factors.
See §10.4.1, "Requirements for Interactions in Organizing Systems"

An essential requirement in every organizing system is
                        ensuring that the supported interactions can be discovered and invoked by
                        their intended users.
See §10.4.1, "Requirements for Interactions in Organizing Systems"

Automated and computerized processes can create the resource
                        descriptions in an organizing system and their use is primarily driven by
                        scale.
See §10.4.2, "Requirements about the Nature and Extent of Resource Description"

Organizing principles depend on resource
                        descriptions, so requirements for the former are always intertwined with
                        those for the latter.
See §10.4.3, "Requirements about Intentional Arrangement"

Overly customized and inflexible resource descriptions or
                        arrangements cannot easily accommodate the future growth of the
                        collection.
See §10.5, "Designing and Implementing an Organizing System"

Architectural thinking leads to more modularity and
                        abstraction in design, making it easier to change an implementation to
                        satisfy new requirements or to take advantage of new technologies or
                        procedures.
See §10.5.2, "Architectural Thinking"

For digital resources,
                    inexpensive storage and high bandwidth have largely eliminated capacity as a
                    constraint for organizing systems, with an exception for big data,
                    which is defined as a collection of data that is too big to be managed
                        by typical database software and hardware
                    architectures.
See §10.5.2, "Architectural Thinking"

The most predictable maintenance activities for an organizing
                        system with an expected long lifetime are incremental changes in description
                        vocabularies and classification schemes.
Another very predictable type of activity over time
                        with organizing systems is a technology upgrade that improves its quality or
                        capabilities without affecting the organizing principles.
See §10.6.2, "Maintaining an Organizing System: Properties, Principles and Technology
                Perspective"

The most challenging kinds of maintenance activities
                        for organizing systems involve changes to the principles for arranging
                        resources along with changes in the implementing technology.
See §10.6.2, "Maintaining an Organizing System: Properties, Principles and Technology
                Perspective"

What resources are being organized? Why are the resources
                        being organized? Who does the organizing? When are the resources organized?
                        Where are the resources organized? How much are the resources organized? 
See the case studies presented in Chapter 11, "Case Studies"












Chapter 11. Case StudiesApplying the RoadmapRobert J. Glushko
Note
The first four case studies appeared in the first print edition of the
            book. All the others have been contributed by students or other readers of the book and
            edited for consistency. (M.M.)

We now fulfill the promise of this book, with a set of case study examples
        that apply the concepts and phases of the roadmap.
§11.1, "A Multi-generational Photo Collection"§11.2, "Knowledge Management for a Small Consulting Firm"§11.3, "Smarter Farming in Japan"§11.4, "Single-Source Textbook Publishing"§11.5, "Organizing a Kitchen"§11.6, "Netflix"§11.7, "Luxury Brand Store"§11.8, "Weekly Newspaper"§11.9, "The CODIS DNA Database"§11.10, "Ikea"§11.11, "The Antikythera Mechanism"§11.12, "My Vegetable Garden"§11.13, "IP Addressing in the Global Internet"§11.14, "Knitting Supplies"§11.15, "Making a Documentary Film"§11.16, "Your Own Case Study Goes Here"
Case Study Template
For the sake of consistency, we employ the questions posed in §1.3, "Design Decisions in Organizing Systems" as a template for the case studies. We remind you of five
            groups of design decisions, itemizing the most important dimensions in each
            group:


What is being organized? What is the scope and scale of the
                        domain? What is the mixture of physical things, digital
                        things, and information about things in the Organizing System? Is the
                        Organizing System being designed to create a new resource collection,
                        catalog an existing and closed resource collection, or manage a collection
                        in which resources are continually added or deleted? Are the resources
                        unique, or are they interchangeable members of a class? Do they follow a
                        predictable "life cycle" with a "useful
                        life"? 
                    (§1.3.2)

Why
                            is it being organized? What interactions or services will be
                        supported, and for whom? Are the uses and users known or unknown? Are the
                        users primarily people or computational processes? Does the Organizing
                        System need to satisfy personal, social, or institutional goals?
                        (§1.3.3)

How
                            much is it being organized? What is the extent, granularity,
                        or explicitness of description, classification, or relational structure
                        being imposed? Is this description and structure imposed in a centralized or
                        top-down manner or in a distributed or bottom-up manner? What organizing
                        principles guide the organization? Are all resources organized to the same
                        degree, or is the organization sparse and non-uniform?
                        (§1.3.4)

When is it being organized? Is the organization imposed on
                        resources when they are created, when they become part of the collection,
                        when interactions occur with them, just in case, just in time, all the time?
                        Is any of this organizing mandated by law or shaped by industry practices or
                        cultural tradition?
                        (§1.3.5)

How
                            or by whom, or by what computational processes, is it being
                            organized? Is the organization being performed by
                        individuals, by informal groups, by formal groups, by professionals, by
                        automated methods? Are the organizers also the users? Are there rules or
                        roles that govern the organizing activities of different individuals or
                        groups?
                        (§1.3.6)



11.1. A Multi-generational Photo Collection
Overview.  Your grandfather has died,
            at age 91, and under his bed is a suitcase containing several photo albums
                with a few hundred photos. Some of them have captions, but many do not.
            What do you do with them?
Your first thought was to create a digital photo archive of 
                Grandpa's collection so that you and all your relatives could see them, and you
            would also want to generate accurate captions where none exist. Since you have an
            extensive digital photo collection of your own in a web-based application, perhaps you
            can combine the two collections to create a multi-generational photo organizing
            system.
This project involves digitization,
                archiving, social media issues, and negotiations
            with and collecting information from other family members who might have different views
            about what to do.
What is being organized? It is easy
            to find advice about how to digitize old photos, but there are more choices than you
            might think. What resolution and format should you use? Should you do the work yourself
            or send Grandpa's precious photos to a service and take the risk that they might get
            lost? Should you do any restoration or enhancement of the photos as part of the
            digitization process?
More fundamental design questions concern the scope and scale of the
            organizing system. If you are digitizing Grandpa's photos and combining them with yours,
            you are skipping a generation. Should not you also include photos from your parents and
            the rest of Grandpa's children? That generation has both printed photos and digital
            ones, but it is not as comfortable with computers as you are, and their digital photos
            are stored less systematically on a variety of CD-ROM,
                DVDs, flash memory sticks, and SD photo cards,
            making the digitizing and organizing work more complicated. Do these differences in
            storage media reflect an intentional arrangement that needs to be preserved? And what
            about that box full of Super 8 cartridges and VHS tapes with family
            videos on them, and the audio cassettes with recordings made at long-ago family
            gatherings? 
A family history management system that includes many different
            resource types is a much bigger project than the one you contemplated when you first
            opened Grandpa's suitcase. It is easier to consider using separate but related
            organizing systems for each media type, because there are many web-based applications
            you could use. In fact, there are far too many choices of web applications for you to
            consider. You might compare some for their functionality and usability, but given 
            the long expected lifetime of your organizing system there are more critical
            considerations: whether the site is likely to last as long as your collection and, if it
            does not, how easily you can export your resources and resource descriptions.
Why is it being organized? The
            overall goal of preserving Grandpa's photos needs no justification, but is preservation
            the primary goal? Or, rather, is to enable access to the images for far-flung family
            members? Or is it to create a repository for family photos as they continue to be
            produced? Alternatively, is it less about the images themselves and perhaps more about
            collecting family history information contained in the photos, thus making the
            collection of metadata (accurate information about when and where the photo was taken,
            who is in it, etc.) most important?
These decisions determine requirements for the interactions that the
            photo organizing system must support, but the repertoire of interactions is mostly
            determined by the choice of photo storage and sharing application. Some applications
            combine photo storage in a cloud-based repository tied to a very powerful set of digital
            photography tools, but this functionality comes with complexity that would overwhelm
            your less technology-savvy relatives. They would be happy just to be able to browse and
            search for photos.
How much is it being organized?
            Because you realize that a carefully designed set of categories and a controlled tagging
            vocabulary will enable precise browsing and search, you chose an application that
            supports grouping and tagging. But not everyone should be allowed to group or tag
            photos, and maybe some of the more distant relatives can view photos but not add
            any.
Will your categories and tags include all of those that Grandpa used
            when he arranged pictures in albums and made notes on the back of many of them? Do you
            want to allow annotations? Maybe this is a picture from a vacation; if you go back to
            the same place, do you want to create an association between the pictures?
Do not forget to keep Grandpa's original albums in a safe place, not
            under a bed somewhere.
When is it being organized? Once you
            create your categories and tags, you can require people to use them when they add new
            photos to the collection. Perhaps the existing resource descriptions can be completed or
            enhanced as a collective activity at a family reunion. Do not put this off too
                long—the people who can identify Grandpa's sister Gladys, her
            second husband, and his sister in an uncaptioned photo are getting on in years.
How or by whom is it being organized?
            You have taken on the role of the editor and curator, but you cannot do everything and
            having a group of people involved will probably result in more robust organizing. A
            group can also better handle sticky situations like what to do if people get divorced or
            have a falling out with other family members; do pictures taken of or by them get
            deleted?
Other considerations. Maintenance of
            this collection for an indefinite time raises the important issue or a succession plan
            for the curator. If only one name is on the account and only that person knows the
            password, you run the risk of losing access to the photos if that person dies. One of
            Grandpa's mistakes was dying without clearly specifying his intentions for his photo
            collection, so whatever you decide you should document carefully and include a
            continuity plan when you are no longer the curator.












11.2. Knowledge Management for a Small Consulting Firm
Overview.  A senior professor who has
            done part-time consulting for many years is very pleased when his latest book becomes a
            best-seller and he is inundated with new consulting opportunities. He decides to take a
            two-year leave of absence from his university to start a small consulting firm with
            several of his current and former graduate students as his junior consulting
            partners.
An organizing system for knowledge management is required, but what
            gets designed will depend on the scoping decision. Is the goal of the system to support
            the consulting business, or also to support ongoing and future research projects that
            sooner or later will generate the consulting opportunities? 
What is being organized? The
            professor concludes that since his consulting is based on his research, he needs to
            include in the new knowledge management system his research articles and the raw and
            analyzed data that is discussed in the articles. These resources are already organized
            to a great extent according to the research project that led to their creation. These
            have been kept in the professor's university office.
The professor also has a separate collection of consulting proposals,
            client reports, and presentations that he has made at client firms. Because of
            restrictive university rules about faculty consulting, the professor has always kept
            these resources in his home office rather than on campus.
In addition to these existing resource types, it will be necessary to
            create new ones that make systematic and explicit information that the professor has
            managed in an informal and largely tacit manner. This includes consulting inquiries,
            information about prospects, and information about specific people in client
            firms.
Why is it being organized? The
            professor has usually just done one consulting project at a time, very
            opportunistically. He has often turned down projects that involved more work than he
            could do himself. He now sees the opportunity to do much more consulting and to take on
            more significant projects if he can leverage his expertise in a more efficient
            way.
The professor can take on the "rainmaker" role to secure new
            consulting engagements and make the important decisions, and he is confident that he can
            train and support his new staff of current and former students to do much of the actual
            consulting work.
The knowledge management system must enable everyone in the firm to
            access and contribute to project repositories that contain proposals, plans, work in
            progress, and project deliverables. Much of this work can be reused from one project to
            another, increasing the productivity of the firm and the quality of its
                deliverables.
Just as it is essential that the professor's knowledge is systematized
            and made available via a knowledge management system, so must the knowledge created by
            the new staff of consultants. The professor cannot expect that all of the students will
            work for him forever, so any knowledge that they acquire and create in the course of
            their work will be lost to the firm unless it is captured along with the
            professor's.
The consulting firm probably will not have an indefinite lifetime. After
            his leave of absence, the professor might return to his university duties, perhaps on a
            part-time basis. The knowledge management system will enable him to leave the firm in
            someone else's hands while enabling him to keep tabs on and possibly contribute to
            ongoing projects. Alternatively, if the firm is doing very well, perhaps the professor
            will resign his university position and take on the role of growing the firm. A larger
            consultancy might want to acquire the professor's firm, and the firm's valuation will in
            part be determined be the extent to which the firm's capabilities and resources are
            documented in the knowledge management system.
How much is it being organized? A
            small firm has neither the money nor the people to invest in complex technology and a
            rigorous process for knowledge management, but appropriate technology is readily
            available and affordable. Decisions about organizing principles must be made that
            reflect the mix of consulting projects; resources might be organized in a shared file
            system by customer type, project type, the lead consultant, or all of these ways using a
            faceted classification approach.
Standard document templates and style sheets for the resource types
            created by consultants can be integrated into word processors and spreadsheets. Contact
            and customer management functionality can be licensed as a hosted application.
Many small teams make good use of wikis for knowledge management
            because they are very flexible in the amount of structure they impose.
When is it being organized? The
            professor's decision to take a leave of absence reflects his belief that getting the
            firm started quickly is essential if he is to capitalize on his recent bestselling book
            to generate consulting business. This makes managing the prospect pipeline and the
            proposal-writing process the highest priority targets for knowledge management.
Much of the other organizing work can emerge as adjuncts to consulting
            projects if some effort is made to coordinate the organizing across projects.
How or by whom is it being organized?
            Because many of the early organizing decisions have implications for the types of
            customers and projects that the firm can take on, only the professor is capable of
            making most of them. The principal goal of the knowledge management system is to enable
            the professor to delegate work to his consulting staff, so he needs to enlist them in
            the design of the organizing system to ensure it is effective.
Other considerations. As the
            consulting firm grows, it is inevitable that some consultants will be better than others
            at creating and using knowledge to create customer value, and they will expect to be
            compensated accordingly. It is essential for the ongoing success of the firm not to let
            this create disincentives for knowledge capture and sharing between consultants. The
            solution is to develop a company culture that promotes and rewards them.











11.3. Smarter Farming in Japan
Overview.  Unlike the first two case
            studies, this is an actual case rather than a hypothetical or composite one. It shares
            with the first two cases a focus on preserving valuable resources but in the radically
            different domain of farming.
This case concerns an initiative by Fujitsu, a Japanese technology
            firm, to apply "smart computing" and lean manufacturing techniques to the agricultural
            sector, which lags in technology use. Fujitsu is testing a "farm work management system"
            at six Japanese farms. In this case study we will focus on the farm highlighted in a
            2011 Wall Street Journal story.
This test farm is located in southern Japan. It has 60 different crops
            spread over 100 hectares (about 250 acres), an area slightly larger than the central
            campus of the University of California at Berkeley.
What is being organized? Sensors are
            deployed in each of 300 different farm plots to collect readings on temperature, soil,
            and moisture levels. Video cameras also monitor each plot.
The 72 relatively unskilled workers on the farm are also managed resources.
            Each of them carries a mobile phone for communication, transmission of pictures, and
            GPS tracking of their location.
Why is it being organized? The
            highest-level goal for Fujitsu is to expand its reach as a technology firm by applying
            the concepts of lean manufacturing, statistical process control, and continual
            improvement to new domains. Farming is an obvious choice in Japan because it is a
            relatively unproductive sector where the average age is over sixty. It is essential that
            farms use more computing capability to increase efficiency and to capture and reuse the
            scarce knowledge possessed by aging workers.
The Fujitsu farm work management system supports numerous types of
            interactions to achieve these goals. For example, workers can send pictures of infected
            crops for diagnosis by an expert farmer in the farm's office, who can then investigate
            further by studying recorded video from the affected plot.
As more farms deploy the Fujitsu system, the aggregated knowledge and
            sensor information can be analyzed to enable economies of scale that will allow separate
            and widely distributed farms to function as if they were all part of a single large firm
            with centralized management.
How much is it being organized? The
            current design of the system treats farm workers as relatively passive resources that
            are managed very closely. The system generates a daily schedule of planting,
            maintenance, harvesting, and other activities for each worker. At a daily wrap-up
            meeting the farm manager reviews each worker's performance based on GPS
            and sensor readings.
The sensor data is analyzed and organized extensively by Fujitsu
            computers to make recommendations, both agricultural ones (e.g., what crop grows best in
            each plot and the work schedule that optimizes quality and yield) and business ones
            (the profitability of growing this crop on this plot of land).
When is it being organized? The farm
            work management system is continually organizing and reorganizing what it knows about
            the farm as it analyzes sensor and production information. In contrast, the information
            created by the workers is captured but its analysis is deferred to an expert.
It is conceivable that as the farm workers become more expert as a result of
            the guidance and instruction they receive from the system that they can be more
            autonomous and do more analysis and interpretation on their own. It is also likely that
            the inexorable forces of Moore's law will enable more data collection and more
            processing of the sensor data at its time of collection, which might result in increased
            real-time information exchange with the workers.
How or by whom is it being organized? The
            physical organization of the farm, with 300 small plots of land with 60 different fruits
            and vegetables, is the legacy arrangement of the farm before the Fujitsu trial began.
            Because of the sizable investment that Fujitsu has made in the farm to deploy the
            system, it is likely that the farm manager defers to recommendations made by the system
            to change crop arrangements. So it is reasonable to conclude that most of the decisions
            about the organizing system are made by computational processes rather than by
            people.
Other considerations. Fujitsu built
            this system for managing farms, but there are several other resource domains with
            similar challenges about capturing and reusing operational knowledge: vineyards,
            forests, and fish farms come to mind. It will be interesting to see if the farm work management system can be made
            more abstract and configurable so that the same system can be used in all of these
            domains.
Farm crops, vineyards, trees, and fish pens do not move around, so a
            more challenging application of sensor technologies arises with cattle herd management.
            Nevertheless, sensors inserted in the genitals of a female dairy cow can trigger a text
            message to a herd manager's cell phone when the cow is in heat, preventing the economic
            loss of missing a reproductive cycle.
Somewhat more remote domains for potential application of systems that
            combine sensor networks with workforce management include sales, field support, and
            logistics.











11.4. Single-Source Textbook Publishing
Overview.  The fourth case is also an
            actual case - a self-referential one. It is a case study about the organizing system
            involved in the creation, production, and distribution of The
                Discipline of Organizing.
We have known since the beginning of this project that this book
            should not just be a conventional text. A printed book is an intellectual snapshot that
            is already dated in many respects the day it is published. In addition, the pedagogical
            goal of The Discipline of Organizing as a textbook
            for information schools and similar programs is made more difficult by the relentless
            growth of computing capability and the resulting technology innovation in our
            information-intensive economy and culture. We think that the emergence of ebook
            publishing opens up innovative possibilities as long as we can use a single set of
            source files to produce and update the print and digital versions of this book.
What is being organized? The content
            of this book began in early 2010 as more than 1000 slides and associated instructor
            notes for a graduate course "Information Organizing and Retrieval" that
            Robert J. Glushko, the primary author and editor of TDO, was
            teaching at the University of California, Berkeley. These slides and notes were created
            in XML and transformed to HTML for presentation in a web browser.
The first decision to be made about resource organization led to the
            iterative sorting of the slides from 26 lectures into the 10 chapters in the initial
            outline for the book. The second decision concerned the granularity of the new content
            resources being created for the book. The team of authors was organized by chapters,
            which made chapters the natural granularity for file management and version control.
            Because authors were widely dispersed we relied on the Dropbox cloud storage service to
            synchronize work. Nevertheless, the broad and deep topical coverage of the book meant
            that chapters had substantial internal structure (four levels of headings in some
            places), and many of these subsections became separately identified resources that moved
            from chapter to chapter until they found their natural home.
In addition to the text content and illustrations that make up the
            printed text, we needed to organize short videos, interactive examples, and other
            applications to incorporate in digital versions of the book.
Finally, it has been essential to view the software that transforms,
            assembles, formats, and assigns styles when turning source files into deliverable
            artifacts as resources that must be managed. We have been fortunate to get much of the
            software required to build a print book from O'Reilly and Associates, an innovative
            technology publisher that has been developing an XML-based
            single-source publishing system called Atlas.
Why is it being organized? Publishing print
            and ebook versions of a text from the same source files is the only way to produce both
            in a cost-effective and maintainable fashion. Approaches that require any
                "hand-crafting" would make it impossible to revise the book on a timely
            schedule. Furthermore, a survey of Berkeley students in the summer of 2012 revealed a
            great diversity of preferred platforms for reading digital books that included laptop
            computers, Apple and Android tablets, and seven different dedicated ebook readers. Only
            an automated single-source publishing strategy could produce all these outputs.
The highly granular structure for the content resources that comprise
            this book makes cross-referencing vastly more precise, making it easier to use the book
            as a textbook and job aid. It will also make it easier to maintain and adapt the text
            for use in online courses. (The emerging best practice for online courses is to break up
            lectures and study content into smaller units than used in traditional classroom
            lectures.) 
How much is it being organized? The
            nature and extent of resource organization for this book reflects its purpose of
            bringing together multiple disciplines that recognize organizing as a fundamental issue
            but from different perspectives. The book contains many specialized topics and
            domain-specific examples that might overwhelm the shared concepts. Our solution was to
            write a lean core text and to move much of the disciplinary and domain-specific content
            into tagged endnotes. These categories of endnotes are somewhat arbitrary, but the
            authoring task of identifying content to go into endnotes is a non-trivial one.
The extent of resource organization is also affected by the choice of
                XML vocabulary, and we carefully considered whether to choose
                DITA or DocBook. DITA has the benefit of having
            more native support for modular authoring and transparent customization and updating,
            but DocBook is much older and hence has better toolkits. We eventually chose
                DocBook.
When is it being organized? Despite the
            fact that the lecture notes with which the book began were in XML, we
            decided to author the book using Microsoft Word. Many of the authors had little
            experience with XML editors, and the highly developed commenting and
            revision management facilities in Word proved very useful. This tradeoff imposed the
            burden of converting files to XML during the production process, but
            only two of the authors were still working on the book at that stage, and both have
            decades of experience with hypertext markup languages.
How or by whom is it being organized?
            The chapter authors used Word style sheets in a careful manner, tagging text with styles
            rather than using formatting overrides. This enabled a conversion vendor to convert most
            of the book from Word to XML semi-automatically. Some cleanup of the
            markup is inevitable because of the ambiguity created when the source markup with Word
            styles is less granular than the target markup in XML. We do not know
            whether the amount of work left for us was atypical.
Nevertheless, waiting until the book was substantially finished to
            convert to XML meant that we were also deferring the effort to mark up
            the text with cross references, citations, glossary terms, and index entries, because
            these types of content were not included in the Word authoring templates and style
            sheets. As a result, a substantial amount of effort has been required of our copy and
            markup editor that could have been done by chapter editors if they had authored natively
            in XML. However, having a single markup editor has given this book a
            more consistent and complete bibliography, glossary, and index than would be have
            possible with multiple authors.
Other considerations. Our ambitious
            effort to use tagged endnotes to create a book that could meet the needs of different
            courses and academic programs is a bit ahead of its time, because the current generation
            of ebook readers cannot do it justice. We are working on a next-generation ebook
            application that can create a vastly more engaging and integrated reader experience with
            the tagged endnotes. Instead of requiring the reader to follow a hypertext link, our
            ebook application will present selectable icons that dynamically transclude the endnote
            text into the core text. Furthermore, we are making the set of endnote types completely
            extensible. In addition to the six types that occur in the book as first published, any
            instructor or institution will be able to can create other endnote types to meet new
            requirements for customization.
This design for a book challenges conventional definitions of book
            editions and forces us to imagine new ways to acknowledge collaborative authorship. But
            asking "What is The Discipline of Organizing?," given
            these new authoring and publishing models, is a similar question to the one asked in
                Chapter 3, "What is
                Macbeth?" 











11.5. Organizing a Kitchen
By 
            Emilie Hardman, April 2013.
Overview. Just about everyone has a
            kitchen in their home or apartment, and most kitchens contain many of the same
            resources. These include pots and pans, dishes, bowls, drinking glasses, silverware, and
            cooking tools of various kinds. Kitchens are also often the location for organizing food
            items, cooking ingredients, spices, wine, and other beverages. Kitchens also invariably
            contain refrigerators and freezers for storing prepared and preserved food. 
The organizing system for a kitchen is highly influenced by the size,
            shape, and arrangement of the counters, cabinets, shelves, and other parts of the
            physical environment of the kitchen. A person building a new home might be able to
            design this kitchen environment, but most people treat this as a given and work within
            its affordances, often because there are limits to how much the physical environment can
            be easily changed. 
Kitchen Organizing System


My kitchen. I did my annual
                                deep kitchen clean and felt like it warranted a
                            picture.
(Photo by 
                            Emilie Hardman.
                            Creative Commons CC-BY-SA-2.0 license.)



What is being organized? Our wine,
            wine glasses, cocktail glasses and ingredients, as well as tea and coffee stuff were
            stored in the cabinet by the fridge, close to the center worktable so people could have
            easy access to them. Because of space limitations, this meant that our water glasses had
            to be somewhere else, but as we would usually put out water for dinner parties or have a
            pitcher and glasses on a tray when people came over, we thought this was reasonable,
            since the things people would most often be looking for and need easy access to for
            themselves would be these more social drinking glasses.
We also bought a freestanding worktable with a butcher's block and
            stainless steel for pastry and chocolate work, as well as extra counter space in
            general. It worked as a prep space and as an area to lay out finished dishes or drinks
            for people to serve themselves when we had parties.
Some kitchen tools were kept with the food items to which they
            applied: for example, the coffee and the coffee grinder, or the cutting board, toaster,
            bread knife and bread all together. Other tools were kept with like tools: potato
            peelers, julienne tools, knives, etc. This was probably because of the kind of
            flexibility something like a potato peeler would have versus a coffee grinder;
            it also made more sense to put lots of these little things together in a
            drawer rather than leave them strewn out around the apples or potatoes.
Pots and pans had their own spaces and were stacked within one
            another; same with dishes. Most frequently used things were given preference over
            specialty tools.
Other things that were organized around the social dimensions of the
            kitchen were some food items and serving elements. For example, we used bowls to
            organize chocolate bars and treats that might easily be grabbed to set out and serve.
            Similarly, we kept stacks of serving bowls easily at hand so we could empty pretzels or
            tortilla chips, olives, etc., quickly and casually.
Why is it being organized? We wanted
            to emphasize a feeling of comfort and openness in our kitchen, so people would feel free
            to get what they wanted when they needed it. It also had to work on a practical level to
            be an efficient work area in a small space, so those concerns had to be balanced as
            well.
When is it being organized? We ended
            up moving silverware at one point because friends would consistently open a particular
            drawer in our center work island to look for silverware. Initially, I had specialized
            tools in that drawer because they were what I would reach for when I was working on
            something like making chocolates, but because of the continuous confusion, we moved
            those tools to another drawer and put the silverware where people seemed to expect
            it.
The fridge and freezer was organized by type of food for orderliness,
            ease of access, and immediacy of knowing when we had. We have a pull-out freezer, so
            things could get a little hidden, but assuming no one had compromised the system, you would
            know it was frozen fruit all of the way down in one segment and flours in
            another.
Some food items demanded different placement or storage based on their
            ripeness, the season, etc. In August we might be overrun with tomatoes, for example, and
            the window sills would fill up with them, whereas we would usually put them in a bowl if
            there were just a few.
How or by whom is it being organized?
            I think one thing to sum up would be to say that my partner is a librarian and I am
            trained as an archivist. We both care about classification and public service, so as
            people who also entertain a lot, I think these very practical and intuitive systems of
            grouping things is a motivation. 
My father, an engineer who in his retirement does a lot of
            woodworking, built two cabinets that would just fit into the space
            and provide more storage than the two upper cabinets and three base cabinets provided in
            the kitchen.
Other considerations. The whole
            kitchen was not organized around guests, though. We also arranged things to be practical
            for cooking and for space saving. Food in the cabinets was organized by general
            function: for example, there was a shelf of dried beans in jars, another of dried
            chilies and spices—things that give flavor. Spices were organized within that by general
            type in rows and then alphabetically within those rows. This was because the rows helped
            group things which might be likely used together (e.g., cinnamon, cloves, mace, nutmeg)
            and alphabetically because so many of them look the same from the outside; knowing that
            the oregano would necessarily be shelved before the thyme was useful. Beans, though,
            because they are more immediately identifiable, less used, and certainly not as often
            used in concert (as one would with spices), I was a little more loose with and sometimes
            just arranged to a general aesthetic preference; if we had heirloom money beans, I might
            have preferred to see them over the standard red lentils, for example.











11.6. Netflix
By Ishita Ghosh, December 2013.
Overview. This is a case study of
                Netflix, an on-demand Internet streaming media service.
            It is certainly interesting to see how Netflix organizes
            media so as to make their content more discoverable for users. Therefore, this case
            study will focus on Netflix's organizing of their media from the customer perspective,
            such that they are better able to discover, sort, and interact with the media resources,
            which in turns renders this process seamless at the user end.
                Netflix separated its digital content from its physical
                DVDs service, although it must be noted that titles that are
            available on DVD will still show up on the search bar in Netflix's
            online portal.
What is being organized? The
            resources in question are the different types of media that broadly includes movies and
            television content. These resources may already be organized to some basic extent based
            on simple, explicit tags such as language, basic genre (e.g., comedy, drama, romance,
            but not more complicated categories that Netflix eventually
            generates, such as "cerebral dramas") etc. The current scope and scale of
            Netflix's organizational system seems dependent on individual agreements with various
            production houses, which in turn determines what resources become digital content that
            can be streamed on-demand, versus what resources are physical
            DVDs.
Why is it being organized? The
            resources are being organized to ensure easier and smoother discoverability by
                Netflix users, that not only reflects the popular tastes
            of Netflix users at large, but more specifically, and perhaps
            more persuasively, reflects the user's own personal tastes, are determined through a
            combination of review and rating mechanisms. Eventually,
                Netflix's goal is to provide a seamless media viewing
            experience for its users, without too much exertion on the part of users. Therefore,
            organizing the media resources in an optimal manner (irrespective of
                Netflix's actual database size, as long as it remains
            relevant to the users), that lets users find media that is suited to their preferences,
            will ensure that they keep coming back to the platform to continue viewing
                Netflix's media. To this end,
                Netflix supports different types of interactions. These
            interactions include searching, viewing, and reviewing on the part of the users. More
            specifically, the user can find media explicitly using the search bar on the top right
            (i.e., they already know the titles they want to view), or discover media using
                Netflix's pre-sorted genres (e.g., classics, comedies,
            cult movies, etc.), or through a more personalized interaction that takes the user's
            preferences into consideration (the account user will be greeted with recommendations
            such as "because you watched 30 Rock..." and then a
            host of content similar to this will be presented; or be shown certain categories
            exclusively, such as "cerebral dramas", based on a user's tastes,
            trajectories, as well as the completion of ongoing surveys).
How much is it being organized?
            Evidently, Netflix has the capacity as well as the
            infrastructure to implement highly complex organizing. The same resource may be
            organized across different categories. Broadly speaking,
                Netflix sorts these resources into basic, familiar
            genres, and may further add a level of granularity to these (i.e., certain resources
            under dramas may be further categorized into cerebral dramas). The same resource might
            then find itself into a "You may also like" categorization based on the
            user's personal preferences. Eventually, Netflix's goal
            remains to provide a seamless searching and viewing experience for its users. Broadly
            speaking, Netflix achieves this by a general sorting based on
            the resources' descriptive properties (what basic genre does it belong to? what
            language?), but adds further granularity to this based on esoteric tagging, user reviews
            and ratings, as well as their viewing histories. Certainly, the extent of resource
            organization for a given user will also depend on how much that user views, as well as
            rates and reviews, the digital content on Netflix.
When is it being organized? The
            resources are being organized on two levels for users to better discover and access
            them. At one level, Netflix is continually employing the services of its in-house team
            as well as a small, esoteric, external team of "taggers" (e.g., documentary
            filmmakers) to continually organize Netflix's media content
            into pre-determined or emerging genres. However, Netflix also
            organizes at another level, based on personal preferences. This organization happens as
            and when the user reviews, rates, and views existing media. This seems the most feasible
            solution in order to accommodate both highly active users (they will have more
            tailor-made recommendations) as well as more inactive users (their personalized
            preferences might be lacking, but at least Netflix can offer
            them some basic recommendations).
How or by whom is it being organized?
            As mentioned previously, Netflix has an in-house team of
                "organizers" as well as an external team of "taggers" (who
            are typically movie experts in their own right) who essentially tag
                Netflix's digital content and sort into pre-determined as
            well as emerging categories. Furthermore, ongoing ratings and reviews by the general
            corpus of Netflix users determines what is popular, leading to yet another
            categorization that is displayed prominently on the top of the homepage, "Popular
                on Netflix."
Netflix also uses automated processes that are able to
            determine, sort, and articulate this crowd-sourced information. Therefore, a combination
            of people and computation processes make the decisions about the organizing system; this
            makes the scale of Netflix's vast digital content as well as
            user-generated information manageable, especially as it is organized by elected people,
            automated algorithms, and by the bottom-up labors of its audience. This is certainly
            preferable to just restricting the organizational activities to people (too slow) or to
            computational processes (devoid of crowd-sourced/user preferences).
Other considerations.
Netflix has not attempted to integrate social media into
            their existing model. This may offer a new peer-review organizational capability to
            their existing organizational structure that may be immensely valuable for users. If
            computational processes can determine peers with similar tastes, even inactive users can
            be privy to more salient and better tailored recommendations, undoubtedly an attractive
            proposition.











11.7. Luxury Brand Store
By Ankita Bhosle, December 2013.
Overview. Clothing is one of the rare
            commodities that people usually prefer to visit a physical store for, rather than
            purchasing online. This is because online shopping cannot replace the experience of
            shopping in-store, especially since trial of clothes is such an important part of buying
            them. Since the primary purpose of these resources is to clothe and adorn the body, the
            fit, color, suitability for particular body types are important factors influencing the
            decision of buying (or not buying) them. Hence, the design of physical stores/boutiques
            for showcasing apparel is important, especially so for luxury brands with small and
            highly specialized collections. I am really fascinated by the thought that goes into
            organizing apparel for display (and sale) in such stores. I find this interesting
            because I am a shopaholic, and I think the design decisions behind the organization of
            resources in luxury stores relate to impulsive buying tendencies of consumers, and
            subsequent increase in sales. Organization strategy is at the heart of manipulating,
            shaping, and possibly even controlling consumer behavior in luxury retail
                stores.
What is being organized? The
            (physical) things being organized in a luxury store would be apparel, accessories
            (scarves, footwear, bags, jewelry, watches, belts, etc.), cosmetics and lifestyle
            products. The racks, tables, mannequins and pedestals that are used to display the
            resources are also part of the organizing system. Catalogs or "lookbooks,"
            labels on racks and on the products - all descriptions of the resources - are also
            organized. The sparse furniture (a sofa or two, billing counter, security sensors at
            entrance, seats to try on shoes) along with separate areas for trial rooms, restroom,
            and back room for inventory need to be organized too. A luxury store also usually has
            some props, lighting, and art works that are strategically placed to lend an ambiance
            that aligns well with the design aesthetic of the store and showcases the resources
                "in the right light." All these resources form the organizing ecosystem
            of a luxury store. For the sake of convenience, I would like to take into account only
            non-human resources (no store personnel). Also, the digital and online inventories of
            the resources in the store are out of the scope of this case study. 
Why is it being organized? The
            primary purpose would be merchandizing - to showcase, display, or present the products;
            afford interactions (e.g., trial and buying); and induce and promote sales. On a higher
            level, it facilitates accessing the objects in this ecosystem and performing operations
            and interactions (e.g., browsing, selecting, trying and buying) on them. The principal
            motivation behind organization of retail assets is attracting or enticing customers to
            increase sales of the resources. Maintaining orderliness, monitoring and tracking
            activity inside the store are other purposes.
How much is it being organized? The
            extent of organization is not very uniform across the store, with some parts being more
            granular than others. The newest collections are generally very well organized, with a
            well-defined structure and considering possible relations between objects (e.g.,
            matching garments, pairing items with one another). The clearance section is usually
            disorganized and haphazard, with items on sale thrown in a box or strewn across a few
            tables or racks. The organization principles followed are motivated by different
            purposes: they can be utility/convenience based (e.g., all pants together, all coats
            together, etc.) or more innovative and specialized (e.g., if a new collection is
            composed of mainly two-three colors, all items of the same color, garments, shoes, bags,
            etc., are clustered together for aesthetic effect and to create an impact). Thus, the
            properties of the resources play an important part in their organization. In addition,
            clothing it usually organized by size when there are many otherwise identical instances
            of the same type.
When is it being organized? When a
            new collection arrives, it gets the highest priority. This new collection is now
            organized in a more granular manner, whereas the older one, which was the highly
            organized one earlier, gets demoted, and is now organized in a less granular, more
            general manner. This reorganization strategy is implemented to highlight and draw
            attention onto the newest collections, and capitalize on the buzz and novelty. Even the
            props and lighting in the store are adjusted and re-organized accordingly. Apart from
            this, there would also be some routine re-organization at the start or end of a day, as
            a maintenance activity, though this would probably be more of a "putting things
                back into place" task than an actual unique activity. There are also some
            periodic changes in the organization strategies, as may be dictated by changes in brand
            policies or marketing and merchandizing strategies, causing potential reshuffling of the
            items in the system.
How or by whom is it being organized?
            The organization activities would most likely be performed by the store personnel as per
            the merchandising strategy of the brand and in adherence to the store policies. However,
            the actual design of the organization is done by merchandizing experts, whereas the
            implementation is done by the store personnel.
Other considerations. It would be
            interesting to see how the organizing system changes if the physical location of the
            store changes. The original theme, with its interplay of different organization
            principles, has to be retained and implemented in the new premises, while at the same
            time maintaining uniformity across all outlets of the same brand. Standardization is the
            answer to this problem and can be used to impose uniformity in the luxury brand store as
            well as across all outlets of the same brand.











11.8. Weekly Newspaper
By Ian MacFarland, December 2013.
Overview. A weekly neighborhood
            newspaper in New York City now covers the entire borough of Queens. Rather than publish
            a single weekly edition for this highly diverse area of more than 2 million people, its
            owners have opted to produce 14 separate editions, each centered on a different
            neighborhood. All editions share a deadline, delivery schedule, and staff pool, but each
            has unique content tailored to its target readers.
What is being organized? The
            newspaper's resources — its content — consist mainly of articles and photos generated by
            staff and freelance contributors throughout the week. Often, newspapers will assign
            their reporters to beats based on subject matter (politics, education, "cops and
                courts," etc.), making them domain experts who cover stories on that beat
            throughout a wide geographical area. However, because of this paper's historical
            orientation toward "hyper-local" neighborhood news, it has given each of
            its seven full-time reporters a more granular geographical beat that corresponds to two
            of the 14 editions' coverage areas, within which they are responsible for general
            assignment reporting. Most reporters also have a specialty for covering news that is of
            more general interest throughout the borough, such as citywide government or
            transportation issues, and they will include coverage of these domains in their story
            budgets for the week as well. The staff maintains a centralized story list that includes
            a handful of resource descriptions for each story: its slug (an abbreviated, descriptive
            name, including tags for its relevant neighborhoods), its length, and whether it has
                "art."
Why is it being organized? The media
            market in New York is crowded and extremely competitive, and this newspaper believes its
            competitive edge lies in its laser-focus on individual neighborhoods. Furthermore, most
            of its readers are subscribers who receive the paper in the mail, not newsstand buyers.
            As a result, the paper generally eschews the familiar tabloid approach of splashing the
            most salacious story of the week across the front page and usually fronts two stories
            that are "small-bore" but extremely relevant to the neighborhood, such as
            the doings of local school or government officials, notable crimes, or human-interest
            stories featuring neighborhood residents. The deeper into the paper one goes, the less
            local its content becomes, and stories often appear in more than one edition, in
            different locations and even with different headlines, to tailor them to an appropriate
            level of localization. 
On a more general level, of course, the paper must support the
            conventional interactions all readers expect from newspapers. Readers are rarely
            expected to progress through the paper from front to back, so it supports a wide variety
            of reading styles; large headlines and photos and concise, compelling story
                "ledes" (opening paragraphs) facilitate skimming and scanning
            interactions, and dividing the paper into sections, such as "Opinion,"
"Sports," and "Arts & Entertainment," lets readers skip
            directly to their areas of interest after turning past page one.
How much is it being organized? The
            level of organization behind the scenes at this small, local newspaper is surprisingly
            complex. The primary organizing principle that determines a story's placement is its
            relevance, which is a function of location granularity (does it directly affect the
            people of this neighborhood? Did it happen here?), significance (will readers find it
            important?), and time (is it old news? Has anyone else reported it yet?).
            Counterbalancing that is the economic reality of the struggling newspaper industry,
            which results in often severely limited space for the news (because paper and press time
            are costly physical constraints) and manpower with which to produce all 14 editions
            before deadline. The result is a hierarchical system in which the 14 editions are
            categorized into three zones; in each zone, about two-thirds of the pages are common to
            all editions, and the remaining third (including, most crucially, pages one through
            three) are unique to each single edition. Thus, for instance, a general-interest story
            about transportation need not be laid out 14 separate times, but one about a fatal car
            accident can appear on page one for the neighborhoods where it occurred and where the
            victims were from, and further back (or not at all) for other neighborhoods.
When is it being organized? In a
            weekly news cycle, selection, creation, and organizing of editorial resources is largely
            concurrent. The story list is updated on a rolling basis throughout the week, and an
            article or photo's placement in the paper is often planned based on its intended subject
            matter well in advance of when the resource is actually created. However, organizing
            must be completed long before it reaches its intended users, because the final layouts
            must be printed, collated, and mailed to readers, which, due to logistical concerns,
            takes several days - so the paper is laid out on Tuesday (as late as possible to
            maximize the window for ad sales), printed on Wednesday, and delivered by the
                Postal Service on Thursday or Friday.
How or by whom is it being organized?
            Human agents — specifically, editors — are the newspaper's primary organizers. They rely
            heavily on the judgment of the reporters, who are most familiar with their beats, to
            determine a story's relevance and placement for each edition, as well as their own news
            judgment, assessment of the story's quality, and estimation of where the story will
            physically fit based on ad placements (which are decided first). The implementation of
            their organizing system is carried out by page layout designers, with some software
            automation on the part of the paper's content management system.
Other considerations. Part of the
            grind of a weekly news cycle is that the effectivity of the paper's resources is never
            guaranteed; when the next edition comes out, they all become yesterday's news, and one
            never knows when new developments will render a story irrelevant or incorrect; in fact,
            because of the latency between layout and delivery, a story's effectivity may even
            expire before its publication.











11.9. The CODIS DNA Database
By Becca Stanger, December 2013.
Overview. Operating on a local,
            state, and federal level, the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS) is the FBI
DNA database. As of October 2013, the National DNA Index (NDIS), or the federal level of the CODIS, contained over
            10,647,800 offender profiles, 1,677,100 arrestee profiles, and 522,200 forensic
            profiles. Designed to help solve crimes, this database has generated over 255,400 hits
            and has aided over 216,200 investigations. While this organizing system has played a
            crucial role in reducing crime by enabling more interactions in the law enforcement
            agency than ever before, it provokes numerous ethical questions worth exploring.
What is being organized? The
                CODIS database maintains digital records or
                    "DNA profiles" for a wide range of people involved
            in criminal justice cases, including convicted offenders, arrestees, missing persons,
            and more. Specifically, these profiles are measurements of one or two alleles of 13
            predetermined unique genetic sequence loci. These precise measurements provide enough
            granularity for the profiles to uniquely identify a single individual. 
These resource descriptions are generated, often with polymerase chain
            reaction technology, from the original DNA specimen resources by
            accredited laboratories nationwide. Upon creation, the resources themselves - the
            specimens - are kept at the laboratories, while the resource descriptions - the digital
            profiles - are added to the CODIS database. No offender personal
            identifiers are assigned to the profiles; however, information on the submitting agency,
            specimen, and personnel is stored with the profile.
Rather than focusing on collecting resource descriptions, the
                FBI could have chosen to collect the original resources themselves.
            Presumably, though, this level of coordination of physical resources (e.g., shipping,
            storage, maintenance, etc.) would have placed an additional cost on the federal
            government and required legislative approval. Thus, it's understandable that the
                FBI would choose to minimize cost and effort by focusing on the
            resource descriptions alone.
Why is it being organized? In the
            past, law enforcement agencies were limited to solving crimes within their geographic
            region. A detective working on a murder in California, for example, may never have heard
            of a related murder in New York. The CODIS database organizing system
            encourages that coordination between law enforcement agencies in an effort to solve
            crimes. 
With 10,647,800 offender profiles in the NDIS alone,
            though, the massive CODIS database required an organizing system in
            order to prove useful to the law enforcement agencies involved. The successful creation
            and maintenance of this organizing system has offered newfound interactions to a wide
            variety of government officials. In addition to law enforcement agencies, judicial
            courts, criminal defense agencies, and population statistics agencies can access the
                CODIS organizing system, enabling them to perform a wide variety of
            functions, including identifying potential suspects in criminal investigations,
            identifying missing persons, collecting population statistics, and exonerating convicted
            criminals.
How much is it being organized? As
            mentioned previously, the high degree of resource description granularity in measuring
            13 specific genetic sequence loci enables DNA profiles to uniquely
            identify each individual in the database. That being said, the DNA
            profiles are not simply heaped into one massive database. 
Instead, the databases are maintained on both a state and federal
            level. A new profile might be checked against a smaller state database as well as the
            larger national one. In addition, the databases are divided into different indices
            dependent on the DNA source, including an offender index, arrestee
            index, forensic index, and missing persons index. 
This division of the database into separate indices poses a tradeoff
            dilemma, though. If CODIS did not subdivide the database into federal,
            state and source indices, it is possible the algorithm would be able to find more
            obscure hits, since the search parameters would be broadened. This increase in hit
            frequency might result in more investigations aided. 
The tradeoff, however, is that the broadened search parameters would
            also necessitate a more complex search algorithm and a longer search process. This delay
            would most likely lead to fewer hits overall. Thus, in government institutions where
            time and resources are limited, it is more important for the CODIS
            organizing system users to generate a larger number of hits with subdivided databases
            than more accurate hits in one collective database. Categories in the
                CODIS organizing system help simplify the interaction
            processes.
When is it being organized?
DNA profiles enter the CODIS organizing system when
            participating, accredited local, state, and federal laboratories submit them. Thus, the
            laboratory technicians handling the resource and resource description decide on a
            case-by-case basis how a given profile should be categorized and which indices it should
            be added to and checked against. 
That being said, the lab technicians are given strict standards on how
            a given DNA profile should be categorized. These standards vary state
            by state depending on state law. 
How or by whom is it being organized?
            Beyond laboratory and state involvement in CODIS, the
                FBI ultimately maintains and oversees the CODIS
            database. It maintains the software and search algorithms, performs searches throughout
            the system, and oversees strict quality assurance standards for all participating
            laboratories. 
To avoid the risk of bias or error amongst lab technicians, the
                FBI could potentially choose to instead perform the laboratory
            processing and categorization themselves. This alteration, however, would present new
            challenges, such as new federal costs related to maintaining and processing the
            resources mentioned previously. In addition, pulling together all resources into a
                FBI processing center would necessitate a meticulous record of the
            resource's originating state to ensure resource descriptions are categorized in
            accordance with state laws. The FBI's strict maintenance of standards
            and laws is the best option for addressing the risk of error and bias.
Other considerations. The
                CODIS organizing system presents a wide range of intriguing ethical
            questions surrounding race, gender, criminal justice, and privacy. Perhaps the most
            hotly debated issue surrounding DNA databases arose when the private
                DNA testing company 23andMe announced that it
            would discontinue the sale of its genetic tests in response to FDA
            demands, prompting more media questions than ever before on the maintenance and use of
                DNA databases. 
Likewise, many have questioned the legitimacy of the
                CODIS maintenance of DNA profiles. The
                ACLU, for example, has noted the possibility of "function
                creep" in the maintenance of a government DNA database which could lead our
            country down a slippery slope towards a "brave new world" where private
            genetic information could be collected and used in abusive, discriminating manners. 
With the commercial surveillance of 23andMe and
            government surveillance by the NSA at the forefront of media attention,
            it is possible we will see more attention turned to the legitimacy of the maintenance of
            the CODIS organizing system in the coming years. 











11.10. Ikea
 By Sandra Lee, December 2013.
Overview.
Ikea is much more than a furniture store. It is a highly organized
            system that successfully draws customers in, makes them linger there, and induces them
            to purchase something, while also delivering an unbeatable customer experience. The
            experience is so enjoyable that customers often come back just for fun, whether it is to
            casually browse, hang out with a friend, bring the kids to play, or even go on a date.
            What are some of the underlying design decisions that create this
                Ikea experience?
What is being organized?
Ikea organizes many different types of resources, including
            furniture, household goods and appliances, and food. Resources are not unique because
            there are many duplicate copies of the same resource, which can take different forms in
            each instance. The furniture that the customer sees and interacts with in the showroom
            is only the display copy of that furniture; what they actually purchase is another
            instance that is disassembled and stored in the warehouse. Similarly, customers can buy
            and consume warm and prepared foods in the cafeteria (Swedish meatballs with gravy), or
            they can purchase the same type of food in a packaged form to bring home (frozen Swedish
            meatballs). Apart from organizing the resources for sale, Ikea also
            organizes information about those resources in the form of physical reference ID tags on
            the furniture and digital descriptions of each resource that is displayed on the
            website.
Why is it being organized? All of the
            resources are strategically organized in the building to enhance customer experience and
            incentivize customers to purchase their products. The store is laid out in a way that
            leads all customers along a path that passes through showrooms made to look like an
            actual bedroom, living room, kitchen, etc. This implicitly forces customers pass through
            and look at almost everything in the store. Usually, along the way, certain products
            will appeal to customers and cause them to stop and linger even if they had not planned
            to purchase anything in that section. After customers are tired and hungry from walking
            through all the showrooms, there is a strategically placed cafeteria in the middle that
            offers food and refreshments. At the end, when customers are done purchasing their
            items, there is a food stand right by the checkout selling hot dogs and ice cream cones.
            The store layout is intentionally designed to make customers linger, offer refreshments
            when they get hungry, purchase more items, and still go home happy with the experience. 
Resources are also organized to enable certain sets of interactions.
            The display furniture is arranged to look like an actual bedroom or kitchen, etc, which
            allows customers to critically observe a piece of furniture in its proper context, touch
            it, sit on it, and determine whether they want to purchase it or not. In this way, the
            showroom acts as a tangible interface that allows users to interact and access
            information about the furniture. Information about the resource is displayed on tags on
            each display furniture, and customers write down the ID of the item they are purchasing.
            This allows customers to find the same furniture later in the warehouse. Furniture in
            the warehouse is disassembled, packaged into flat boxes, and stacked, because the
            overall goal here is to optimize storage space and facilitate transportation. Besides
            reference IDs on all the boxes, resource descriptions on the boxes include a helpful
            sketch of the furniture and the color, to help the customer verify that they are
            purchasing an instance of the resource type they saw on display. 
How much is it being organized? A lot
            of detail and effort is put into organizing and arranging the display furniture in the
            showroom, because that is the main interface for customers. First items are arranged in
            an aesthetically pleasing manner to draw the customer's attention. Every single resource
            needs to have very specific placement in order to reflect a real setting of a room. For
            example, coffee tables must go next to the couches and vases on top of tables or
            shelves. All display furniture also has reference tags that allow customers to search
            for the same furniture type later on in the warehouse. On the other hand, household
            items in the Market Hall, are not organized with such great detail. Like most other
            stores, similar resource types are grouped together based on intended uses (e.g.,
            kitchenware, bathroom items) and duplicates of the same resources are just placed
            together on a shelf or container. In the warehouse, each unique instance of packaged
            furniture is assigned a unique ID so Ikea can keep track of its
            inventory and sales. This important information is then channeled through the
                Ikea website, so customers can check online whether or
            not an item is in stock in a particular store.
When is it being organized? The
            packaged Ikea furniture is organized in the warehouse as soon as new
            shipments come in. The display furniture is arranged seasonally to reflect the newest
            designs that are coming in. Product information is updated nightly or every couple days
            to collect the current stock levels at each Ikea store and update the
            website.
How or by whom is it being organized?
Ikea store manager or designers oversee the design and arrangement of
            the showroom. Other employees organize the packaged furniture when they receive and
            unload shipments. Some organization is automatic. Every time a customer purchases
            furniture, the barcode on the package is scanned, and the inventory is automatically
            updated in the database.
Other considerations. There are
            always some tradeoffs in every design decision. While Ikea is a great
            place to spend a lot of time browsing, it is not well-suited for those customers who
            want to quickly search for specific item and leave. It first takes a long time for
            customers to navigate through the store to get to the right section. And within that
            section, it is often difficult to find the exact location of the item. Smaller items
            such as towels may appear multiple times throughout the store in the Market Hall and the
            warehouse. This further adds further confusion in the search process. But in the end,
            the Ikea design prioritizes browsing rather than precise searches for a single
            item.











11.11. The Antikythera Mechanism
By Murray Maloney, 2 March 2014.
Overview. In 1900, a strange looking
            mechanical device was recovered from a shipwreck off of the island of Antikythera,
            Greece. Only in the 1970s was it determined that the device was an ancient mechanical
            computer that performed astronomical calculations; it had a manual crank control with a
            rate of one turn per day, forward or backward in time; its user interface presented
            calendrical, solar, lunar, and planetary positions. The Antikythera Mechanism calculated
            the position of the moon by employing five gear trains to take into account the Metonic,
            Olympiad, Callipic, Saros, and Exeligmos cycles. Thus, it was able to predict the
            seasons, the dates of Olympiads, solar and lunar eclipses, and rising times of
            well-known stars.
The Antikythera Mechanism persists through time as a collection of
            artifacts and a model of intellectual achievement. Thought to have been constructed by
            Archimedes at Syracuse 
            or by Posidonius at Rhodes, the mechanism was recovered from a
            ship wreck near the Greek island of Antikythera in 1900-1. The significance of the find
            only began to become apparent in the 1970s when researchers applied modern scanning
                technology.
The Antikythera Mechanism


The Antikythera
                                    Mechanism exhibit at the National
                                    Archaeological Museum of Athens.
(Photo by Tilemahos Efthimiadis.
                                    CC-BY-2.0 license.)




What is being organized? The
            Antikythera Mechanism was an arrangement of resource descriptions that represented a
            classical sol-lunar calendar, complete with an almanac of the positions of the sun,
            moon, planets, and specific stars over time. The resource descriptions are represented
            simply by the measurements of the gears, and the corresponding information that is
            displayed on the front and rear panels, based on the position of the gears. These
            resource descriptions accounted for the range of known astronomical phenomena at the
            time. 
The Antikythera Mechanism


A recreation of the Antikythera
                                Mechanism on display at the National Archaeological Museum
                                    of Athens.
(Photo by Tilemahos Efthimiadis.
                            CC-BY-2.0 license.)




Why is it being organized? From a
            purely pragmatic perspective, the Antikythera Mechanism would have been used to
            accurately reckon the calendar and to navigate the globe. The Antikythera Mechanism was
            a relatively portable calendar, astrolabe, and global positioning, computational device,
            circa the 1st century BCE. With this device the mistakes of the Julian calendar could
            have been avoided. 
How much is it being organized? Some
            of the major fragments are on display at the National Archaeological Museum of
                Athens; the others are stored.
The Antikythera Mechanism is reported to have had about thirty gears
            within a frame whose size was less than the volume of a large book. The level of
            miniaturization and the precision of fabrication was not thereafter seen until the next
            millennium. The engineering and machining would have required trial models, accurate
            plans, and custom tooling. There have been various modern attempts to re-create the
            Antikythera Mechanism, or at least to re-create the model it seems to have
                manifested.
When is it being organized? The
            person who operates the mechanism turns a hand-operated crank to establish a date, or
            contra-wise confirms the current date by taking sightings and comparing with the dial
            settings. The front face offers a solar-lunar calendar dial, a tropical zodiac dial, and
            an almanac dial with rising and setting times of various stars. The rear panel offers
            dials representing the five lunar cycles.
The organization of the engineering data required to build, operate,
            and maintain the Antikythera Mechanism is staggering to imagine, yet it pales in
            comparison to the organization required to collect and archive astronomical sightings on
            clay tablets for hundreds of years. (See the sidebar, A Cuneiform Document at the Pergamon.)
The organization of the fragments of the Antikythera Mechanism is in
            the hands of the Bronze Collection of the National Archeological Museum in
                Athens. 
How or by whom is it being organized?
            Chaldean priests, Greek astronomers, Roman engineers, and modern curators and
            researchers.
In 1978, 
            Jacques Cousteau led an expedition to the sea bed and
            returned some historical artifacts, that, while unrelated to the Antikythera Mechanism
            itself, provide additional historical context and may help date the discovery.
Other considerations. From the
            perspective of one ship's unlucky captain and crew, the Antikythera Mechanism was likely
            just a piece of cargo, although it may have accompanied an equally unlucky passenger
            carrying the world's first computer to
                Caesar's court in Rome. It remains
            unknown how or why the device was aboard the ship or what fate befell it, but that is a
            story for researchers and historians to uncover in the fulness of time.
Related Readings See §3.5, "Resources over Time"











11.12. My Vegetable Garden
By Shaun Giudici, December 2013.
Overview. This case study concerns a
            vegetable garden, specifically the one I maintained from my childhood until I moved away
            from home at age 22. Both my father and grandfather taught me a lot about gardening; in
            some sense I consider domain-specific knowledge to be a resource in the organizing
            system. However, in this case study I focus on more measurable resources and
            interactions of my vegetable garden. Gardens, especially those used to grow crops,
            undergo frequent change. After a brief overview of the seasonal cycle, I emphasize the
            organization of space and layout of plants in the garden. 
A healthy garden requires maintenance year-round. Preparation begins
            in the fall by turning under the previous year's crops along with other yard trimmings
            and lime, to balance soil pH. In the early spring months we begin the germination
            process indoors, heating greenhouses in the cool New England climate. When warmer
            temperatures emerge, we begin to plant directly in the garden. A lot of organization
            goes into deciding how to lay out a garden for the season; here our adventure begins. A
            garden ready for planting is a beautiful thing. It is a blank slate, with the exception
            of some perennials, and the affordances seem unlimited. Oh, the organizing
            possibilities!
What is being organized? We are
            creating an intentional arrangement of different genus of plants into areas of the
            garden. Some plants are germinated from seed indoors and later moved outdoors when the
            weather gets warmer. Others are planted directly into the garden. A select few are
            perennial, meaning they occupy their space in the garden all year round and will not be
            moved. Considerations must be made on the basis of expected plant size at maturity,
            direction of growth, and environment requirements such as level of sunlight needed.
            Other materials are organized as well, such as grass clippings, which are placed between
            plantings to suppress weeds and promote a healthier growing environment.
Organized in Rows


The carefully constructed rows of the author's vegetable garden 
                            maximize the crop yield while allowing room for important interactions 
                            such as systematic watering and efficient harvesting.
(Photo 
                            by Shaun Giudici. 
                            Used with permission.)



Why is it being organized? We
            organize our vegetable garden to provide high crop yields in a limited space. We also
            aim to enable better interactions during the growing season by creating watering zones
            and walking paths for the gardeners. Another consideration is the harvest. It is easier
            to walk up and down a row of corn to pick ears than it is if the 50 plants were
            scattered about. 
Arrangement of the garden also takes into account the complementary
            nature of some plants. Benefits can be had by planting certain plants in close proximity
            to others. Garlic is a great example, as it helps protect other plants from disease due
            to its accumulation of sulfur, a natural fungicide. Garlic also deters insects such as
            aphids. There are plants that complement it well, such as tomatoes, peppers, and
            eggplants. On the flip side, garlic has been known to stunt the growth of nearby beans
            and peas. 
How much is it being organized? The
            users of the garden are mostly myself, Dad, and Grandpa, who are all considered
                "power users." Since we all know what to watch out for, we use minimal
            markings in our garden. Communal gardens, or those that exist for tourist viewing might
            have increased markers. This could mean guiding people around plants to avoid trampling,
            or signage to indicate the name or variety of a type of plant. 
We organize the garden to support some basic interactions of walking
            between rows, bringing in a hose and sprinkler, and harvesting efficiently. Twine and
            stakes are used during the planting process to mark clear rows. This helps keep plants
            aligned and maximizes the space while also providing clear corridors for walking. Many
            of the plants are organized at planting time and then left to themselves to rise up as
            nature intended. In some cases intervention is necessary. Vining plants, for example,
            receive "training," a physical intervention of guiding growth up trellises or away from
            other plants that may become suffocated. Tomatoes require more attention after planting,
            as they are grown upwards against stakes and need to be tied to the support as they grow
            taller, else they risk breaking under their own weight. 
When is it being organized? Planting
            time is when we do a bulk of our organization. It is at this point that we need to have
            the proper foresight to know how large a plant will grow, and therefore how much spacing
            is needed between plants. Different plants also thrive in different seasons and
            climates. Imagine it is springtime; you hear more and more birds chirping outside each
            morning, the temperatures at night are getting to the high 40s and 50s [degrees F] which
            is well out of frost territory. Our classification system of plants in our inventory
            includes the recommended planting time for our climate zone and we choose to start with
            broccoli and lettuce, because we know that they can still thrive in these cool spring
            temperatures. By the time summer hits, much of the lettuce harvest will be complete and
            we can reuse that space for heat-loving plants such as cucumbers and tomatoes.
How or by whom is it being organized?
            As the gardener, I do the organizing. In the early days I would actually measure out
            each row, marking lines and digging in uniform rows. Inevitably I would try to squeeze
            too many plants into a space and my knowledgeable fathers, power users of the garden
            themselves, would provide their input. In some cases I learned the hard way, with plants
            that grossly overcrowded each other.
Other considerations. Starting
            vegetable gardens from seed can be a high-loss endeavor. We must prepare ahead of time
            for seeds that will never sprout and plants that will not survive the initial planting.
            Constant monitoring of plant health and replacement of fallen soldiers is important to
            maintaining a high-yield and healthy garden.











11.13. IP Addressing in the Global Internet
By Andrew McConachie, December 2013.
Overview. Most people take for
            granted that the Internet just works. They connect their computer to the Internet, it
            gets an IP address, and they are able to communicate with a computer
            with a different IP address on the other side of the planet. How did
            their computer get the correct IP address? How does any computer or
            router get the correct IP address? How did the routers and other
            computers on the Internet get their IP addresses? Who decides which
            computers and which routers get which IP addresses? 
What is being organized? At their
            simplest, an IPv4 address is a 32-bit series of 0′s and 1′s. They are
            resources that are born-digital, as they have no canonical physical representation.
            Their digital canonical representation, with which we have all become familiar, is
            called the "dotted quad" format and is 4 numbers between 0-255 separated
            with dots. For example, 169.229.216.200 is the IPv4 address for
                www.berkeley.edu. 
Not all IP addresses are of equivalent classes. There
            are unicast, multicast, broadcast, and experimental IPv4 addresses, and unicast
            addresses can be either public or private. There are also two different versions of
                IP addresses currently in use on the Internet,
                IPv4 and IPv6. We will focus on IPv4 unicast
            public IP addresses, since these are not only the most common, but also
            the most important. This is roughly the range of IP addresses from
            1.0.0.0 to 223.255.255.255, with some breaks in the middle for private
                IP address space.
Why is it being organized?
IP addresses are the foundation of network connectivity and the Internet; 
            they identify each device on a computer network and also serve as its address, 
            so that routers and other devices can locate and communicate with it. 
            You can't get online without one. 
            
            IP addresses can be represented into blocks, or subnetworks, using a
            prefix and a mask. For example, 169.229.216.0/24 represents all IP
            addresses in the range of 169.229.216.1 - 169.229.216.255. Internet routers do not have
            enough memory to hold routes for every individual IP address on the
            Internet. So by organizing the Internet into subnetworks based loosely on a hierarchical
            model, routers are able to determine the correct path for every destination in the
            network without actually storing every address in their memory. If the organization of
                IP addresses is not handled properly, Internet routers would
            exhaust their memory space and parts of the Internet would become unreachable.
How much is it being organized?
            Currently there is too much granularity in the global Internet routing table. For a
            router it takes the same amount of memory to store a subnetwork with 255
                IP addresses as it does to store a subnetwork with 65536 addresses.
            So if our main concern is to minimize memory usage in Internet routers, thereby lowering
            operator costs and increasing stability, we want as little granularity as possible in
            the Internet routing table. The problem is that many organizations use non-contiguous
                IP subnetworks that cannot be aggregated into larger subnetworks.
            This results in routers having to store many small subnetworks instead of fewer larger
            subnetworks, which will eventually lead to memory exhaustion in older routers and
            possible reachability issues. Currently the full Internet routing table is approaching
            500,000 routes. Most network engineers expect problems once the routing table grows past
            512,000 entries, since router memory limitations are always at bit boundaries.
When is it being organized?
IP addresses are organized once someone configures one on a device or
            sets up a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server. If an organization exhausts their supply of free
                IP addresses. it will have to make a request to the upstream
            provider or Regional Internet Registry (RIR) for more address space. In the early days of the Internet, large blocks
            of IP addresses were given to organizations, but this led to many of
            the addresses in these blocks not being used. We are now reaching a point where we no
            longer have new addresses to assign to organizations. 
Markets are now emerging for organizations to buy and sell
                IP addresses, and the organizations who have held on to large
            amounts of unused addressing space stand to make significant revenue from selling their
            unused space. The problem with this is that when these organizations sell their unused
                IP address space, they will break up large allocations into smaller
            subnetworks, thereby increasing granularity and further accelerating the growth of the
            Internet routing table.
How or by whom is it being organized?
            The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) is currently responsible for initial allocation of IP
            addresses. They allocate 8 blocks of IP addresses to
                RIRs, who are then responsible for distributing allocations to
            organizations that request them. These organizations can then allocate
                IP addresses to smaller organizations, thus forming a loose
            hierarchy of organizations, where each level lower in the hierarchy receives a subset of
            the IP address space from the organization above it.
                ICANN no longer has any /8 blocks of IP addresses
            left to allocate to RIRs. Once all of the RIRs have
            exhausted their last allocations from ICANN, organizations will have to
            rely on secondary markets to increase their IP address space.
OTHE CONSIDERATIONS The world of
                IP addressing will soon get a lot more interesting. The
            introduction of IPv6 as a replacement for IPv4 has
            been slow in coming and, while gathering momentum, continues at a snail's pace. As
            organizations start purchasing IP addresses from one another, we should
            expect increased granularity and decreased stability in the Internet routing
            infrastructure. Whether or not normal internet users notice will ultimately be
            determined by how well equipment vendors and engineers expediently address the coming
            problems.











11.14. Knitting Supplies
By Molly Robison, December 2013.
Overview. There are a lot of
            artifacts involved in knitting: needles and yarn, of course, but also notions such as
            darning needles and stitch markers. How do you keep them organized so that the
            collection does not take up too much space in your one-bedroom apartment, but you can
            still easily access everything? My own collection of knitting paraphernalia is organized
            in a few different ways, detailed below. This organization system involves a hierarchy
            of faceted classification, physical space constraints, and some unique interactions that
            need to be designed for.
What is being organized? Not all yarn
            is created equal. There are different weights: from very thin yarn for lace and socks to
            very thick yarn for blankets or crafts; different fibers: man-made fibers like acrylic
            and nylon and natural fibers like cotton and all the different types of wool; and colors
            and patterns. There are also extrinsic properties like what I plan to do with it or
            where it came from. As well as yarn, a lot of different kinds of knitting needles are in
            the collection: straight, circular, and double-pointed needles of varying length, made
            of wood and aluminum and in sizes 0 to 18. There are also "notions", such
            as point protectors, stitch markers, darning needles, stitch counters, scissors, and
            measuring tape. Patterns are specifically not in this organizing system, since they are
            either books, organized with books, or on the Internet, organized through
                Ravelry.
Why is it being organized? The main
            interaction that is being organized for in this system is selection: making sure that I
            can find my size 6 circular needles, and also that I can pick out yarn(s) to make a
            project. Since the collection of yarn is so large, though, I do not know exactly what I
            have, so selection is often more a process of exploratory search than known-item search.
            Selecting two (or more) different yarns for the same project is a similar process of
            exploratory search, but only for one value of the material facet. (Different materials
            act in different ways, especially in terms of how they have to be washed, so you
            generally do not want to use two yarns that are made of different things in one
            project). Co-location is important for the yarns, to facilitate this process of
            exploratory search.
Facets in Yarn Classification


When searching her yarn collection for the right bolt of yarn for a project, 
                            the author must consider the available resources in terms of both color (above) and material weight.
(Photos by
                             Molly Robison. 
                            Used with permission.)



How much is it being organized? There
            are five containers that my collections is in: one box-style needle case where I keep
            the smaller of my set of straight bamboo needles; one roll-up needle case where I keep
            circular needles, straight needles that are not part of the set, and the bamboo straight
            needles that will not fit in the box; one small pouch where I keep really small needles,
            notions, and crochet hooks; a vintage train case where I keep particularly
                "nice" yarn; and a huge wire basket, about the size of a laundry
            basket, where I keep the rest of my yarn. 
As should be apparent by now, this is about the most idiosyncratic
            organizing system of which you have ever heard. It definitely will not outlive me,
            probably would not outlive moving to a bigger apartment, and definitely will not outlive
            moving to a house (where there will be room to implement something that makes a little
            more sense). All of these decisions have reasons behind them, though, although they were
            not logical or even particularly well-considered. For example: I started out keeping all
            of my yarn in the train case, but as the collection grew (quite sharply at one point,
            when I was given a garbage bag full of yarn), I had to move to a bigger container,
            stored in the closet, and kept the train case out with what I was currently working on.
            When I moved the bulk of the stash to the wire basket, I kept the nice yarn in the train
            case so it would not get snagged. 
The basis of this organizing system is hierarchical faceted
            classification. So, for yarn, we start with "nice" or not, which depends on whether it
            has sentimental value, how much I paid for it, what it's made of, whether or not I have
            plans for it, and other such factors. After that, the classification is no longer
            physically apparent, since it's all just in a big basket, but it still exists: material,
            color, yardage, etc. That being said, I do tend to have recently-used yarn at the top of
            the basket, because the basket operates as a stack, and yarn that I particularly like at
            the top of the basket, just because I like having it prominently displayed.
When is it being organized? Resources
            are initially classified upon addition: whenever I buy some new yarn or a new set of
            needles I have to decide where to put them, and therefore where they fit in the
            organizing system. There's also some periodic maintenance, and re-organizing all of the
            needles and leftover yarn after finishing a project.
How or by whom is it being organized?
            For my collection, I am the only person who does the organizing. The system is not
            codified at all, and even if someone had all the organizing principles written down they
            would not be able to successfully maintain the system because so many of those
            principles are subjective. (For example: what yarn feels gross? What has sentimental
            value? What yarn am I probably going to use to make socks? Which needles are
            slippery?)
Other considerations.: Because the
            resources in this collection get used up over time, culling is a large part of
            maintenance. Periodically, I have to go through and weed out yarns that do not have
            enough left to make anything out of, or that have gotten too snarled to work with, or,
            surprisingly often, that I am not sure why I even had in the first place. There is a
            specific type of knitting pattern, called a stash-buster, meant to deal with these odds
            and ends left over from various projects, so a small amount of yarn is not useless by
            default, but has to be considered within the collection as a whole.











11.15. Making a Documentary Film
By Suhaib Syed, December 2013.
Overview. As part of a small crew, I
            was in pursuit of making a documentary film shedding light on the problems in the higher
            education system in India. We had traveled far and wide, capturing many
            thought-provoking stories, illuminating interviews, and shocking truths. Due to the
            relatively small crew and a tight schedule, we ended up with our raw footage being
            labeled in a generic format (MVI_1234 etc.). I, being the director, had the task of
            assisting the editor in renaming and reorganizing the files to make our lives easier, do
            justice to all the efforts that were put into capturing all the clips, and incorporate
            them in an impactful manner.
What is being organized? The primary
            resources being organized were the video clips (digital, shot on DSLRs)
            acquired during the shoot. In this context, they could be classified as passive
            resources having no real capability to produce any significant value on their own, and
            which had to be acted upon or interacted with to produce any effect. But the key problem
            here was to formulate usable resource descriptions based on the following resource
            properties:
Intrinsic static
Date and time of creation, duration of the clip, type of
                        external lighting used, camera used, lens used, exposure,
                            ISO, white balance, frame rate, compression type
Extrinsic static
Shot sequence number (assigned to each story element
                        during story-boarding), shot movement type (dolly, follow focus, zoom,
                        macro, etc.)

During this particular stage, the intrinsic and extrinsic dynamic
            properties did not play a large role in the resource descriptions. 
We had done a lot of work on story-boarding and identified the right
            level of granularity so that we could capture each shot sequence separately, so we
            directly used the shot sequence number as an important part of the resource description.
            This helped us keeping our descriptions short and meaningful. 
Additionally, we realized that the corresponding audio clips captured
            along with the video also had to be organized, but since the two were intricately linked
            to each other we decided to use the same name as the corresponding video clip, the only
            difference being the extension. We relied on the editing software to capture the
            intrinsic static properties of the audio files (e.g., bit rate and compression
            type).
Why is it being organized?
            Essentially, we were organizing these digital resources to find, identify, and select
            them so as to weave a powerful narrative enabling us to convey the truth in an impactful
            manner. 
Hence, the interactions were directly with the primary
            resource. 
The interactions that had to be supported by our organization scheme
            involved:


Finding the clips related to a particular story-board
                        section 

Selecting the best set of clips to be included in the film
                        based on relevance to story, progression, continuation and several other
                        inter-connected factors 

Manipulating the clip (i.e., color-correcting, white
                        balancing, and stabilizing) to create an aesthetic effect 

Matching the video of a clip to corresponding audio
                        recording 

Adding the right background score based on sentiment being
                        portrayed in the clips and the progression of the story 

Providing subtitles in case of a foreign language or
                        incoherent speech 


How much is it being organized? Since
            the scope and size of our organizing system was relatively limited and all the resources
            were already available, we were able to make some bold decisions without causing a lot
            of problems. We formed a controlled, vertical vocabulary for resource description by
            deliberately choosing certain resource properties over others. Our main objective was to
            keep the description as short as possible and at the same time convey the most valuable
            information that would help us interact with the resources (i.e., the video clips). 
We could have easily opted for a date- and time-stamp based id and
            every resource in a collection (i.e., clips specific to one camera) would have a unique
            identifier, but we realized that our cameras already attached this information to the
            file along with the technical details like frame rate, aperture, shutter speed,
                ISO, and white balance, which our operating system and editing
            software could easily capture, display, and search through, hence, we decided not to use
            these details. 
We also decided not to include important lighting condition properties
            (kino-flo, LeikoLite, etc.) and location, because the first frame in most of our clips
            consisted of the clap-board which contained all of this information, and our editing
            software showed all the video files as thumbnails using first frame of the video. 
Thus we leveraged all of these to form a controlled vocabulary that
            placed the shot sequence number first, followed by the take number followed by camera
            identifier (e.g., camA, camB, etc.). For instance: 2A_1_camB. 
However, we did realize that these decisions were specific to our OS
            and video editing software and hence lacked interoperability. 
When is it being organized? In our
            case, although we intended to organize the resources as soon as they were acquired, we
            failed and then came up with an organizing system after all the resources were acquired.
            We leveraged this fact to our benefit and formed a more specific description
            system.
How or by whom is it being organized?
            Ideally it is the role of the first assistant cinematographer (AC),
            even 2nd or 3rd AC (depending on the budget), to make sure all the file
            names are stored properly and all the cards properly backed up. But due to our
            limitations we (i.e., the director and cinematographer) collaborated to organize the set
            of raw footage.
Other considerations. One important
            consideration that we left out in the discussion was the need for certain people
            appearing in the documentary to have their identity hidden by means of facial blurring
            and voice modulation. Although we could not accommodate this interaction of identifying
            which clips had footage of people who did not want to reveal themselves, we could easily
            add the special effects over an entire sequence once all the clips were brought
            together.











11.16. Your Own Case Study Goes Here
We have reached the end of this book, but we are just at the beginning
            of The Discipline Of Organizing. We hope that we
            have demonstrated why thinking of the art and science of organizing in a more abstract
            way can enable communication and cooperation across the numerous disciplines that are
            concerned with organizing, especially library and information science, computer science,
            informatics, law, economics, and business. Instead of just appropriating concepts and
            methods from these fields, we have tried to unify them, filling in the gaps between
            their complementary perspectives to yield a more comprehensive and generative
            understanding of how they fit together.
Now it is your turn. Perhaps you have a job in one of the fields we
            have brought together that involves organizing resources of one type or another. After
            reading this book, you surely will not approach that work the same way you did before. You
            will be able to apply the design patterns and principles of The Discipline of Organizing to make your existing organizing systems
            more capable, and will be able to create entirely new ones that fill the white space
            between the traditional categories.
We encourage people who read this book to contribute their own case
            studies at DisciplineOfOrganizing.org, and we expect to incorporate the most
            interesting and entertaining ones into this collection.
        











Acknowledgments
Robert J. Glushko

Philosophers, scientists, designers, and many others have sought to make sense of how we
        organize our physical and intellectual worlds for over two thousand years. We owe a great
        general obligation to all of them, so we dedicated this book to them. However, it is more
        important to acknowledge more specifically the people who made this Discipline of Organizing
        book happen. I think it is befitting of a book about organizing to be organized in making
        these acknowledgments, as follows in three categories:
The Motivators
Annalee Saxenian, the Dean of the UC Berkeley School of
            Information, challenged me in 2005 to teach the "Information
            Organization and Retrieval" course required of all entering graduate students and
        provided me with a supportive environment in which to do it. The lecture notes of my
        predecessors, Berkeley colleagues Marti Hearst, Ray Larson, and Mark Davis, provided important intellectual scaffolding as I
        developed my own syllabus and lectures.
When I discovered the little red book by 
        Elaine Svenonius, 
        The Intellectual Foundation of Information Organization, 
        my mind opened up to library and information science. I
        aspired to write a book that could build on and broaden those foundations to connect with my
        own background in cognitive and computer science.  A few months later when I met Elaine I was very pleased when she endorsed this ambitious effort.
I have been continually encouraged by faculty members and deans whenever I talked about
        this project at Schools of Information or similar academic units. These include the U.S.
        universities of Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, and North Carolina, Canadian universities
        of Toronto and Western Ontario, and European universities in Vienna and Berlin. In
        particular, I would like to thank 
        Colin Allen, 
        Ron Day, 
        Miles Efron, 
        Thomas Finholt, 
        Dan O'Hair, 
        Margaret Hedstrom, 
        Michael Jones, 
        John King, 
        Kathryn LaBarre, 
        Kelly Lyons, 
        Gary Marchionini, 
        Jerry McDonough, 
        Allen Renear, 
        Seamus Ross, 
        Victoria Rubin, 
        Michael Seadle, and
        Linda Smith. 
        I especially appreciate the encouragement that Deans Marchionini and Seadle
        gave to 
        Ryan Shaw and 
        Vivien Petras, 
        two of the principal authors of this book. I apologize
        to those of you that I have forgotten to list here.
Margy Avery 
        of The MIT Press has pushed hard when she needed to and has been very receptive
        when I needed her to be.
The Contributors
It took me four years of teaching the IO & IR course at Berkeley before I knew enough
        (or too little) to think I could put together a book that might replace the diverse set of
        textbooks that course was using. I did not realize at the time how much I was learning from
        these teaching assistants, and I thank them for not making it obvious to me. Later on, after
        the book project was underway, my teaching assistants were invaluable in pointing out
        problems with the book, often proposing their solutions as well.
Almost exactly three years ago the project to write this book began in a graduate seminar
        whose goals were to define the topical coverage and structure of the book, and then to write
        chapters starting with my course lecture notes. Among the courageous students in that
        seminar were many authors of the book being published here: 
        Rachelle Annechino, 
        J.J.M. Ekaterin, 
        Ryan Greenberg, 
        Jess Hemerly, 
        Michael Manoochehri, 
        Sean Marimpietri, 
        Kimra McPherson, 
        Karen Nomorosa, 
        Hyunwoo Park, 
        Dan Turner, and 
        Longhao Wang. 
        Nick Doty, 
        Mohit Gupta, 
        Erin Knight, and 
        Joyce Tsai 
        also contributed during this start-up period.
In Spring 2011 Erik Wilde and I conducted a seminar titled "Principles
            and Patterns of Organizing Systems" to refine the key concepts of the evolving
        book. This seminar added Brendan Curran, Krishna Janakiraman, Julian Limon, Rowyn McDonald, Elisa Oreglia, Monica Rosenberg, Karen Rustad, Bailey Smith, Leslie Tom, and Anne Wootton to the growing set of student contributors.
        Leslie gets credit for the book's title.
In Spring 2012 
        Andrea Angquist, 
        Jacob Portnoff, and 
        Brian Rea, supervised capably by 
        Anne Wootton, 
        were essential editorial assistants in my end-to-end effort to rewrite the drafts
        of Chapters 1-7 to improve their conceptual integration and continuity.
I used draft chapters of the book in my IO & IR course three times, beginning in Fall
        2010. The final version of the book in 2013 barely resembles those early drafts, which means
        that many students suffered to improve the book. But they did not suffer passively. Many
        students submitted problems with the Twitter hashtag #tdofix, and submitted examples using
        #tdoexample, which benefited the book greatly but which surely confused their regular
        Twitter followers.
Many other Berkeley students did important work on the book. 
        Jen Wang 
        designed the cover;
        Divya Anand, 
        Ajeeta Dhole, 
        Christina Pham, and 
        Raymon Sutedjo-The did the illustrations;
        Lisa Jervis, 
        Shohei Narron, and 
        Anne Wootton 
        worked on the extensive bibliography. A group
        of students whose work does not appear in the printed book but whose efforts will be
        revealed in future ebooks include 
        Luis Aguilar, 
        Fred Chasen, 
        Philip Foeckler, 
        Jake Hartnell,
        Eliot Nahman, and 
        AJ Renold. 
Eliot Kimber 
        showed me that it was possible to write a book that could be published
        simultaneously in print and in ebooks. It has not turned out to be as simple as someone as
        talented as Kimber can make it seem, but I am grateful to Eliot for convincing me that I
        should try to do it. With help from 
        Bob Stayton, 
        Adam Witwer 
        (and O'Reilly Media) we will get there.
I must also thank 
        Christine Borgman 
        of UCLA for bringing a group of energetic and
        thoughtful UCLA graduate students into the project. Two of them, 
        Matt Mayernik and 
        Alberto Pepe, 
        are contributing authors. 
        Amelia Acker, 
        Jillian Wallis, and 
        Laura Wynholds taught me a
        great deal about libraries and archives, and I am certain they tried to teach me much more
        than I was able to learn.
Many people read draft chapters and were thankfully unsparing in their criticism because
        they wanted to make this book as good as it could be. Thank you 
        Scott Abel, 
        Larry Barsalou,
        Marcia Bates, 
        Christine Borgman, 
        Michael Cohen, 
        David Kirsh, 
        Jeff Elman, 
        Rob Goldstone,
        Jonathan Grudin, 
              Ben Hill, 
        Mano Marks, 
        Patrick Schmitz, 
        Elaine Svenonius,
        Jeff Zych, 
        and everyone else whom I have carelessly forgotten.
Few books have been as battle tested before they went to print as this one. Let me thank
        those who have been willing to teach from a book that did not entirely exist: 
      
   
        Jane Greenberg, 
          Irith Hartman, 
           Lauren Plews, 
                Sarah Ramdeen, 
        Christian Sandvig, 
             Emily Seitz, 
        Isabelle Sperano, 
        Konstantin Tovstiadi,
          Hong Zhang, and
        especially 
        Vivien Petras and 
        Ryan Shaw who went to battle with (and for) this book multiple times.
The Essentials
The third and final category of acknowledgments is for people who were essential, without
        whom this project would never have been finished.
Jess Hemerly and Kimra McPherson joined the project in the "first
            campaign" of Spring 2010, worked tirelessly through that summer to make chapter
        drafts course-worthy, and served as teaching assistants in Fall 2010 when the book was first
        tested with students. They helped me believe that there might be a book in there somewhere
        when it took a lot of faith to see that.
Erik Wilde taught me much through our multi-year
        collaboration and dialectic when he was on the Berkeley faculty from 2006-2011. Erik made me
        understand the elegance and great scope of the word "resource," which became
        the central concept in this book. His meticulously annotated reviews of many chapters from a
        computer science perspective helped inspire the idea of discipline-tagged endnotes.
Ryan Shaw and 
        Vivien Petras, 
        both young professors at schools a long distance from
        Berkeley, found courage in themselves and had confidence in the draft book coming out of
        Berkeley in 2011—first to teach with it, and then to help write it, becoming the primary
        reviewers of my chapters and the first authors of Chapters 8 and 9. 
Murray Maloney joined the project in April 2012 as copy editor, but we together soon
        recognized that his nearly three decades of SGML, XML, 
        and publishing experience were too
        valuable not to exploit further for the benefit of this book. Without Murray's work as the
        markup and production editor, indexer and glossary-maker, there would be too much work left
        to do and no one capable of doing it as well as Murray has. Somehow along the way he also
        found time to make important intellectual contributions as a co-author in Chapters 5 and
        8.
Finally, I want to thank 
        Pam Samuelson. 
        She has been far too patient with me as I talked
        with her, to her, and at her for three years while this book was being written, who turned
        many quarter-baked ideas into half-baked ones, and who turned many half-baked ones into
        cornerstones of this book. Most importantly, she has helped me focus on this book and get it
        finished when it would have been easy to give up on it. I promise not to take on another
        book project anytime soon because Pam has suffered enough for this one.
Robert J. Glushko, 31 December 2012











Bibliography
Note
In this ebook, the bibliography presents an
         alphabetical listing of entries which detail the authors, publication dates, titles,
         publishers, issues, volumes, page numbers, and digital object identifiers associated with
         some of the works mentioned or referenced in this book.
      (For a complete bibliography and citations, refer to the Professional Edition.)
Each entry begins with an identifier based upon principal author and date of
         publication; in cases where a principal author is associated with multiple works in a given
         year, a suffix is appended to differentiate. 
         
         -- MM

[Abel2014] 
      Scott Abel and Rahel Anne Baillie. 
2014. 
The Language of Content Strategy. 

XML Press. 


[Aristotle350BC] 
      Aristotle. 
350 BC. 
On the heavens. 
(De Caelo et Mundo). 
Ancient Greece. 
https://archive.org/details/decaeloleofric00arisuoft. 

[Barsalou1983] 
      Lawrence W. Barsalou. 
1983. 
"Ad hoc categories". 
Memory & Cognition. 
Vol. 11. 
no. 3. 
pp. 211-227. 

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6621337. 

[Berners-Lee1998] 
      Tim Berners-Lee. 
1998. 
Cool URIs don't change. 
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). 

http://www.w3.org/Provider/Style/URI.html. 

[Berners-Lee2001] 
      Tim Berners-Lee, James Hendler, and Ora Lassila. 
2001. 
"The Semantic Web". 
Scientific American. 
May. 

[Bizer2009b] 
      Christian Bizer, Tom Heath, and Tim Berners-Lee. 
2009. 
"Linked Data—The Story So Far". 
International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems. 
Vol. 5. 
no. 3. 
pp. 1-22. 
 doi: 0.4018/jswis.2009081901. 

[Boroditsky2003] 
      Lera Boroditsky. 
2003. 
"Linguistic Relativity". 
In Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. 
Hoboken, NJ. 

Wiley. 


[Bowker2000] 
      Geoffrey C. Bowker and Susan Leigh Star. 
2000. 
Sorting Things Out: Classification and Its Consequences. 
Cambridge, MA. 

The MIT Press. 


[Brown2010] 
       Brown. 
2010. 
Communicating design: developing web site documentation for design and planning. 

New Riders. 


[Buckland1991] 
      Michael K. Buckland. 
1991. 
"Information as thing". 
Journal of the American Society for Information Science. 
Vol. 42. 
no. 5. 
pp. 351-360. 

http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/%28SICI%291097-4571%28199106%2942:5%3C351::AID-ASI5%3E3.0.CO;2-3/abstract. 
 doi:
         10.1002/(SICI)1097-4571(199106)42:5<351::AID-ASI5>3.0.CO;2-3. 

[Buckland1997] 
      Michael K. Buckland. 
1997. 
"What Is a 'Document'?". 
Journal of the American Society for Information Science. 
Vol. 48. 
no. 9. 
pp. 804-809. 

[Burke1993] 
Colin Burke. 
1993. 
Information and Secrecy: Vannevar Bush, Ultra, and the other Memex. 
Metuchen, NJ. 

Scarecrow Press. 


[Bush1945] 
      Vannevar Bush. 
1945. 
"As We May Think". 
The Atlantic. 
July. 

[Cerf1969] 
      Vint Cerf. 
1969. 
ASCII Format for Network Interchange. 

http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc20. 

[Chomsky1965] 
      Noam Chomsky. 
1965. 
Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. 
Cambridge, MA. 

The MIT Press. 


http://www.worldcat.org/title/aspects-of-the-theory-of-syntax/oclc/309976. 

[Clark1868] 
      Stephen Watkins Clark. 
1868. 
A Practical Grammar: In Which Words, Phrases, and Sentences Are Classified
         According to Their Offices and Their Various Relations to One Another. 

A.S. Barnes & Co. 


http://archive.org/details/practicalgrammar00clar. 

[Clark2010] 
      Stephen Watkins Clark. 
2010. 
A Practical Grammar: In Which Words, Phrases, and Sentences Are Classified
         According to Their Offices and Their Various Relations to One Another. 
Charleston, SC. 

Nabu Press. Originally published in 1847 by A.S. Barnes &
            Co. 


http://archive.org/details/practicalgrammar00clar. 

[Coase1937] 
      Ronald H. Coase. 
1937. 
"The Nature of the Firm". 
Economica, New Series. 
Vol. 4. 
no. 16. 
pp. 386-405. 

[Conklin1987] 
      Jeff Conklin. 
1987. 
"Hypertext : An Introduction and Survey". 
IEEE Computer. 
Vol. 20. 
no. 9. 
pp. 17-41. 

[Coyle2006] 
      Karen Coyle. 
2006. 
"Identifiers: Unique, Persistent, Global". 
The Journal of Academic Librarianship. 
Vol. 34. 
no. 4. 
pp. 428-431. 

[Crawford2012] 
Stephanie Crawford and Bernadette Johnson. 
06 March 2012. 
"How the Nest Learning Thermostat Works". 

HowStuffWorks.com. 


[Cutter1876] 
      Charles Cutter. 
1876. 
Rules for a printed dictionary catalogue. 
Issued as part 2 of Special report on public libraries, by the United States
         Education Bureau. 
Washington, DC. 

Government Printing Office. 


http://www.openlibrary.org/books/OL24156277M. 

[DeRose1989] 
      Steven J. DeRose. 
1989. 
"Expanding the Notion of Links". 
Proceedings of the second annual ACM conference on Hypertext (HYPERTEXT
         '89). 
(November). 
pp. 249-257. 

[DeRose2010] 
      Steven J. DeRose, Eve Maler, David Orchard, and Norman Walsh. 
2010. 
XML Linking Language (XLink). 
Recommendation of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). 

http://www.w3.org/TR/xlink11/. 

[Doctorow2001] 
      Cory Doctorow. 
2001. 
Metacrap. 

http://www.well.com/~doctorow/metacrap.htm. 

[Dougherty1985] 
      Janet W. D. Dougherty and Charles M. Keller. 
1985. 
"Taskonomy: A practical approach to knowledge structures". 
In Directions in cognitive anthropology. 
Janet W. D. Dougherty. 
 pp. 161-174. 
Urbana. 

University of Illinois Press. 


[Dumais2003] 
      Susan Dumais. 
2003. 
"Data-driven approaches to information access". 
Cognitive Science. 
Vol. 27. 
no. 3. 
pp. 491-524. 

http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1207/s15516709cog2703_7/abstract. 
 doi: 10.1016/S0364-0213(03)00013-2. 

[Engelbart1963] 
      Douglas Engelbart. 
1963. 
"A Conceptual Framework for the Augmentation of Man's Intellect". 
In Vistas in Information Handling. 
Paul Howerton, (Ed.). 
1-29. 
N.p. 

Spartan Books. 


[Fabricant2002] 
Florence Fabricant. 
2002. 
"Chilean Sea Bass: More Than an Identity Problem". 
The New York Times. 
2002-05-29. 

[Frege1892] 
      Gottlob Frege. 
1892. 
"Uber Sinn und Bedeutung". 
In Zeitschrift fur Philosophie und philosophische Kritik 100. 
 pp. 25-50. 

Translated as "On sense and reference." In Translations from the
            Philosophical Writings of Gottlob Frege, edited by P.T. Geach and M. Black, 1952, pp.
            56-78. Oxford: Basil Blackwell. 


[Furnas1987] 
      G W Furnas, T K Landauer, L M Gomez, and S T Dumais. 
1987. 
"The Vocabulary Problem in Human-System Communication: an Analysis and a
         Solution". 
Communications of the ACM. 
Vol. 30. 
no. 11. 
pp. 964-971. 

[Gibson1977] 
      James J. Gibson. 
1977. 
"The Theory of Affordances". 
In Perceiving, Acting, and Knowing: Toward an Ecological Psychology. 
Robert Shaw and John Bransford, (Eds.). 
Mahwah, NJ. 

Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. 


[Glushko1988] 
      Robert J. Glushko, Mark D. Weaver, Thomas A. Coonan, and Janet E. Lincoln. 
1988. 
"Hypertext engineering: practical methods for creating a compact disk
         encyclopedia". 
Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Document Processing
            Systems—DOCPROCS '88. 
pp. 11-19. 

[Glushko2005] 
      Robert J. Glushko and Tim McGrath. 
2005. 
Document Engineering: Analyzing and Designing Documents for Business Informatics
         and Web Services. 
Cambridge, MA. 

The MIT Press. 


http://mitpress.mit.edu/catalog/item/default.asp?ttype=2&tid=10476. 

[Glushko2008] 
      Robert J. Glushko, Paul P. Maglio, Teenie Matlock, and Lawrence W. Barsalou. 
2008. 
"Categorization in the wild". 
Trends in cognitive sciences. 
Vol. 12. 
no. 4. 
pp. 129-35. 

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18343710. 
 doi: 10.1016/j.tics.2008.01.007. 

[Glushko2013] 
      Robert J. Glushko and Karen J. Nomorosa. 
2013. 
"Substituting Information for Interaction: A Framework for Personalization in
         Service Encounters and Service Systems". 
Journal of Service Research. 
Vol. 16. 
no. 1. 
pp. 21-38. 
 doi: 10.1177/1094670512463967. 

[Glushko2013b] 
      Robert J. Glushko. 
2013. 
The Discipline of Organizing. 

The MIT Press. 


[Halvorson2012] 
      Kristina Halvorson and Melissa Rach. 
2012. 
Content strategy for the web. 

New Riders. 


[Hanington2012] 
      B. Hanington and B. Martin. 
2012. 
Universal Methods of Design: 100 Ways to Research Complex
         Problems, Develop Innovative Ideas, and Design Effective Solutions. 
BeverlyMA. 
Rockport Publishers. 

[Hearst2009] 
      Marti A. Hearst. 
Search User Interfaces. 
Cambridge University Press. 

[Heidorn2008] 
P. Bryan Heidorn. 
2008. 
Shedding Light on the Dark Data in the Long Tail of Science. 
Library Trends, Volume 57, Number 2, Fall 2008, pp. 280-299 (Article). 

The Johns Hopkins University Press. 

doi: 10.1353/lib.0.0036. 

[Hemerly2011] 
      Jess Hemerly. 
2011. 
"Making Metadata: The Case of MusicBrainz". 
SSRN Electronic Journal. 

http://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=1982823. 

[Hillmann2005] 
      Diane Hillmann. 
2005. 
Using Dublin Core—The Elements. 
Dublin Core Metadata Initiative. 

http://dublincore.org/documents/usageguide/elements.shtml. 

[Johnson1998] 
Spencer Johnson. 
2010. 
Who Moved My Cheese?. 
An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life. 
1998. 
New York. 

Putnam Adult. 


[Kalbach2007] 
      James Kalbach. 
2007. 
Designing Web Navigation. 

O'Reilly Media, Inc. 


[Kent2012] 
      William Kent and Steve Hoberman. 
2012. 
Data and Reality: A Timeless Perspective on Perceiving and Managing Information in
         Our Imprecise World. 
Westfield, NJ. 

Technics Publications, LLC. 


[Kurosawa1957] 
      Akira Kurosawa. 
1957. 
Kumonosu-jo (蜘蛛巣城). 
(Throne of Blood). 
Tokyo. 

Toho Studios. 


[Linnaeus1735] 
      C. von Linnaeus. 
1735. 
Systema Naturae 1. 
Editio Decima, Reformata. 
(Holmiae, fasc reprint 1939) (1758). 
Bri Mus Nat Hist, London. 

[Liptak2014] 
      Adam Liptak. 
Justices to weigh finance law as it was applied to little fish. 
April 28 2014. 

NY Times. 


http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/29/us/politics/justices-to-weigh-fishermans-conviction-under-federal-finance-law.html. 

[Lubetzky2001] 
      Seymour Lubetzky. 
1953. 
Seymour Lubetzky: Writings on the Classical Art of Cataloging. 
Santa Barbara, CA. 

Libraries Unlimited. 


[Marcotte2011] 
      Ethan Marcotte. 
2011. 
Responsive web design. 

Editions Eyrolles. 


[McCulloch2003] 
Mark Richard McCulloch. 
Understanding W.G. Sebald. 
2003. 

University of South Carolina Press. 

Columbia. 

[Melville1851] 
      Herman Melville. 
Moby Dick. 
or The Whale. 
1851. 
London. 

Richard Bentley. 


[Miller1956] 
      George Miller. 
1956. 
"The Magical Number Seven, Plus or Minus Two: Some Limits on our Capacity for
         Processing Information". 
Psychological Review. 
Vol. 63. 
no. 2. 
pp. 81-97. 

[Miller1976] 
      George A. Miller and Philip Johnson-Laird. 
1976. 
Language and Perception. 
Cambridge, MA. 

Belknap Press. 


[Miller1998] 
      George A. Miller. 
1998. 
"Nouns in WordNet". 
In WordNet: An Electronic Lexical Database. 
Christine Feldbaum, (Ed.). 
Cambridge, MA. 

The MIT Press. 


[Morgan1871] 
      Lewis Henry Morgan. 
1871. 
Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family. 
Lincoln. 

University of Nebraska Press. 


[Morgan1997] 
      Lewis Henry Morgan. 
1997. 
Systems of consanguinity and affinity of the human family. 
Reprint of Morgan(1871). 

Smithsonian Institution. 


[Nelson1974] 
      Theodor Holm Nelson. 
1974. 
Computer Lib. 
Redmond, WA. 

Microsoft Press. 


[Nelson1981] 
      Theodor H. Nelson. 
1981. 
Literary Machines: The Report On, and Of, Project Xanadu Concerning Word
         Processing, Electronic Publishing, Hypertext, Thinkertoys, Tomorrow's Intellectual
         Revolution, and Certain Other Topics Including Knowledge, Education and Freedom. 
Sausalito, CA. 

T. Nelson. 

3rd edition. 

[Norman1988] 
      Donald A. Norman. 
1988. 
The psychology of everyday things. 
New York. 

Basic Books. 


[Norman1999] 
      Donald A. Norman. 
1999. 
"Affordance, conventions, and design". 
interactions. 
Vol. 6. 
no. 3. 
pp. 38-43. 

[Norman2006] 
      Donald A. Norman. 
2006. 
"Logic Versus Usage: The Case for Activity-Centered Design". 
interactions. 
Vol. 13. 
no. 6. 
pp. 45-ff. 

[Norton2014] 
Steven Norton. 
2014-07-10. 
"Germany's 12th Man at the World Cup: Big Data". 

The Wall Street Journal. 

http://blogs.wsj.com/dailyfix/2014/07/10/germanys-12th-man-at-the-world-cup-big-data/. 

[Nunberg1996] 
      Geoffrey Nunberg. 
1996. 
"Farewell to the Information Age". 
In The Future of the Book. 
Geoffrey Nunberg, (Ed.). 
Berkeley, CA. 

University of California Press. 


[Nunberg2009] 
      Geoffrey Nunberg. 
2009. 
"Google's Book Search: A Disaster for Scholars". 
The Chronicle of Higher Education. 
August 31. 

http://chronicle.com/article/Googles-Book-Search-A/48245/. 

[Nunberg2011] 
      Geoffrey Nunberg. 
2011. 
"James Gleick's History of Information". 
The New York Times. 
2011-03-18. 

http://www.nytimes.com/2011/03/20/books/review/book-review-the-information-by-james-gleick.html. 

[OReilly2005] 
      Tim O'Reilly. 
2005. 
What Is Web 2.0: Design Patterns and Business Models for the Next Generation of
         Software. 
O'Reilly Media. 

http://oreilly.com/web2/archive/what-is-web-20.html. 

[Panizzi1841] 
      Anthony Panizzi. 
1841. 
Rules for the Compilation of the Catalogue. 

[Panofsky1972] 
      Erwin Panofsky and Gerda S. Panofsky. 
1972. 
Studies in Iconology: Humanistic Themes in the Art of the Renaissance. 
Boulder, CO. 

Westview Press. 


[Plato370BC] 
      Plato. 
370 BC. 
Phaedrus. 
Ancient Greece. 

[Polaine2013] 
      A. Polaine, L Løvlie, and B. Reason. 
2013. 
Service design: from insight to implementation. 
BrooklynNew York. 
Rosenfeld Media. 

[Ranganathan1967] 
      Shiyali
               Ramamrita Ranganathan. 
1967. 
Prologmena to Library Classification. 
Delhi. 

Asia Publishing House. 


[Renear2003] 
      Allen Renear and David Dubin. 
2003. 
"Towards Identity Conditions for Digital Documents". 
International Conference on Dublin Core and Metadata Applications. 
pp. 181-189. 

http://dcpapers.dublincore.org/index.php/pubs/article/view/746. 

[Resmini2011a] 
      Andrea Resmini and Luca Rosati. 
2011. 
A Brief History of Information Architecture. 
Journal of Information Architecture. 
3 (2). 33-46. 

[Resmini2011b] 
      
      Andrea Resmini and Luca Rosati. 
2011. 
Pervasive Information Architecture: Designing Cross-Channel User Experiences. 
Elsevier. 

[Resmini2012] 
      Andrea Resmini and Luca Rosati. 
2012. 
"A brief history of information architecture". 

Journal of Information Architecture 3.2. 


[Reynolds2014] 
Gretchen Reynolds. 
2014-07-16. 
"Train Like a German Soccer Star". 

The New York Times. 



http://nyti.ms/1rfy8rd. 

[Rosch1975] 
      Eleanor Rosch. 
1975. 
"Cognitive representations of semantic categories". 
Journal of Experimental Psychology: General. 
Vol. 104. 
no. 3. 
pp. 192-233. 

http://psycnet.apa.org/journals/xge/104/3/192/. 
 doi: 10.1037/0096-3445.104.3.192. 

[Rowling1997-2007] 
      J.K. Rowling. 
1997-2007. 
Harry Potter Series. 
United Kingdom. 

Bloomsbury Publishing. 


[Rowling2013] 
      J.K. Rowling, writing as Robert Galbraith. 
2013. 
The Cuckoo's Calling. 
United Kingdom. 

Sphere Books. 


[Rubinsky1997] 
      Yuri Rubinsky and Murray Maloney. 
1997. 
SGML on the Web: Small Steps Beyond HTML. 
Upper Saddle River, NJ. 

Prentice Hall. 


[Salton1975] 
      Gerard Salton, Anita Wong, and Chung-Shu Yang. 
1975. 
"A Vector Space Model for Automatic Indexing". 
Communications of the ACM. 
Vol. 18. 
no. 11. 
pp. 613-320. 

[Samuelson2009] 
      Pamela Samuelson. 
2009. 
Google Books Is Not a Library. 
Huffington Post. 

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/pamela-samuelson/google-books-is-not-a-lib_b_317518.html. 

[Samuelson2010] 
      Pamela Samuelson. 
2010. 
"Google Book Search and the Future of Books in Cyberspace". 
Miinnesota Law Review. 
Vol. 94. 
no. 5. 
pp. 1308-1374. 

[Samuelson2011] 
      Pamela Samuelson. 
2011. 
"The Google Book Settlement as Copyright Reform". 
Wisconsin Law Review. 
Vol. 11. 
no. 2. 
pp. 479-562. 

http://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=1683589. 

[Sebald1995] 
      W.G. Sebald. 
1995. 
The Rings of Saturn. (English Ed.). 
(Die Ringe des Saturn. Eine englische Wallfahrt.). 

Harvill. 
London. 


[Shadbolt2006] 
      Nigel Shadbolt, Tim Berners-Lee, and Wendy Hall. 
2006. 
"The Semantic Web Revisited". 
IEEE Intelligent Systems. 
Vol. 21. 
no. 3. 
pp. 96-101. 
 doi: 10.1109/MIS.2006.62. 

[Shakespeare1623] 
      William Shakespeare. 
The Tragedie of Macbeth. 
Folio. 
1623. 
London. 

[Simon2010] 
      Nina Simon. 
2010. 
The Participatory Museum. 
Santa Cruz, CA. 

Museum 2.0. 


http://www.participatorymuseum.org/read/. 

[Spencer2009] 
      D. Spencer. 
2009. 
Card Sorting. 
Brooklyn NY. 

Rosenfeld Media. 


[Storey1993] 
      Veda C. Storey. 
1993. 
"Understanding Semantic Relationships". 
VDLB Journal. 
Vol. 2. 
pp. 455-488. 

[Svenonius2000] 
      Elaine Svenonius. 
2000. 
The Intellectual Foundation of Information Organization. 
Cambridge, MA. 

The MIT Press. 


[Taylor2009] 
      Arlene G. Taylor and Daniel N. Joudrey. 
2009. 
The Organization of Information. 
Santa Barbara, CA. 

Libraries Unlimited. 


[Tillett1991] 
      Barbara B. Tillett. 
1991. 
"A Taxonomy of Bibliographic Relationships". 
Library Resources & Technical Services. 
Vol. 35. 
no. 2. 
pp. 150-158. 

[Tillett1992] 
      Barbara B. Tillett. 
1992. 
"Bibliographic relationships: An empirical study of the LC machine-readable
         records". 
Library Resources & Technical Services. 
Vol. 36. 
no. 2. 
pp. 162-188. 

[Tillett2001] 
      Barbara B. Tillett. 
2001. 
"Bibliographic Relationships". 
In Relationships in the Organization of Knowledge. 
Carol A. Bean and Rebecca Green, (Eds.). 
19-36. 
Norwell, MA. 

Kluwer. 


[Tillett2003] 
      Barbara Tillett. 
2003. 
"What is FRBR? A Conceptual Model for the Bibliographic Universe". 
Technicalities. 
Vol. 25. 
no. 5. 

[Tillett2005] 
      Barbara B. Tillett. 
2005. 
"FRBR and Cataloging for the Future". 
Cataloging & Classification Quarterly. 
Vol. 39. 
no. 3/4. 
pp. 197-205. 

[Tufte1983] 
      Edward R. Tufte. 
1983. 
The Visual Display of Quantitative Information. 
Cheshire, CT. 

Graphics Press. 


[Walsh2010] 
      Norman Walsh. 
2010. 
DocBook 5: The Definitive Guide. 
Sebastopol, CA. 

O'Reilly. 


[Whistler1890] 
James Abbott Whistler. 
1890. 

Project Gutenberg. 

http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/24650. 

[Wilde2002] 
      Erik Wilde and David Lowe. 
2002. 
XPath, XLink, XPointer, and XML: A Practical Guide to Web Hyperlinking and
         Transclusion. 
Boston, MA. 

Addison Wesley. 


[Wilde2007] 
      Erik Wilde and Philippe Cattin. 
2007. 
"Presenting in HTML". 
DocEng '07: Proceedings of the 2007 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering. 

[Wilde2008a] 
      Erik Wilde. 
2008. 
The Plain Web. 

http://dret.net/netdret/docs/wilde-wsw2008/. 

[Wilde2008b] 
      Erik Wilde and Robert J. Glushko. 
2008. 
"Document design matters". 
Communications of the ACM. 
Vol. 51. 
no. 10. 
pp. 43-49. 

http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=1400181.1400195. 
 doi: 10.1145/1400181.1400195. 

[Wilde2011] 
      Erik Wilde and Cesare Pautasso. 
2011. 
REST: From Research to Practice. 
New York. 

Springer. 


[Williamson1975] 
      Oliver E. Williamson. 
1975. 
"Markets and hierarchies: analysis and antitrust implications: a study in the economics
         of internal organization". 
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign's Academy for Entrepreneurial Leadership
         Historical Research Reference in Entrepreneurship. 

http://ssrn.com/abstract=1496220. 

[Williamson1998] 
      Oliver E. Williamson. 
1998. 
The Economic Institutions of Capitalism. 
New York. 

Free Press. 


[Wilkinson2014] 
      Alec Wilkinson. 
2014 May 19. 
A Voice from the Past. 
How a physicist
         resurrected the earliest recordings. 
New York. 

New Yorker Magazine. 

http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2014/05/19/a-voice-from-the-past. 

[Wittgenstein2002] 
      Ludwig Wittgenstein. 
2002. 
"Philosophical Investigations, Sections 65-78". 
In Foundations of Cognitive Psychology: Core Readings. 
Daniel J. Levitin. 
 pp. 271-276. 
Cambridge, MA. 

The MIT Press. 


[Winston1987] 
      Morton E. Winston, Roger Chaffin, and Douglas Herrmann. 
1987. 
"A taxonomy of part-whole relations". 
Cognitive science. 
11. 
no. 4. 
417-444. 
















Glossary



NoteIn this ebook, the glossary presents an alphabetical listing
            of entries, each with a term and a corresponding meaning. As much as possible and
            wherever practical, the contents of the glossary definitions are transcluded from the
            chapters and hypertext links offer the gentle reader with a means to go back to the
            source so that it can be considered in the author's intended context.
In the case of abbreviations, the meaning transcludes the expanded form of the abbreviation,
        which links back to the chapters, typically to its first use.
        Where abbreviations relate to formal organizations or standards, 
        we provide a reference URI to encourage discovery.
        -- MM




AAT






Art and Architecture Thesaurus (AAT)


(http://www.getty.edu/research/tools/vocabularies/aat/)


aboutness


"Subject
                    matter" organization involves the use of a classification system that
                provides categories and descriptive terms for indicating what a resource is about.
                Because they use properties like aboutness
that are not directly perceived, methods for assigning subject
                classifications are intellectually-intensive and require rigorous training to be
                performed consistently and appropriately for the intended users. 
                (From §2.3, "Organizing Resources".)


absolute synonyms


The
                        strictest definition is that synonyms
"are words that can replace each other
                            in some class of contexts with insignificant changes of the whole text's
                            meaning."
(From §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy".)
See also synonym


abstract models


Abstract
                        models describe structures commonly found in resource
                    descriptions and other information resources, regardless of the specific domain.
                
(From abstract models.)


accessioning


Adding a resource to
                    a library collection is called acquisition, but
                    adding to a museum collection is called accessioning.
                (From §2.1, "Introduction".)
See also acquisition,
                    collection development


accuracy


See precision.


acquisition


Adding a resource to
                    a library collection is called acquisition, but
                    adding to a museum collection is called accessioning.
                (From §2.1, "Introduction".)
See also accessioning,
                    collection development


active resources


Active
                            resources create effects or value
                        on their own, sometimes when they initiate interactions with passive
                        resources. Active resources can be people,
                            other living resources, computational
                            agents, active information
                            sources, web-based services,
                            self-driving cars,
                            robots,
                        appliances, machines
                        or otherwise ordinary objects like light bulbs, umbrellas, and shoes that
                        have been made "smarter."
(From §3.2.3.2, "Active or Operant Resources".)


activities


There are four
                    activities that occur naturally in every organizing system; how explicit
                they are depend on the scope, the breadth or variety of the resources, and the
                scale, the number of resources that the organizing system encompasses. 
                (From §2.1, "Introduction".)
See also selecting, organizing,
                    designing resource-based interactions, maintaining


ad hoc category


An ad hoc
                        category or goal-derived category is a collection of resources
                    that happen to go together to satisfy a goal. The resources might not have any
                    discernible properties in common.
(From ad hoc.)


affordance


The concept of
                        affordance, introduced
                    by J. J. Gibson and then extended and popularized by Donald Norman, captures the idea that physical
                            resources and their environments have inherent actionable
                        properties that determine, in conjunction with an actor's capabilities and
                        cognition, what can be done with the resource.
(From §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability".)
See also capability


agency


Agency
 is the extent to which a resource can initiate actions on its
                        own. We can define a continuum between completely passive
                    resources that cannot initiate any actions and active resources that can
                    initiate actions based on information they sense from their environments or
                    obtain through interactions with other resources. 
                (From §3.2.3, "Resource Agency".)


agent


We use the more general
                        word, agent, for any entity capable of
                            autonomous and intentional organizing effort, because it
                        treats organizing work done by people and organizing work done by computers
                        as having common goals, despite obvious differences in
                    methods. 
                (From §1.2.3.2, "The Concept of "Agent"".)


agents


Basically, people and the various
                                    groups and organizations with which they identify, whether based
                                    on physical, mental, socio-economic, or political
                                        characteristics—e.g.,
                                        "stonemasons" or
                                    "socialists."
(From §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description".)


alias


See synonym.


alphabetical ordering


Alphabetical ordering is arranging
                            resources according to their names
                (From §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle"".)
See also chronological ordering


analysis


A common interaction with an organizing system.


anchor text


In web
                            contexts, the words in which a structural link is embedded are called
                            the anchor
                                text.
(From §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links".)
See also hypertext


antonymy


Antonymy
is the lexical relationship between two words that have opposite
                        meanings. Antonymy is a very
                        salient lexical relationship, and for adjectives it is even more powerful
                        than synonymy. 
                (From §5.4.1.5, "Antonymy".)



APA






American Psychiatric
                                    Association (APA)


(http://www.psych.org)



API





application program interfaces (APIs)



appraisal


What is the value
                                    of this resource? What is its cost? At what rate does it
                                    depreciate? Does it have a shelf life? Does it have any
                                    associated ratings, rankings, or quality measures? Moreover,
                                    what is the quality of those ratings, rankings and
                                    measures? 
                (From §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection".)


architectural perspective


The architectural perspective
                                emphasizes the number and abstraction level of the components of a
                                relationship, which together characterize its
                                complexity. 
                (From §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview".)


arity


The degree
or arity
of a relationship is the number of entity types or
                        categories of resources in the relationship. This is usually,
                    though not always, the same as the number of arguments in the relationship
                    expression. 
                (From §5.6.1, "Degree".)
See also degree



ARPA



Advanced Research Projects Agency
(http://www.darpa.mil/)


artifact 


See resource.



ASCII









American National Standard for Information Systems—Coded Character Sets—7-Bit
                American National Standard Code for Information Interchange (7-Bit ASCII), ANSI
                X3.4-1986, American National Standards Institute, Inc., March 26, 1986


asset


See resource.


associated resource


See description resources.


associative array


See dictionary.


asymmetric relationships





Asymmetric relationships express a one-way
                    relationship from the subject to the object. For example,
                        "is-parent-of."

See also hypertext, directionality, and 
                one-way link.
                From asymmetric
                    relationship.)


attribute





Attribute is a synonym for "property."


To attribute is to assert or assign a
                value to a property. See attribution relationship
An attribute is a syntactic component
                of XML elements and a conceptual component of the
                    XML Infoset, consisting of a potentially qualified name and a
                value, whose type may influence its interpretation. The value of an attribute in an
                    XML document is a Unicode string. The value of that attribute
                in the XML Infoset could be a simple string of text, a precisely-typed numeric or
                temporal value, a list of references to document nodes, a hypertext link, or a
                reference to a formal notation. (See also element item)


attribution relationship


Asserting or assigning values to
                                        properties; the predicate depends on the property:
                                        "is-the-author-of,"
"is-married-to,"
"is-employed-by," etc. 
                (From §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships".)


audio fingerprinting


Audio fingerprinting 
                    renders a digital description of a piece of music, which a computer can then interpret and
                compare to other digital descriptions in a library.
                (From §4.4.3, "Describing Music".)


authentication


Is the resource what it claims to be? (§3.5.3, "Authenticity"). Resource descriptions that can
                                    support authentication include technological ones like time
                                    stamps, watermarking, encryption, checksums, and digital
                                    signatures.  
                (From §4.3.2, "Determining the Purposes".)


authenticity


In ordinary
                    use we say that something is authentic if it can
                    be shown to be, or has come to be accepted as what it claims to be. The
                    importance and nuance of questions about authenticity can be seen in the many
                    words we have to describe the relationship between "the real thing"
                    (the "original") and something else: copy, reproduction, replica,
                    fake, phony, forgery, counterfeit, pretender, imposter, ringer, and so
                    on. 
                (From §3.5.3, "Authenticity".)
See also provenance


authority control 


For
                        bibliographic resources important aspects of vocabulary control include
                        determining the authoritative forms for author names, uniform titles of
                        works, and the set of terms by which a particular subject will be known. In
                        library science, the process of creating and maintaining these
                            standard names and terms is known as authority
                            control.
                (From §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies".)



BI







Business Intelligence (BI)




bi-directional


See symmetric relationships.


bi-directional links


When a bi-directional
                                        link is created between an anchor and a
                                    destination, it is as though a one-way link that can be followed in the
                                    opposite direction is automatically created. Two one-way links serve the
                                    same purpose, but the return link is not automatically established when
                                    the first one is created. 
                (From §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links".)
See also hypertext, directionality, one-way link


bibliographic description


Bibliographic descriptions
characterize information resources and the entities
                            that populate the bibliographic universe, which include works, editions,
                            authors, and subjects. Despite the "biblio-"
                        root, bibliographic descriptions are applied to all of the resource types
                        contained in libraries, not just books. Note also that this definition
                        includes not just the information resources being described as distinct
                        instances, but also as sets of related instances and the nature of those
                        relationships. 
                (From §4.2.2.1, "Bibliographic Descriptions".)


bibliography


A bibliography is a description
                resource in the domain of library science. (Ed.)


bibliometrics



                Information scientists began studying the structure of scientific citation,
                        now called bibliometrics,
                        nearly a century ago to identify influential scientists and
                        publications. 
                (From §5.5.3.3, "Bibliometrics, Shepardizing, and Social Network Analysis".)


big data


For digital resources,
                    inexpensive storage and high bandwidth have largely eliminated capacity as a
                    constraint for organizing systems, with an exception for big data,
                    which is defined as a collection of data that is too big to be managed
                        by typical database software and hardware
                    architectures.
(From §10.5.2, "Architectural Thinking".)


binary antonyms


Contrasting or binary
                            antonyms are used in mutually exclusive contexts
                        where one or the other word can be used, but never both. For example,
                            "alive" and "dead" can never be used at the
                        same time to describe the state of some entity, because the meaning of one
                        excludes or contradicts the meaning of the other. 
                (From §5.4.1.5, "Antonymy".)


binary link


A binary link connects one anchor to
                one destination. (From binary links.)
See also hypertext


blob


A blob is any resource whose internal
                structure is functionally opaque for the purpose at hand.
            (From blob.)


Boolean facet


Take on one of two values, yes (true) or no (false) along some
                                    dimension or property. 
                (From Boolean
                            facets.)
See also §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets"


born digital


Resources in organizing systems that are created in digital format are
                    born digital. These include resources created
                by word processors and digital cameras, or by audio and video recorders. Other
                resources are produced in digital form by "smart things" and by the
                systems that create digital resources when they interact with barcodes, QR
                    ("quick response") codes, RFID tags, or other mechanisms for
                tracking identity and location. (From born
                    digital.)



CAFE







Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE)


(http://www.nhtsa.gov/staticfiles/rulemaking/pdf/cafe/CAFE-GHG_MY_2012-2016_Final_Rule_FR.pdf)


capability


Capability is a function of the
                affordances offered by an organizing
                    system and the possible interactions they imply. 
                (From capability.)
See also affordance


capability and compatibility


Will the resource meet functional or
                                    interoperability requirements? Technology-intensive resources
                                    often have numerous specialized types of descriptions that
                                    specify their functions, performance, reliability, and other
                                        "-ilities" that determine if they fit in with
                                    other resources in an organizing system. 
                (From §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection".)


cardinality


The cardinality
of a relationship is the number of instances that can be
                        associated with each entity type in a relationship.
(From §5.6.2, "Cardinality".)


cataloging


Documenting the contents
                        of library and museum collections to organize them is called
                        cataloging
(From §2.1, "Introduction".)
See also collection development


categories


Categories are equivalence
                    classes, sets or groups of things or abstract entities that we treat
                the same. 
                (From §6.2, "The What and Why of Categories".)
See also equivalence class



CBS



CBS Corporation and CBS Broadcasting Inc.
(http://www.cbs.com/)



CC




Common Cartridge and Learning Tools Interoperability

(http://www.imsglobal.org/commoncartridge.html)


centrality




The centrality of a resource instance as a member of a
                    category is a measure of how close it is to a mathematical average on some
                    measures or property values that apply to all the members. (From §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance".)




CERN



European Organization for Nuclear Research (Centre Européen de Research Nuclear) 
(http://public.web.cern.ch/public/)


character


Unicode makes the important
                    distinction between characters and
                        glyphs. A character
is the smallest meaningful unit of a written language. In
                    alphabet-based languages like English, characters are letters; in languages like Chinese, characters
                    are ideographs. 
                (From §8.3.1, "Notations".)


character encoding


A notation
                    that has had numbers assigned to its characters is called a character
                    encoding. 
                (From §8.3.1, "Notations".)
The most ambitious character coding in existence is Unicode, which as of
                version 6.0 assigns numbers to 109,449 characters. Unicode makes the important
                distinction between characters and glyphs.


chronological ordering


Chronological ordering is arranging
                            resources according to the date of their creation or other important
                            event in the lifetime of the resource
                (From §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle"".).
See also alphabetical ordering


circulation


We might
                            treat circulation,
borrowing and returning the same item, as one of
                            the interactions with resources that defines a library. 
                (From §1.3.1.2, "A Multifaceted or Multidimensional View".)


classes


In object-oriented
                    programming languages, classes are schemas that serve as templates for the
                    creation of objects. A class in a
                    programming language is analogous to a database schema that specifies the
                    structure of its member instances, in that the class definition specifies how
                    instances of the class are constructed in terms of data types and possible
                    values. Programming classes may also specify whether data in a member object can
                    be accessed, and if so, how. 
                (From §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories".)


classical categories



                Categories
                        defined by necessary and sufficient properties are also called monothetic.
                        They are also sometimes called classical
                            categories because they conform to Aristotle's theory of how categories are used in logical deduction using
                        syllogisms. 
                (From §6.3.3.3, "Necessary and Sufficient Properties".)


classification


The systematic
                        assignment of resources to a system of intentional categories, often
                        institutional ones.
(From §7.1.1, "Classification vs. Categorization".)
Classification is applied
                categorization - the assignment of resources to a system of categories, called
                classes, using a predetermined set of principles.
See also inclusion


classification scheme


See classifications


classifications


A system of
                    categories and its attendant rules or access methods is typically
                called a classification
                    scheme or just the classifications. A system of categories captures the
                distinctions and relationships among its resources that are most important in a
                domain and for a particular context of use, creating a reference model or conceptual
                roadmap for its users. 
                (From §7.1, "Introduction".)


classifying


When we make an assertion
                        that a particular instance is a member of class, we are classifying the
                        instance. 
                (From §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion".)


class inclusion


is the fundamental and
                        familiar "is-a,"
"is-a-type-of," or
                                "subset"
                        relationship between two entity types or classes where one is contained in
                        and thus more specific than the other more generic one. 
                (From §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion".)
See also inclusion


clustering


Clustering techniques share the goal of creating
                        meaningful categories from a collection of items whose properties are hard to
                        directly perceive and evaluate; this is especially true with large collections
                        of heterogeneous documents, where goals might be to find categories of documents
                        with the same topics, genre, sentiment, or other characteristic that cannot
                        easily be reduced to specific property tests.
                (From §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory".)
The end result of clustering is a
                statistically optimal set of categories in which the similarity of all the items
                within a category is larger than the similarity of items that belong to different
                categories.


cognates


Many words in different languages have common roots, and as a
                    result are often spelled the same or nearly the same. This is especially true
                    for technology words; for example, "computer" has been borrowed by
                    many languages. 
                    The existence of these 
                    cognates 
                    and borrowed words makes us vulnerable to false cognates. 
                    When a word in one language has a different
                    meaning and refers to different resources in another, the results can be
                    embarrassing or disastrous. "Gift" is poison in German; "pain" is bread in French. 
                (From §3.4.2.2, "Homonymy, Polysemy, and False Cognates".)


collection


A collection is a group of resources that
                        have been selected for some purpose.
(From §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection"".)


collection development


Libraries and
                museums usually make their selection principles explicit in collection development policies. Adding a resource to
                    a library collection is called acquisition, but
                    adding to a museum collection is called accessioning.

Documenting the contents
                        of library and museum collections to organize them is called
                        cataloging.
                    Circulation is a central
                interaction in libraries, but because museum resources do not circulate the primary
                interactions for museum users are viewing or visiting
                the collection. Maintenance
                activities are usually described as preservation or curation.
                (From §2.1, "Introduction".)


collocation


The Organizing
                        System for a small collection can sometimes use only the minimal or default
                        organizing principle of collocation—putting
                            all the resources in the same container, on the same
                                shelf, or in the same email in-box. 
                (From §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle"".)


compliance





Compliance
                    is a maintenance activity.



component-object inclusion


Component-Object
is the relationship type when the part is a separate
                                    component that is arranged or assembled with other components to
                                    create a larger resource. 
                (From §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships".)
See also inclusion


compounding


Compounding is putting two "free" morphemes
                    together.
(From Compounding.)


constraint


A constraint is a limit or bound on a
                data type or structure, most usefully expressed in a schema or regular expression.
                Constraints on data types and structures can be expressed in a variety of natural,
                programming and schema languages with varying degrees of efficacy. (Ed.)


content rules


Content rules
                        are similar to controlled vocabularies because they also limit the possible
                        values that can be used in descriptions. Instead of specifying a fixed set
                        of values, content rules typically restrict descriptions by requiring them
                        to be of a particular data type (integer, Boolean, Date, and so
                        on). 
                (From §4.3.4.3, "Controlled Vocabularies and Content Rules".)


contextual properties




Contextual
                                properties
 are those related to the situation or context in which a
                        resource is described. Dey defines context as "any
                            information that characterizes a situation related to the interactions
                            between users, applications, and the surrounding environment."
(From §4.3.3.4, "Extrinsic Dynamic Properties".)


controlled vocabulary


One way to encourage good names for a given resource domain or task is to
                        establish a controlled
                            vocabulary. A controlled
                                vocabulary can be thought of as a fixed or
                        closed dictionary that includes all the terms that can be used in a
                        particular domain. A controlled vocabulary shrinks the number of words used,
                        reducing synonymy and homonymy and eliminating undesirable associations,
                        leaving behind a set of words with precisely defined meanings and rules
                        governing their use. 
                (From §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies".)


coverage


The values of a facet should be able
                                        of classifying all instances within the intended
                                        scope. 
                (From §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics".)



CRM







Customer Relationship Management
                                (CRM)




crosswalk


Similar to mapping, a straightforward approach to transformation is the use of crosswalks, which
                        are equivalence tables that relate resource description elements, semantics,
                        and writing systems from one organizing system to those of
                        another.
                (From §9.3.2.2, "Modes of Transformation".)


cultural categories


Cultural categories
                are the archetypical form of categories upon which individual and
                    institutional categories are usually based. Cultural categories
                tend to describe our everyday experiences of the world and our accumulated
                cultural knowledge.  
                (From §6.2.1, "Cultural Categories".)


cultural properties


Cultural
                        properties derive from conventional language or culture, often by
                    analogy, because they can be highly evocative and memorable.
(From §4.3.3.4, "Extrinsic Dynamic Properties"


curation


Curation is a maintenance
                activity.
Curation usually refers to the methods or
                        systems that add value to and preserve resources, while the
                    concept of governance more often
                    emphasizes the institutions or organizations that carry out those
                        activities. The former is most often used for libraries, museums,
                    or archives and the latter for enterprise or inter-enterprise contexts. 
                (From §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?".)


data activities






Data
                    capture, extraction and generation are resource selection
                activities.

Data cleaning and cleansing are maintenance activities.
Data insertion and integration add resources to a collection.


data rot





Data rot is a
                    colloquial term intended to convey the fact that the physical medium of a
                    digital resource deteriorates over time.



data schema


Data
                            schemas that specify data entities, elements,
                    identifiers, attributes, and relationships in databases and XML
                    document types on the transactional end of the Document Type Spectrum (§3.2.1) are implementations of the
                    categories needed for the design, development and maintenance of information
                    organization systems. Like the classical model of categorization, data schemas
                    tend to rigidly define resources. 
                (From §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories".)



DC








(http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/)


decision tree


The most direct way
                    to implement classical categories is as a decision tree. A simple decision tree is an algorithm
                    for determining a decision by making a sequence of logical or property
                    tests. 
                (From §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories".)


decoding


A
                                    digital resource is first a sequence of bits. Decoding
                                    transforms those bits into characters according to the encoding
                                    scheme used, extracting the text from its stored form.


degree


The degree
or arity
of a relationship is the number of entity types or
                        categories of resources in the relationship. This is usually,
                    though not always, the same as the number of arguments in the relationship
                    expression. 
                (From §5.6.1, "Degree".)


derivational morphology


Derivational
                                morphology
deals with how words are created by combining morphemes. 
                (From §5.4.3.1, "Derivational Morphology".)


description resources



                Any primary resource can
                    have one or more description
                        resources associated with it to facilitate finding, interacting
                    with, or interpreting the primary one.
                            Description resources are essential in
                    organizing systems where the primary resources are not under its control and can
                    only be accessed or interacted with through the description. Description resources are
                    often called metadata. 
                (From §3.2.4, "Resource Focus".)
Description resources, such as physical or online
                catalog records, describe the primary
                    resources that comprise the collection.


descriptor


In the library science context
                    of bibliographic
                        description, a 
descriptor
 is one of the terms in a carefully designed language that
                        can be assigned to a resource to designate its properties, characteristics,
                        or meaning, or its relationships with other resources.
(From §4.2.2, ""Description" as an Inclusive Term".)


designed resource access policies


Designed resource access
                            policies are established by the
                        designer or operator of an organizing system to satisfy internally generated
                        requirements.
(From §2.1, "Introduction".)


designing resource-based interactions


Designing and implementing the actions, functions or
                            services that make use of the resources. 
                (From §2.1, "Introduction".)



DFR






divergence from randomness models
                            (DFR)



dictionary


A dictionary is a
                        set of property-value pairs or entries. It is a set of
                        entries, not a list of entries, because the pairs are not ordered and
                        because each entry must have a unique key.
Note that this specialized
                        meaning of dictionary is
                        different from the more common meaning of "dictionary" as an
                        alphabetized list of terms accompanied by sentences that define
                        them. 
                (From §8.2.1.4, "Dictionaries".)


digitization


In
                    contrast to original digital resources, some are created by digitization, the process for transforming an artifact whose original format is
                            physical so that it can be stored and manipulated by a
                        computer. 
                (From §3.2.2, "Resource Format".)


dimensionality reduction


Dimensionality reduction implies transforming 
                        a high-dimensional space into a lower-dimensional one. 
                    Reducing the number of components in a multidimensional description can be accomplished by many
                    different statistical techniques that go by names like 
                    "feature extraction,"
"principle components analysis,"
"orthogonal decomposition,"
"latent semantic analysis,"
"multidimensional scaling," and "factor analysis."
(From §4.3.4.4, "Vocabulary Control as Dimensionality Reduction".)


directionality


The directionality
of a relationship defines the order in which the arguments of the
                    relationship are connected. A one-way or uni-directional relationship can be followed in only one
                    direction, whereas a bi-directional one can
                    be followed in both directions. 
                (From §5.6.3, "Directionality".)
See also hypertext, directionality, one-way link, bi-directional


discipline


A discipline is an integrated field of
                        study in which there is some level of agreement about the issues and
                        problems that deserve study, how they are interrelated, how they should be
                        studied, and how findings or theories about the issues and problems should
                        be evaluated.
(From §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing".)


discovery


What resources are available that might be added to a
                                        collection? New resources are often listed in
                                    directories, registries, or catalogs. Some types of resources
                                    are selected and acquired automatically through subscriptions
                                    or, contracts. 
                (From §4.3.2, "Determining the Purposes".)



DNA



Deoxyribonucleic Acid


document


See resource.


document frequency


Inverse document
                        frequency (idf) is a collection-level
                    property. 
                    
                    The document
                        frequency (df) is the number of resources
                    containing a particular term. The inverse document frequency (idf) for a
                    term is defined as
                    idft = log(N/dft), 
                    where N is the total number of
                    documents. The inverse document frequency of a term decreases the more
                    documents contain the term, providing a discriminating factor for the
                    importance of terms in a query.
                (From §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models".)


domain


Every resource 
                    has some essence or type that distinguishes it from other
                        resources, which we call the resource domain.
Domain is an
                    intuitive notion that we can help define by contrasting it with the alternative
                    of ad hoc or arbitrary groupings
                    of resources that just happen to be in the same place at some moment, rather
                    than being based on natural or intrinsic characteristics. 
                (From §3.2.1, "Resource Domain".)



DRM







digital rights management (DRM)





DSM







Diagnostic and Statistical
                                    Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM)


(http://www.dsm5.org/)



ECM







Enterprise Content Management (ECM)




edge


See tree.



EDM







Enterprise Data Management (EDM)




effectivity


Many resources, or
                    their properties, also have locative or temporal effectivity, meaning that they come
                        into effect at a particular time and/or place; will almost certainly cease
                        to be effective at some future date, and may cease to be effective in
                        different places. 
(From §3.5.2, "Effectivity".)


element item


An
                                            element item has a set of
                                            attribute items, and a list of child nodes.
                                        These child nodes may include other element items, or they
                                        may be character items. 
                (From §8.2.2.2, "XML Information Set".)


encoding scheme


An encoding
                            scheme is a specialized writing system or syntax for
                        particular types of values. 
                (From §8.2.3.2, "Controlling Values".)


energy facet


One of Ranganathan's universal facets in colon classification.
                    The action or activity of the
                                    thing.
                (From §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification".)


entity


See resource.


entity type


See classes


enumeration


The simplest principle
                        for creating a category is enumeration; any
                        resource in a finite or countable set can be deemed a category member by
                        that fact alone. 
                (From §6.3.1, "Enumeration".)
See also extensional definition.


enumerative classification


Classification schemes in which all possible categories to which resources can
                    be assigned are defined explicitly are enumerative. 
                (From §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes".)


enumerative facets


Have mutually exclusive possible
                                    values.
                (From §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets".)


equivalence class


See categories


equivalence relationship


Any relationship that is both symmetric and
                            transitive is an equivalence
relationship; "is-equal-to" is obviously an
                        equivalence relationship because if A=B then B=A and if A=B and B=C, then
                        A=C. Other relationships can be equivalent without meaning "exactly
                            equal," as is the relationship of "is-congruent-to"
                        for all triangles. 
                (From §5.3.2.3, "Equivalence".)



ERP







Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)





ETL



Extract, Transform, and Load


expression


The
                    distinctions put forth by Lubetzky, Svenonius and other library science
                    theorists have evolved today into a four-step abstraction hierarchy (illustrated
                    in Figure 3.5, "The FRBR Abstraction Hierarchy for Identifying Resources.") between 
                    the abstract work, 
                    an expression in multiple formats or genres, 
                    a particular manifestation in one of
                    those formats or genres, and a specific physical 
                    item. 
                (From §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources".)


extensibility of classification


See flexibility


extension


See extensional definition


extensional definition


The simplest principle
                        for creating a category is enumeration; any
                        resource in a finite or countable set can be deemed a category member by
                        that fact alone. This principle is also known as extensional
                        definition, and the members of the set are called the
                        extension. 
                (From §6.3.1, "Enumeration".)


faceted classification


In a faceted
                        classification system, each resource is described
                using properties from multiple facets, but an agent searching for resources does not
                need to consider all of the properties (and consequently the facets) and does not
                need to consider them in a fixed order, which an enumerative hierarchical
                classification requires. 
                (From §7.4, "Faceted Classification".)


family resemblance


A second consequence is
                            that the sharing of some but not all properties creates what we call
                                family resemblances among the category
                            members; just as biological family members do not necessarily all share
                            a single set of physical features but still are recognizable as members
                            of the same family.
                (From §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance".)


feature


See property.


feature-activity inclusion


Feature-Activity is a relationship type in
                                    which the components are stages, phases, or sub activities that
                                    take place over time. This relationship is similar to
                                    component-object in that the components in the whole are
                                    arranged according to a structure or pattern.  
                (From §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships".)
See also inclusion


finding


What resources are available that "correspond
                                        to the user's stated search criteria" and thus can
                                    satisfy an information need? Before there were online catalogs
                                    and digital libraries, we found resources by referencing
                                    catalogs of printed resource descriptions incorporating the
                                    title, author, and subject terms as access points into the
                                    collection; the subject descriptions were the most important
                                    finding aids when the user had no particular resource in mind.
                                    Modern users accept that computerized indexing makes search
                                    possible over not only the entire description resource, but
                                    often over the entire content of the primary resource.
                                 
                (From §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions".)


flexibility of classification


A related principle about
                        maintaining classifications over time is flexibility, the degree to which the
                        classification can accommodate new categories. Computer scientists typically
                        describe this principle as extensibility, and library scientists
                        sometimes describe it as hospitality. 
                (From §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time".)



FOAF







Friend of a Friend (FOAF)


(http://www.foaf-project.org/)


focus


The contrast between
                        primary resources
                    and description
                        resources is very useful in many contexts, but when we look more
                    broadly at organizing systems, it is often difficult to distinguish them, and
                    determining which resources are primary and which are metadata is often just a decision about
                    which resource is currently the focus of our
                    attention. 
                (From §3.2.4, "Resource Focus".)


fonds


The "original
                        order" of the resources in an archive embodies the implicit or
                    explicit Organizing System of the person or entity that created the documents;
                    it is treated as an essential part of the meaning of the collection. As a
                    result, the unit of organization for archival collections is the fonds—the original
                        arrangement or grouping, preserving any hierarchy of
                            boxes, folders,
                            envelopes, and individual
                            documents—and
                    thus they are not re-organized according to other (perhaps more systematic)
                    classifications. 
                (From §1.3.2, "What Is Being Organized?".)


font


A font is a collection of glyphs used to depict some
                    set of characters. A Unicode
                    font explicitly associates each glyph with a particular number in the Unicode
                    character encoding. 
                (From §8.3.1, "Notations".)


form


We treat the set of implementation decisions about character
                    notations, syntax, and structure as the 
form
 of resource description 
                (From §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description".)


format





Information resources can exist in numerous
                        formats with the most basic format
                    distinction being whether the resource is physical or digital. 



framework


 A framework is a
                        set of concepts that provide the basic structure for understanding
                        a domain, enabling a common vocabulary for different explanatory
                        theories.
(From §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing".)



FRBR






Functional Requirements for Bibliographical
                            Records (FRBR)

(http://www.ifla.org/publications/functional-requirements-for-bibliographic-records)


frequency of use principle


Some
                        organization emerges implicitly through a frequency of
                            use principle. In your kitchen or clothes closet,
                        the resources you use most often migrate to the front because that is the
                        easiest place to return them after using them. 
                (From §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle"".)


globally unique identifier (GUID)





A globally unique
                        identifier (or GUID), is an identifier that will never be the
                    same as another identifier in any organizing system anywhere else. (Ed.)



glyph


A specific mark that can be
                    used to depict a character is a
                        glyph. 
                (From §8.3.1, "Notations".)
See also character, font


governance


Curation usually refers to the methods or
                        systems that add value to and preserve resources, while the
                    concept of governance more often
                    emphasizes the institutions or organizations that carry out those
                        activities. The former is most often used for libraries, museums,
                    or archives and the latter for enterprise or inter-enterprise contexts. 
                (From §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?".)



GPS



Global Positioning System 
(http://www.schriever.af.mil/GPS/)


gradience


Try to define "friend"
                    and then ask yourself if all of the people you consider friends are equally good
                    examples of the category. 
                    
 
                    This effect is also described as gradience
in category membership and reflects the extent to which the most
                    characteristic properties are shared.
                (From §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance".)


grammar


The
                        syntax and grammar of a language consists of the
                        rules that determine which combinations of its words are allowed
                    and are thus grammatical or well-formed. Natural languages differ immensely
                    in how they arrange nouns, verbs, adjectives, and other parts of speech to
                    create sentences. 
                (From §5.7.2, "Syntax and Grammar".)


granularity


 Granularity refers to the
                        level of detail or precision for a specific information resource property.
                        For instance, the postal address of a particular location might be
                        represented as several different data items, including the number, street
                        name, city, state, country and postal code (a high-granularity model). It
                        might also be represented in one single line including all of the
                        information above (a low-granularity model). 
                (From §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction".)


graph


Like a tree, a graph
consists of a set of nodes connected by edges. These edges may or
                        may not have a direction (§5.6.3, "Directionality"). If they do, the graph is referred to as a
                            "directed graph." If a graph is directed, it may be possible to start at a node
                        and follow edges in a path that leads back to the starting node. Such a path
                        is called a "cycle." If a directed graph has no cycles, it is
                        referred to as an "acyclic graph."
(From §8.2.1.6, "Graphs".)



GUID



Globally Unique Identifier


hierarchical classification


When
                    multiple resource properties are considered in a fixed sequence, each property
                    creates another level in the system of categories and the classification scheme
                    is hierarchical or taxonomic. 
                (From §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes".)


hierarchical facet


Organize resources by logical
                                    inclusion (§5.3.1.1).
                (From §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets".)
See also inclusion


homographs


When two words are spelled the same but have
                        different meanings they are homographs; if they
                        are also pronounced the same they are homonyms. If the different meanings of the
                        homographs are related, they are called polysemes. 
                (From §3.4.2.2, "Homonymy, Polysemy, and False Cognates".)


homonyms


Homonyms are
                homographs that are pronounced the same.
(From §3.4.2.2, "Homonymy, Polysemy, and False Cognates".)


hospitality of classification


See flexibility



HR



Human Resources



HTTP







Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)


(http://www.w3.org/Protocols/)


hypernym


When words encode the
                        semantic distinctions expressed by class inclusion, the word for the more
                        specific class in this relationship is called the 
                        hyponym, 
                        while
                        the word for the more general class to which it belongs is called the
                        hypernym. 
                (From §5.4.1.1, "Hyponymy and Hyperonymy".)


hypertext



                The
                        concept of read-only or follow-only structures that connect one document to
                        another is usually attributed to Vannevar Bush in his seminal 1945 essay titled "As We May Think."
                        Bush called it "associative
                            indexing," defined as "a provision whereby any item may be
                            caused at will to select immediately and automatically
                        another."
Theodor Holm Nelson, in a book intriguingly titled Literary Machines,
                        renamed associative indexing as hypertext decades later, expanding the idea to
                        make it a writing style as well as a reading style.
                (From §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links".)


Hypertext expresses relationships among resources. Hypertext is
                        "a provision whereby any item may be caused at will to select
                        immediately and automatically another." It can be used to create
                    non-sequential narratives that gives choices to readers. 

The field is vast and we would perform a disservice by attempting to summarize
                here. Instead, we can advise you that, within this text, we discuss hypertext as it
                has been practically applied by contemporary practitioners, using
                    SGML, HTML, XML and
                    RDF surface syntaxes to host a wide variety of link types.
            In particular, see Chapter 5 
                and Chapter 8.


hypertext link


The
                        concept of read-only or follow-only structures that connect one document to
                        another is usually attributed to Vannevar Bush in his seminal 1945 essay titled "As We May Think."
                        Bush called it "associative
                            indexing," defined as "a provision whereby any item may be
                            caused at will to select immediately and automatically
                        another."
(From §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links".)


hyponym


When words encode the
                        semantic distinctions expressed by class inclusion, the word for the more
                        specific class in this relationship is called the 
                        hyponym, 
                        while
                        the word for the more general class to which it belongs is called the
                        hypernym. 
                (From §5.4.1.1, "Hyponymy and Hyperonymy".)



IAU







International Astronomical
                            Union (IAU)


(http://www.iau.org/)



IBM






International Business Machines (IBM)

(http://www.ibm.com)


identifier


An identifier is a special
                        kind of name assigned in a controlled manner and governed by rules that
                        define possible values and naming conventions.
(From §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names".)


identifying


Another purpose of resource description is to enable
                                    a user to confirm the identity of a specific resource or to
                                    distinguish among several that have some overlapping
                                    descriptions. In bibliographic contexts this might mean finding
                                    the resource that is identified by its citation. Computer
                                    processable resource descriptions like bar codes,
                                        QR codes, or RFID tags are
                                    also used to identify resources. In Semantic Web contexts,
                                        URIs serve this purpose. 
                (From §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions".)


identity




When some thing or
                    things are treated as a single resource this establishes an identity. (Ed.)




IEEE



Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
(http://www.ieee.org/index.html)



IETF



Internet Engineering Task Force
(http://ietf.org)


implementation perspective


The implementation
                                perspective considers how the relationship is implemented in a
                                particular notation and syntax and the manner in which relationships
                                are arranged and stored in some technology
                                environment. 
                (From §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview".)


implicit classification


Because names and dates can take on a great many values, an organizing
                    principle like alphabetical
or chronological
ordering is unlikely to enumerate in advance an explicit category for
                    each possible value. Instead, we can consider these organizing principles as
                    creating an implicit or latent classification system in
                    which the categories are generated only as needed. For example, the Q category
                    only exists in an alphabetical scheme if there is a resource whose name starts
                    with Q. 
                (From §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes".)


imposed policies


Imposed Policies are
                        mandated by an external entity and the organizing system must
                        comply with them.
(From §2.4.3, "Access Policies".)


inclusion relationship


One entity type contains or
                                    is comprised of other entity types; often expressed using
                                        "is-a,"
"is-a-type-of,"
"is-part-of," or "is-in"
                                    predicates. 
                (From §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships".)
See also component-object, feature-activity inclusion, locative, member-collection, meronymic, part-whole, phase-activity, place-area, portion-mass, stuff-object, temporal, topological, taxonomy and
                    classification


index


An index is a description resource that
                        contains information about the locations and frequencies of terms
                        in a document collection
                        to enable it to be searched efficiently.
(From §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection"".)


individual categorization


Individual categories are created in an
                    organizing system to satisfy the ad
                        hoc requirements that arise from a person's unique
                    experiences, preferences, and resource collections. Unlike cultural categories,
                    which usually develop slowly and last a long time, individual categories are
                    created by intentional activity, in response to a specific situation, or to
                    solve an emerging organizational challenge. 
                (From §6.2.2, "Individual Categories".)


inflectional morphology


Inflectional mechanisms change the form of a word to represent tense,
                        aspect, agreement, or other grammatical information. Unlike derivation,
                        inflection never changes the part-of-speech of the base morpheme. The
                            inflectional morphology of English is
                        relatively simple compared with other languages. 
                (From §5.4.3.2, "Inflectional Morphology".)


informatics


Informatics is a broad academic category encompassing the science of information,
                including the automation of information processing. Computer science, information
                architecture and web architecture are among the related academic disciplines.


information architecture


Abstract patterns of information content or organization are sometimes
                        called architectures, so it is straightforward from the perspective of the
                        discipline of organizing to define the activity of information
                                architecture as designing an
                            abstract and effective organization of information and then exposing
                            that organization to facilitate navigation and information
                            use. 
                (From §2.3.2.2, ""Information Architecture" and Organizing Systems".)


information component


An 
                    information component 
                    can be: 
                    (1) Any piece of information that has a unique label or identifier or 
                    (2) Any piece of information that is self-contained and comprehensible on its own. 
                (From §3.3.3, "Identity and Information Components".)


information organization


Traditional information organization activities 
            include bibliographic description and cataloging.


information retrieval


Traditional information retrieval activities 
            include automated text processing, indexing and search.


instance


See resource.


institutional semantics


Systems of institutional
                                semantics offer precisely defined
                        abstractions or information
                            components (§3.3.3, "Identity and Information Components") needed to
                        ensure that information can be efficiently exchanged and used. 
                (From §7.1.5.2, "Institutional Semantics".)


institutional taxonomies


Institutional
                                taxonomies are classifications designed to
                        make it more likely that people or computational agents will organize and
                        interact with resources in the same way. Among the thousands of standards
                        published by the International Organization for
                                        Standardization (ISO) are many institutional taxonomies that
                        govern the classification of resources and products in agriculture,
                        aviation, construction, energy, healthcare, information technology,
                        transportation, and almost every other industry sector. 
                (From §7.1.5.1, "Institutional Taxonomies".)


integration


Use the same properties and terms
                                        for all types of resources whenever possible. 
                (From §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description".)
Integration
is the controlled sharing of information between two (or more)
                    business systems, applications, or services within or between firms. Integration means that one party can
                    extract or obtain information from another one, it does not imply that the
                    recipient can make use of the information. 
                (From §5.8.3, "Integration and Interoperability".)


integrity of classification


Changes in the meaning of the categories in a
                        classification threaten its integrity, the principle that categories
                        should not move within the structure of the classification
                        system. 
                (From §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time".)


intension


Categories
                    whose members are determined by one or more properties or rules follow the
                    principle of intensional
                        definition, and the defining properties are called
                    the intension. 
                (From §6.3.2, "Single Properties".)


intensional definition


Categories
                    whose members are determined by one or more properties or rules follow the
                    principle of intensional
                        definition, and the defining properties are called
                    the intension. 
                (From §6.3.2, "Single Properties".)


intentional arrangement


Intentional
                            arrangement
emphasizes explicit or implicit acts of organization by people, or by
                        computational processes acting as proxies for, or as implementations of,
                        human intentionality.
Intentional
                        arrangement excludes naturally occurring patterns created by
                    physical, geological, biological or genetic processes. 
                (From §1.2.3, "The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement"".)


interaction


An interaction is an action, function, service, or capability that makes use of the resources in a
                        collection or the collection as a whole. The interaction of
                            access is
                    fundamental in any collection of resources, but many Organizing Systems provide
                    additional functions to make access more efficient and to support additional interactions with the accessed resources.
                    For example, libraries and similar Organizing Systems implement catalogs to
                    enable interactions for finding a known resource, identifying any resource in the
                    collection, and discriminating or selecting among similar
                    resources. 
                (From §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions"".)


interoperability


Interoperability
goes beyond integration to mean that systems, applications, or
                    services that exchange information can make sense of what they receive.
                        Interoperability can
                    involve identifying corresponding components and relationships in each system,
                    transforming them syntactically to the same format, structurally to the same
                    granularity, and semantically to the same meaning. 
                (From §5.8.3, "Integration and Interoperability".)


intrinsic meaning interpretation


One of Panofsky's three levels of description for artistic resources.
                    At this level, context and deeper understanding come
                                    into play—including what the creator of
                                    the description knows about the situation in which the work was
                                    created. Why, for example, did this particular artist create
                                    this particular depiction of The Last
                                        Supper in this way? Panofsky posited that
                                    professional art historians are needed here, because they are
                                    the ones with the education and background necessary to draw
                                    meaning from a work.
                (From §4.4.1, "Describing Museum and Artistic Resources".)


inverse document frequency


Inverse document
                        frequency (idf) is a collection-level
                    property. 
                    
                    The document
                        frequency (df) is the number of resources
                    containing a particular term. The inverse document frequency (idf) for a
                    term is defined as
                    idft = log(N/dft), 
                    where N is the total number of
                    documents. The inverse document frequency of a term decreases the more
                    documents contain the term, providing a discriminating factor for the
                    importance of terms in a query.
                (From §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models".)


inverse relationship


For
                        asymmetric relationships, it is often useful to be explicit about the
                        meaning of the relationship when the order of the arguments in the
                        relationship is reversed. The resulting relationship is called the inverse
                        or the converse of the first relationship. 
                (From §5.3.2.4, "Inverse".)



ISBN







International 
                            Standard Book Number (ISBN)


(http://www.isbn.org/)



ISO







International Organization for
                                        Standardization (ISO)


(http://www.iso.org/iso/)


item


The
                    distinctions put forth by Lubetzky, Svenonius and other library science
                    theorists have evolved today into a four-step abstraction hierarchy (illustrated
                    in Figure 3.5, "The FRBR Abstraction Hierarchy for Identifying Resources.") between 
                    the abstract work, 
                    an expression in multiple formats or genres, 
                    a particular manifestation in one of
                    those formats or genres, and a specific physical 
                    item.
                (From §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources".)
See also resource


JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)


JavaScript Object
                                                  Notation (JSON)
 is a textual format for exchanging data that borrows
                                    its metamodel from the JavaScript programming language.
                                    Specifically, the JSON metamodel consists of
                                    two kinds of structures found in JavaScript: lists (called
                                        arrays in JavaScript) and dictionaries
                                    (called objects in JavaScript). Lists and
                                    dictionaries contain values, which may be strings of text,
                                    numbers, Booleans (true or false), or the null (empty) value.
                                    Again, these types of values are taken directly from JavaScript.
                                    Lists and dictionaries can be values too, meaning lists and
                                    dictionaries can be nested within one another to produce more
                                    complex structures such as tables and trees. 
                (From §8.2.2.1, "JSON".)



JPEG



Joint Photographic Experts Group
(http://www.jpeg.org/)



JSON



JavaScript Object
                                                  Notation (JSON)
 is a textual format for exchanging data that borrows
                                    its metamodel from the JavaScript programming language.
                                    Specifically, the JSON metamodel consists of
                                    two kinds of structures found in JavaScript: lists (called
                                        arrays in JavaScript) and dictionaries
                                    (called objects in JavaScript). Lists and
                                    dictionaries contain values, which may be strings of text,
                                    numbers, Booleans (true or false), or the null (empty) value.
                                    Again, these types of values are taken directly from JavaScript.
                                    Lists and dictionaries can be values too, meaning lists and
                                    dictionaries can be nested within one another to produce more
                                    complex structures such as tables and trees. 
                (From §8.2.2.1, "JSON".)
(http://www.json.org/)



KFC



Kentucky Fried Chicken 
(http://www.kfc.com/)



KM







Knowledge Management (KM)





LCC







Library of Congress Classification (LCC)


(http://www.loc.gov/catdir/cpso/lcc.html)


learns


See machine learning.


lexical gap


A lexical gap in a language exists
                    when it lacks a word for a concept that is expressed as a word in another
                    language.
(From lexical gap.)


lexical perspective


The lexical perspective focuses on how the conceptual description
                                of a relationship is expressed using words in a specific language. 
                (From §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview".)


linguistic relativity


Languages
                    differ a great deal in the words they contain and also in more fundamental ways
                    that they require speakers or writers to attend to details about the world or
                    aspects of experience that another language allows them to ignore. This idea is
                    often described as linguistic
                        relativity. 
                (From §6.2.1, "Cultural Categories".)


link


See hypertext link


link base





A link base is a collection of links stored separately from the
                    resources that they link. (Mentioned in the sidebar,
                            Perspectives on Hypertext Links.)




link type


When it is
                            evident, this semantic property of the link is called the link
                                    type.
(From §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links".)


list


A list, like a set, is a collection of items with an additional
                        constraint: their items are ordered. 
                (From §8.2.1.3, "Lists".)


literary warrant


The principle of literary
                                warrant holds that a
                        classification must be based only on the specific resources that are being
                        classified.
                (From §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme".)



LM






language models
                        (LM)



loading





Adding resources to a
                collection.




LOC-CN







Library of Congress 
                    Call Number (LOC-CN)





LOC-SH







Library of Congress 
                    Subject Headings (LOC-SH)




locative inclusion





Locative inclusion is a type of inclusion
                    relationship between an area and what it surrounds or contains.  It is most
                    often expressed using "is-in" as the relationship.  However, the
                    entity that is contained or surrounded is not a part of the including one, so
                    this is not a part-whole relationship.

See also §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"


logical hierarchy


If
                        multiple resource properties are considered in a fixed order, the
                    resulting arrangement forms a logical hierarchy.
                (From §2.3.3, "Organizing with Multiple Resource Properties".)


machine learning


machine learning is
                    a subfield of computer science that develops and applies algorithms that
                    accomplish tasks that are not explicitly programmed; creating categories and
                    assigning items to them is an important subset of machine learning. Two
                    subfields of machine learning that are particularly relevant to organizing
                    systems are supervised
                    and unsupervised
                    learning. 
                (From §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory".)



MADS







Metadata Authority Description Standard (MADS)


(http://www.loc.gov/standards/mads/)


maintaining


Managing and
                            adapting the resources and the organization imposed on them as needed to
                            support the interactions. 
                (From §2.1, "Introduction".)


manifestation


The
                    distinctions put forth by Lubetzky, Svenonius and other library science
                    theorists have evolved today into a four-step abstraction hierarchy (illustrated
                    in Figure 3.5, "The FRBR Abstraction Hierarchy for Identifying Resources.") between 
                    the abstract work, 
                    an expression in multiple formats or genres, 
                    a particular manifestation in one of
                    those formats or genres, and a specific physical 
                    item. 
                (From §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources".)


map


See dictionary


markup





Markup is an encoding of character content with a layer of
                    intentional coding, typically by surrounding the character text with
                        "pointy brackets" or tags whose name suggests a content type,
                    structural role, or formatting. (Ed.)



materiality


It is 
                      the requirement to recognize the 
                            materiality
                      of the environment that enables people to create and interact with digital resources
                (From §2.3.2, "Organizing Digital Resources".)


materials facet


Concerned with the actual substance
                                    of which a work is made, like "metal" or
                                        "bleach."
"Materials" differ from "Physical
                                        Attributes" in that the latter is more abstract than
                                    the former.  
                (From §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description".)


matter facet


One of Ranganathan's universal facets in colon classification.
                    The constituent material of the
                                    thing.
                (From §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification".)



member-collection inclusion


Member-Collection is the part-whole
                                    relationship type where "is-part-of" means
                                        "belongs-to," a weaker kind of association than
                                    component-object because there is no assumption that the
                                    component has a specific role or function in the whole.   
                (From §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships".)
See also inclusion


memory institution


The concept of
                        memory
                            institution broadly applies to a great many
                    organizing systems that share the goal of preserving knowledge and cultural heritage.  
            (From §2.5.1, "Motivations for Maintaining Resources".)


meronymic inclusion


See part-whole
See also inclusion



MeSH







Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)


(http://www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/)


metadata


Metadata is often defined as "data about
                            data," a definition that is nearly as ubiquitous as it is
                        unhelpful. A more content-full definition of metadata is that it is
                            structured description for information resources of any
                            kind, which makes it a superset of bibliographic
                            description.  
                (From §4.2.2.2, "Metadata".)
See also description resources


metamodels


When common sets of design
                decisions can be identified that are not specific to any one domain, they often
                become systematized in textbooks and in design practices, and may eventually be
                designed into standard formats and architectures for creating organizing systems.
                These formally recognized sets of design decisions are known as abstract models or
                        metamodels. Metamodels
                describe structures commonly found in resource descriptions and other information
                resources, regardless of the specific domain.  
                (From §8.2, "Structuring Descriptions".)


metonymy


Part-whole or
                        meronymic semantic relationships have lexical analogues in
                                metonomy, when an entity is described by
                        something that is contained in or otherwise part of it.  
                (From §5.4.1.2, "Metonymy".)


mixed content


Mixed
                                content distinguishes XML
                        from other data representation languages. It is this structural feature,
                        combined with the fact that child nodes in the XML Infoset
                            (§8.2.2.2) are ordered, that
                        makes it possible for XML documents to function both as
                        human reader-oriented, textual documents and as structured data formats. It
                        allows us to use natural language in writing descriptions while still
                        enabling us to identify content by type by embedding markup to enclose
                            "semantic nuggets" in otherwise undifferentiated
                        text.  
                (From §5.5.2, "Structural Relationships within a Resource".)


monothetic categories





Monothetic
                        categories are defined by necessary and sufficient
                    properties.

See classical categories


morphemes


See morphology


morphology


The basic building
                    blocks for words are called morphemes
and can express semantic concepts (when they are called root words ) or abstract concepts like
                        "pastness" or "plural"). The analysis of the ways
                    by which languages combine morphemes is called morphology.  
                (From §5.4.3, "Relationships among Word Forms".)



MPAA



Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA)
(http://www.mpaa.org/)


n-ary links


n-ary
                        links connect one anchor to multiple types of
                    destinations.
(Mentioned in n-ary
                            links.)


name


A name is
                        a label for a resource that is used to distinguish one from
                        another.
(From §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names".)


name matching


In organizing
                        systems that contain data, there are numerous tools for name
                            matching, the task of determining when
                            two different text strings denote the same person, object, or other
                            named entity.
(From §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation".)


namespace


We can prevent or
                        reduce identifier collisions by adding information about the namespace, the domain from which the names
                        or identifiers are selected, thus creating what are often called
                                qualified
                            names.  
                (From §3.4.3.4, "Make Identifiers Unique or Qualified".)



NAPO








National Association of Professional
                                Organizers (NAPO)


(http://www.napo.net/)


natural language processing



Natural language processing



navigation


If users are not able to specify their
                                        information needs in a way that the finding functionality requires, they should
                                        be able to use relational and structural descriptions among
                                        the resources to navigate from any resource to other ones
                                        that might be better. Svenonius emphasizes generalization,
                                        aggregation, and derivational
                                        relationships.  
                (From §4.3.2.2, "Resource Description to Support Organizing".)



NCSA



National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA)
(http://www.ncsa.illinois.edu/)



NFL



National Football League (NFL)
(http://www.nfl.com/)



NIH



National Institute of Health (NIH)
(http://www.nih.gov/)



NIST



National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
(http://www.nist.gov/)



NLP



Natural Language Processing (NLP)


node





Nodes are objects
                    in an entity-relationship system. 

In the RDF metamodel,
                        a pair of nodes and its edge is called a triple, because it consists of three parts
                        (two nodes and one edge). The RDF metamodel is a directed graph, so it
                        identifies one node (the one from which the edge is pointing) as the
                            subject of the triple,
                        and the other node (the one to which the edge is pointing) as its object. The edge is referred to as the
                            predicate or (as we
                        have been saying) property of the
                        triple.  
                (From §8.2.2.3, "RDF".)


notation


A notation
                a set of characters with distinct forms.  
                (From §8.3.1, "Notations".)
The Latin alphabet is a notation, as are Arabic numerals. Some more exotic notations include alchemical symbols and the symbols
                used for editorial markup.



NSF



National Science Foundation (NSF)
(http://www.nsf.gov/)



OASIS



Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards  (OASIS)
(https://www.oasis-open.org/)


object


In the RDF metamodel,
                        a pair of nodes and its edge is called a triple, because it consists of three parts
                        (two nodes and one edge). The RDF metamodel is a directed graph, so it
                        identifies one node (the one from which the edge is pointing) as the
                            subject of the triple,
                        and the other node (the one to which the edge is pointing) as its object. The edge is referred to as the
                            predicate or (as we
                        have been saying) property of the
                        triple.  
                (From §8.2.2.3, "RDF".)
See also: resource


object warrant


With
                        classifications of physical resources like those in a kitchen, we see
                            object warrant,
                        where similar objects are put together, but more frequently the justifying
                        principle will be one of use warrant, where resources are organized based on
                        how they are used.
                (From §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme".)


objectivity


Although every classification has
                                        an explicit or implicit bias (§7.2.3, "Classification Is Biased"), facets and facet values should be as unambiguous and
                                        concrete as possible to enable reliable classification of
                                        instances.  
                (From §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics".)


objects facet


The largest facet, objects contains the
                                    actual works, like "sandcastles" and "screen
                                        prints."
(From §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description".)


obtaining



Physical resources often require significant
                                        effort to obtain after they have been selected. Catching a
                                            bus or plane involves coordinating
                                        your current location and time with the time and location
                                        the resource is available. With information resources in physical form,
                                        obtaining a selected resource usually meant a walk through
                                        the library stacks. With
                                        digital information resources, a search engine returns a
                                        list of the identifiers of resources that can be accessed
                                        with just another click, so it takes little effort to go
                                        from selecting among the query results to obtaining the
                                        corresponding primary resource.
(From §4.3.2.2, "Resource Description to Support Organizing".)



OCLC







Online Computer Library
                            Center (OCLC)


(http://www.oclc.org/)



OMG



Object Management Group (OMG)
(http://www.omg.org/)


one-way





Allowing physical or conceptual movement in one
                    direction only. (Ed.)



one-way link


A one-way
                        link asserts a link from a resource to one or more resources. A
                    one-way link does not imply a link in the return direction, or among the target
                    resources. 
(From one-way.)
See also hypertext
See also directionality


ontology


Ontology is a branch of philosophy concerned with what exists in
                    reality and the general features and relations of whatever that might be.
                    Computer science has adopted ontology to
                    refer to any computer-processable resource that represents the relationships
                    among words and meanings in some knowledge domain.
(See ontology


organize


To organize is to create capabilities by
                    intentionally imposing order and structure.
(From §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing".)


organizing


Specifying the principles or rules that will be followed to arrange the
                            resources.  
                (From §2.1, "Introduction".)


organizing principles


Organizing principles are directives
                            for the design or arrangement of a collection of resources that are ideally expressed in a
                            way that does not assume any particular implementation or
                            realization.
(From §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle""


organizing system


Organizing System:
an intentionally arranged collection of resources and the interactions
                    they support.
(From §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing".)


orthogonality


Facets should be independent
                                        dimensions, so a resource can have values of all of them
                                        while only having one value on each of them.   
                (From §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics".)


part-whole inclusion


Part-whole
                                inclusion or meronymic
                                inclusion is a second type of inclusion
                        relationship. It is usually expressed using "is-part-of,"
"is-partly," or with other similar predicate
                        expressions.  
                (From §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships".)
See also inclusion


passive resources


Passive
                                resources are usually tangible and static and
                        thus they become valuable only as a result of some action or
                            interaction with them.
(From §3.2.3.1, "Passive or Operand Resources".)



PDF



Portable Document Format (PDF)
(http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/adobepdf.html)


persistence


Persistence is the quality of resisting change over
                    time.
See §3.5.1, "Persistence" and §4.3.3, "Identifying Properties".


personality facet


One of Ranganathan's universal facets in colon classification.
                    The type of
                                thing.
                (From §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification".)



phase-activity inclusion


Phase-Activity is similar to feature-activity except that the phases do not
                                    make sense as standalone activities without the context provided
                                    by the activity as a whole.  
                (From §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships".)
See also inclusion


physical attributes facet


Material characteristics
                                    that can be measured and perceived, like "height"
                                    and "flexibility."
(From §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description".)



PIM



Personal Information Management (PIM)


place-area inclusion


Place-Area
                                    relationships exist between areas and specific places or
                                    locations within them. Like members of collections, places have
                                    no particular functional contribution to the whole.   
                (From §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships".)
See also inclusion


polysemes


If the different meanings of the homographs
                    are related, they are called polysemes.
(From §3.4.2.2, "Homonymy, Polysemy, and False Cognates".)


polysemy


Polysemy is
                    the linguistic term for words with multiple meanings or senses.
(From §3.4.2.2, "Homonymy, Polysemy, and False Cognates".)


polythetic


Categories defined by family resemblance or
                    multiple and shifting property sets are termed polythetic.
(From polythetic.)


portion-mass inclusion


Portion-Mass is the relationship type
                when all the parts are similar to each other and to the whole.
                (From §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships".)
See also inclusion


possession relationship


Asserting ownership or
                                        control of a resource; often expressed using a
                                        "has" predicate, such as
                                        "has-serial-number-plate."
(From §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships".)


precision


Precision measures the
                        accuracy of a result set,
                    that is, how many of the retrieved resources for a query are relevant.  
                (From §9.5.2.2, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff".)


predicate


A predicate
is a verb phrase template for specifying properties of objects
                    or a relationship among objects.
(From §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective".)


preservation





Preservation is a maintenance activity.



preservation metadata


Preservation metadata is technical information about resource
                    formats and technology needed to ensure resource and collection integrity in a
                    maintenance context.
(From §4.3.2.4, "Resource Description to Support Maintenance".)


primary resource


Treating as a primary resource
anything that can be identified is an important
                    generalization of the concept because it enables web-based services, data feeds,
                    objects with RFID tags, sensors or
                    other smart devices, or
                        computational agents to be part of Organizing
                    Systems.
                (From §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource"".)


primary subject matter


One of Panofsky's three levels of description for artistic
                resources. At this level, we describe the most basic elements
                                    of a work in a generic way that would be recognizable by anyone
                                    regardless of expertise or training. The painting The
                                        Last Supper, for example, might be described as
                                        "13 people having dinner."
(From §4.4.1, "Describing Museum and Artistic Resources".)


property


In this book we use
                        property
in a generic and ordinary sense as a synonym for 
                    feature
                    or "characteristic." 
                    Many cognitive and computer scientists are
                    more precise in defining these terms and reserve property for binary predicates (e.g.,
                    something is red or not, round or not, and so on). If multiple values are
                    possible, the property is called
                    an attribute,
"dimension," or "variable."
(From §2.3, "Organizing Resources".)


property-based categorization


Property-based
                            categorization works tautologically well for
                    categories like "prime number" where the category is defined by
                    necessary and sufficient properties. Property-based categorization also works
                    well when properties are conceptually distinct and the value of a property is
                    easy to perceive and examine, as they are with man-made physical resources like
                    shirts.  
                (From §6.3.4, "The Limits of Property-Based Categorization".)


propositional synonyms


Propositional synonyms
are not identical in meaning, they are equivalent
                            enough in most contexts in that 
                         
                            substituting one for the other will not change the truth value
                        of the sentence that uses them.  
                (From §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy".)


provenance


Provenance
                    is the history of the ownership of a collection or the resources in it, where
                    they have been and who has possessed them. In organizing systems like museums
                    and archives that preserve rare or culturally important objects or documents,
                        provenance describes a record of who has
                    authenticated a resource over time. 
(From §3.5.4, "Provenance"



QR



Quick Response (QR)
(http://www.iso.org/iso/iso_catalogue/catalogue_tc/catalogue_detail.htm?csnumber=43655)


qualified names


Qualified
                        names are identifiers which explicitly identify the domain, or
                    namespace, from which they are drawn, thereby reducing identifier
                    collision.
(From §3.4.3.4, "Make Identifiers Unique or Qualified".)


quality




A quality is
                    an attribute or property of a resource. A quality is logically ascribable by a
                    subject. (Ed.)

Quality is a measure of the fitness of purpose of
                a resource or service. It is the difference between what was planned or expected
                versus what was realized or manifest; it is as an assessment of the suitability of a
                resource or interaction. (Ed.)


querying





A common interaction with an organizing
                    system. 




RDF






Resource Description Framework (RDF)


(http://www.w3.org/RDF/)


RDF vocabulary


A set of RDF
                        predicate names and URIs is known as an RDF
                        vocabulary.  
                (From §8.2.3.1, "Specifying Vocabularies and Schemas".)


reachability


Reachability is the "can you get there from
                        here" property between two resources in a directed graph.
(From §5.5.3.2, "Analyzing Link Structures".)


recall


Recall measures the completeness of the result
                    set, that is, how many of the relevant resources in a collection were
                    retrieved.  
                (From §9.5.2.2, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff".)


regular expressions


Regular expressions are used in
                    computing for matching text patterns. A regular expression is written in a
                    formal language, which may vary among implementations. Regular expressions are
                    supported by many text editors and search engines. Schema languages employ
                    regular expressions to specify the format of element and attribute
                    values. For example, a regular expression for a North American
                telephone number might be: ^\(?([2-9][0-9]{2})\)?[-. ]?([0-9]{3})[-.
                    ]?([0-9]{4})$


relationship


A relationship is an association among several things,
                    with that association having a particular significance. 
(From §5.1, "Introduction".)


relevance


The concept of
                    relevance and its relationship 
                    to effectiveness is pivotal in
                    information retrieval and machine learning interactions.  
                (From §9.5.2, "Effectiveness".)


reporting





A common interaction with an organizing
                    system.



representation


A principle of good descriptions: Use
                                        descriptions that reflect how the resources describe
                                        themselves; assume that self-descriptions are
                                        accurate.  
                (From §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description".)


resolution


For a digital resource, its
                    identifier serves as the input to the system or function that determines its
                    location so it can be retrieved, a process called resolving
                    the identifier or resolution.  
                (From §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names".)


resource


Resource has an ordinary
                    sense of anything of value that can support goal-oriented
                        activity. This definition means that a resource can be a
                        physical thing, a non-physical thing, information about
                    physical things, information about non-physical things, or anything you want to
                    organize. Other words that aim for this broad scope are entity, object, item, and instance. Document is often used for an information
                    resource in either digital or physical format; artifact refers to resources created by
                    people, and asset for resources
                    with economic value.
Resource has specialized meaning in Internet
                    architecture. It is conventional to describe web pages, images, videos, and so
                    on as resources, and the
                    protocol for accessing them, 
                    Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), 
                    uses the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI).  
                (From §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource"".)


resource description


We 
            describe resources so that we can refer to them,
            distinguish among them, search for them, manage access to them, and preserve them.
            Each purpose might require different 
            resource descriptions. 
            We use resource descriptions 
            in every communication and conversation, 
            and they are the enablers of organizing systems.


Resource Description Framework (RDF)


The Resource Description Framework (RDF)
metamodel is a directed graph,
                    so it identifies one node (the one from which the edge is pointing) as the
                    subject of the triple, and the other node (the one to which the edge is
                    pointing) as its object. The edge is referred to as the predicate of the triple.
(From §8.2.2.3, "RDF".)



RFID



Radio-frequency Identification (RFID)
See US Patent 4,384,288


rich descriptions





Rich
                        descriptions are created by trained and disciplined
                    professionals, often in institutional contexts.

See §4.3.6, "Creating Resource Descriptions"


root word


The form of a word after all affixes are
                    removed.
(From §5.4.3, "Relationships among Word Forms".)


scalability


Facet values must accommodate
                                        potential additions to the set of instances. Including an
                                            "Other" value is an easy way to ensure that
                                        a facet is flexible and hospitable to new instances, but it
                                        not desirable if all new instances will be assigned that
                                        value.  
                (From §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics".)


scale





The number of resources and interactions that the
                collection entails. (Ed.)



schema


A schema (or model, or
                        metadata standard) specifies the set of descriptions that apply to
                            an entire resource type.
(From §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description".)


scientific warrant


The principle of scientific
                            warrant argues that only the categories
                        recognized by the scientists or experts in a domain should be used in a
                        classification system, and it is often opposed by the principle of
                            use or 
                        user warrant, which
                        chooses categories and descriptive terms according to their frequency of use
                        by everyone, not just experts.
                (From §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme".)


scope


The resource 
domain
 and 
scope
 circumscribe the describable properties and the possible
                        purposes that descriptions might serve.  
                (From §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources".)


secondary subject matter


One of Panofsky's three levels of description for artistic
                resources. Here, we introduce a level of basic cultural
                                    understanding into a description. Someone familiar with a common
                                    interpretation of the Bible, for example, could now see
                                        The Last Supper as representing Jesus
                                    surrounded by his disciples.
                (From §4.4.1, "Describing Museum and Artistic Resources".)


selecting


Determining the
                            scope of the organizing system by specifying which resources should be
                            included.
Selecting in this context means the user activity of using
                                    resource descriptions to support a choice of resource from a
                                    collection, not the institutional activity of selecting
                                    resources for the collection in the first place. Search engines
                                    typically use a short "text snippet" with the query
                                    terms highlighted as resource descriptions to support selection.
                                    People often select resources with the least restrictions on
                                    uses as described in a Creative Commons
                                    license.  
                (From §4.3.2.2, "Resource Description to Support Organizing".)


self-organizing systems


Self-organizing systems can change
                        their internal structure or their function in response to feedback or
                        changed circumstances.
(From §1.2.3, "The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement"".)


semantic balance


Top-level facets should be the
                                        properties that best differentiate the resources in the
                                        classification domain. The values should be of equal
                                        semantic scope so that resources are distributed among the
                                        subcategories. Subfacets of "Cookware" like
                                            "Sauciers and Saucepans" and
                                            "Roasters and Brasiers" are semantically
                                        balanced as they are both named and grouped by cooking
                                        activity.  
                (From §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics".)


semantic gap


The
semantic gap  is the difference in
                            perspective in naming and description when resources are described by
                            automated processes rather than by people.
(From §3.4.2.5, "The Semantic Gap".)


semantic perspective


The semantic perspective characterizes
                the meaning of the association between resources.
                (From §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview".)


semantic web


The vision
                    of a Semantic
                            Web world builds upon the web world, but adds
                    some further prescriptions and constraints for how to structure descriptions.
                    The Semantic Web world unifies the concept of a resource as it has been
                    developed in this book, with the web notion of a resource as anything with a
                        URI. On the Semantic Web, anything being described must
                    have a URI. Furthermore, the descriptions must be structured as
                    graphs, adhering to the RDF metamodel and relating resources to
                    one another via their URIs. Advocates of Linked Data further
                    prescribe that those descriptions must be made available as representations
                    transferred over HTTP.  
                (From §8.4.3, "The Semantic Web World".)


sensemaking


Sensemaking (or sense-making) is 
            the set of processes used by humans 
            to derive meaning from experience 
            or to enhance our understanding.
            Philosophy, the cognitive sciences and linguistics 
            are among the related academic disciplines.
        



SEO



Search Engine Optimization (SEO)


set


The simplest
                        way to structure a description is to give it parts and treat them as a
                            set.
                (From §8.2.1.2, "Sets".)


Shepardizing


The analysis of legal citations to determine whether a cited case is
                still good law is called Shepardizing because lists
                of cases annotated in this way were first published in the late 1800s by Frank
                Shepard, a salesman for a legal publishing company.
                (From §5.5.3.3, "Bibliometrics, Shepardizing, and Social Network Analysis".)



SKOS







Simple Knowledge Organization System (SKOS)


(http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/)



SKU



Stock Keeping Unit (SKU)


similarity


Similarity
                    is a very flexible notion whose meaning depends on the domain within which we
                    apply it, thereby requiring specification of how the similarity measure is
                    determined. There are four major psychological approaches that propose different
                    functions for frameworks:  feature- or property-based, geometry-based,
                    alignment-based, and transformational. 
(From §6.3.6, "Similarity".)


simple description


Automated processes create simple descriptions by extracting data from the
                    resource itself.
(From §4.4.5, "Describing Resource Context".)


smart things


See active resources.


social classification


Using any property of a resource
                    to create a description is an uncontrolled and often unprincipled principle for
                    creating categories is called social
                        classification or tagging.
(From §7.1.2, "Classification vs. Tagging".)



SOA



Service Oriented Architecture


space facet


One of Ranganathan's universal facets in colon classification.
                    Where the thing occurs.
                (From §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification".)


spectrum facets


Assume a range of numerical values with a defined minimum and
                                    maximum. Price and date are common spectrum facets. The ranges
                                    are often modeled as mutually exclusive regions (potential price
                                    facet values might include "$0 - $49,"
"$50 - $99," and "$100 -
                                    $149").
                (From §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets".)



SQL



Structured Query Language (SQL)
ISO/IEC 9075:2011 "Information technology - Database languages - SQL"


standardization


A principle of good description: Standardize descriptions to the extent practical, but also
                                        use aliasing to allow for commonly used terms.  
                (From §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description".)


statistical pattern recognition


See unsupervised learning 


stemming


These
                                    processing steps normalize inflectional and derivational
                                    variations in terms, e.g., by removing the "-ed"
                                    from verbs in the past tense. This homogenization can be done by
                                    following rules (stemming) or by using dictionaries
                                    (lemmatization). Rule-based stemming algorithms are easy to
                                    implement, but can result in wrongly normalized word groups, for
                                    example when "university" and
                                        "universe" are both stemmed to
                                        "univers."
(From §9.3.2, "Transforming Resources for Interactions".)


stopword elimination


Stopwords are those words in a language that occur very
                                        frequently and are not very semantically
                                        expressive. Stopwords are usually articles,
                                    pronouns, prepositions, or conjunctions. Since they occur in
                                    every text, they can be removed because they cannot distinguish
                                    them. Of course, in some cases, removing stopwords might remove
                                    semantically important phrases (e.g., "To be or not to
                                        be").  
                (From §9.3.2, "Transforming Resources for Interactions".)


storage


Storage is a maintenance activity.
See also preservation, curation


structural perspective


The structural perspective analyzes the
                patterns of association, arrangement, proximity, or connection between resources
                without primary concern for their meaning or the origin of these
                relationships. 
                (From §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview".)


structured descriptions


See §4.3.6, "Creating Resource Descriptions"


stuff-object inclusion


Stuff-Object relationships are most often
                                    expressed using "is-partly" or
                                        "is-made-of" and are distinguishable from
                                    component-object ones because the stuff cannot be separated from
                                    the object without altering its identity. The stuff is not a
                                    separate ingredient that is used to make the object; it is a
                                    constituent of it once it is made.   
                (From §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships".)
See also inclusion


styles and periods facet


Artistic and architectural
                                    eras and stylistic groupings, such as "Renaissance"
                                    and "Dada."
(From §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description".)


subject


In the RDF metamodel,
                        a pair of nodes and its edge is called a triple, because it consists of three parts
                        (two nodes and one edge). The RDF metamodel is a directed graph, so it
                        identifies one node (the one from which the edge is pointing) as the
                            subject of the triple,
                        and the other node (the one to which the edge is pointing) as its object. The edge is referred to as the
                            predicate or (as we
                        have been saying) property of the
                        triple.  
                (From §8.2.2.3, "RDF".)


sufficiency and necessity


Descriptions should have
                                        enough information to serve their purposes and not contain
                                        information that is not necessary for some purpose; this
                                        might imply excluding some aspects of self-descriptions that
                                        are insignificant.   
                (From §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description".)


supervised learning


In unsupervised
                        learning, the program gets the samples but has to
                    come up with the categories on its own by discovering the underlying
                    correlations between the items; that is why unsupervised learning is sometimes
                    called statistical pattern
                            recognition.
(From §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory"


surrogate resource


See description resources.



SUV



Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV)



SVM



Support Vector Machine (SVM)


symmetric relationships





Symmetric relationships are bi-directional; they
                    express the same relationship from the subject to object as they do from the
                    object to the subject. For example, "is-married-to."




synonym


When something has more than one name, each of
                    the multiple names is a synonym or alias.
(From §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy".)


synonymy


Synonymy is
                    the relationship between words that express the same semantic concept.
(From §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy".)


synset


An unordered set of synonyms is often called a
                        synset. Synsets are interconnected by both
                    semantic relationships and lexical ones, enabling navigation in either
                    space.
(From §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy".)


syntax


The
                        syntax and grammar of a language consists of the
                        rules that determine which combinations of its words are allowed
                    and are thus grammatical or well-formed. Natural languages differ immensely
                    in how they arrange nouns, verbs, adjectives, and other parts of speech to
                    create sentences.  
                (From §5.7.2, "Syntax and Grammar".)


tag cloud


Folksonomies are often displayed in the form
                    of a tag cloud,where the frequency with which
                    the tag is used throughout the site determines the size of the text in the tag
                    cloud. The tag cloud emerges through the bottom-up aggregation of user tags and
                    is a statistical construct, rather than a semantic one. 
(From §7.1.2, "Classification vs. Tagging"


tagging


Using any property of a resource to create a
                    description is an uncontrolled and often unprincipled principle for creating
                    categories is called social classification or
                        tagging. 
(From §7.1.2, "Classification vs. Tagging"


tagsonomy


When users or
                    communities establish sets of principles to govern their tagging practices,
                    tagging is even more like classification. Such a tagging system can be called a
                        tagsonomy, a neologism
                    we have invented to describe more systematic tagging.
                (From §7.1.2, "Classification vs. Tagging"


taskonomy


A task or activity-based classification
                    system is called a taskonomy. 
(From §7.5, "Classification by Activity Structure"


taxonomic classification


When multiple resource
                    properties are considered in a fixed sequence, each property creates another
                    level in the system of categories and the classification scheme is hierarchical or taxonomic. 
(From §7.5, "Classification by Activity Structure"


taxonomic facets


Taxonomic
                        facets, also known as hierarchical facets are based on logical
                    containment.
(From §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets"


taxonomy


A taxonomy is
                    a hierarchy that is created by a set of interconnected class inclusion
                    relationships.
(From §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"
See also inclusion



TEI







Text Encoding
                                Initiative (TEI)


(http://www.tei-c.org/index.xml)


temporal inclusion


Temporal inclusion is a type of inclusion
                    relationship between a temporal duration and what it surrounds or contains.  It
                    is most often expressed using "is-in" as the relationship. 
                    However, the entity that is contained or surrounded is not a part of the
                    including one, so this is not a part-whole relationship.
(From §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion".)
See also inclusion


term frequency


A vector space ranking utilizes an
                    intrinsic resource property, the number of individual terms in a resource,
                    called the term frequency. For each term, term
                    frequency measures how many times the term appears in a resource.
(From §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models"


theory-based category


Another principle for creating categories is
                    organizing things in ways that fit a theory or story that makes a particular
                    categorization sensible. A theory-based category can win out even if
                        family resemblance
                    or similarity with respect to
                    visible properties would lead to a different category assignment.
                (From §6.3.7, "Theory-Based Categories".)


thesaurus


A thesaurus
                    is a reference work that organizes words according to their semantic and lexical
                    relationships.  Thesauri are often used by professionals when they describe
                    resources.
(From §5.4.2, "Thesauri".)


time facet


One of Ranganathan's universal facets in colon classification.
                    When the thing occurs.
                (From §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification".)


tokenization


Segments the stream of characters (in
                                    an encoding scheme, a space is also a character) into textual
                                    components, usually words. In English, a simple rule-based
                                    system can separate words using spaces. However, punctuation
                                    makes things more complicated. For example, periods at the end
                                    of sentences should be removed, but periods in numbers should
                                    not. Other languages introduce other problems for tokenization;
                                    in Chinese, a space does not mark the divisions between
                                    individual concepts.
                (From the sidebar Text Processing in
                        §9.3.2, "Transforming Resources for Interactions".)


topological inclusion


Topological inclusion is a type of inclusion
                    relationship between a container and what it surrounds or contains.  It is most
                    often expressed using "is-in" as the relationship.  However, the
                    entity that is contained or surrounded is not a part of the including one, so
                    this is not a part-whole relationship.
(From §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion".)
See also inclusion


training set


A training
                        set for supervised learning is taken from the labeled instances.
                    The remaining instances are used for validation.
(From §7.6, "Computational Classification".)


transclusion


The inclusion, by
                        hypertext reference, of a resource or part of a resource into another
                        resource is called transclusion. Transclusion is normally
                        performed automatically, without user intervention. The inclusion of
                        images in web documents is an example of transclusion. Transclusion is a
                        frequently used technique in business and legal document processing,
                        where re-use of consistent and up-to-date content is essential to
                        achieve efficiency and consistency.
                (From transclusion.)


transformation


Transformation is a very broad concept but in the
                    context of organizing systems it typically means a change in a resource
                    representation or description. The transformation can involve the selection,
                    restructuring, or rearrangement of resources or parts of them.
(See §9.3.2, "Transforming Resources for Interactions".)


transitivity


Transitivity is another property that can
                        apply to semantic relationships. When a relationship is transitive, if X and
                        Y have a relationship, and Y and Z have the same relationship, then X also
                        has the relationship with Z. Any relationship based on ordering is
                        transitive, which includes numerical, alphabetic, and chronological ones as
                        well as those that imply qualitative or quantitative measurement.
                (From §5.3.2.2, "Transitivity".)


tree








Trees consist of nodes joined by edges, recursively nested. When
                    a single, root dictionary is connected to child nodes that are themselves
                    dictionaries, we say that the dictionaries are nested into
                    a kind of tree structure. 

A tree is a constrained graph. Trees are directed
                graphs because the "parent of" relationship between nodes is
                asymmetric: the edges are arrows that point in a certain direction. Trees are
                    acyclic graphs, because if you follow the directed edges
                from one node to another, you can never encounter the same node twice. Finally,
                trees have the constraint that every node (except the root) must have exactly one
                parent. (From §8.2.1.5, "Trees".)


triple


In the RDF metamodel,
                        a pair of nodes and its edge is called a triple, because it consists of three parts
                        (two nodes and one edge). The RDF metamodel is a directed graph, so it
                        identifies one node (the one from which the edge is pointing) as the
                            subject of the triple,
                        and the other node (the one to which the edge is pointing) as its object. The edge is referred to as the
                            predicate or (as we
                        have been saying) property of the
                        triple.  
                (From §8.2.2.3, "RDF".)


typicality





Typicality
                    or centrality considers some members of the
                    category better examples than others, even if they share most properties.
                    (From §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance".)





UK



United Kingdom (UK)
(https://www.gov.uk/)



UN



United Nations (UN)
(http://www.un.org/en/)


uniqueness principle


The
                            uniqueness
                            principle means the categories in a
                        classification scheme are mutually exclusive. Thus, when a logical concept
                        is assigned to a particular category, it cannot simultaneously be assigned
                        to another category.  
                (From §7.2.2.2, "Principles for Assigning Resources to Categories".)


unsupervised learning


In unsupervised
                        learning, the program gets the samples but has to
                    come up with the categories on its own by discovering the underlying
                    correlations between the items; that is why unsupervised learning is sometimes
                    called statistical pattern
                            recognition.
(From: §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory"
See also: machine learning and supervised learning



URI



Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)
(http://www.w3.org/Addressing/)



URL



Uniform Resource Locator (URL)
(http://www.w3.org/TR/url/)



URN



Uniform Resource Name (URN)
(http://www.w3.org/TR/uri-clarification/)


user convenience


Choose description terms with
                                        the user in mind; these are likely to be terms in common
                                        usage among the target audience.  
                (From §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description".)


user warrant


The principle of scientific
                            warrant argues that only the categories
                        recognized by the scientists or experts in a domain should be used in a
                        classification system, and it is often opposed by the principle of
                            use or 
                        user warrant, which
                        chooses categories and descriptive terms according to their frequency of use
                        by everyone, not just experts.
                (From §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme".)


validation


Validation
                    is the process of verifying that a document or data structure conforms with its
                    schema or schemas. Markup validation confirms the structure of the document.
                    Type validation confirms that the content of leaf nodes conforms with the
                    specification of data types. Content validation confirms that the values of the
                    leaf nodes are appropriate. Link validation confirms the integrity of the links
                    between nodes and between documents. Cross validation is the method commonly
                    used for model selection. Business rule validation confirms compliance with
                    business rules. 
(Discussed in §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories", 
                    §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics",
                    §8.2.3.1, "Specifying Vocabularies and Schemas"



value


We distinguish between the
                    type of the attribute and the
                        value
that it has. For example, the color of any object is an attribute of the object, and the
                        value of that attribute might be
                    "green."
(From §5.3.1.2, "Attribution".)



VIAF







Virtual International Authority File (VIAF)


(http://viaf.org/)


viewing


Viewing is a central interaction in
                museums and zoos.
See also collection development



VIN



Vehicle Identification Number (VIN)
(ISO 3779:2009)


visiting


Visiting is a central interaction in
                museums and zoos.
See also collection development


visualization


A common interaction with an organizing system.


visual signature


The 
                    visual signature
                of an image is extracted from low-level features like color, shape, texture, and
                luminosity, which are then used to distinguish significant regions and objects.
                Image similarity is computed to create categories of images that contain the same
                kinds of objects or settings.
                (From §4.4.2, "Describing Images".)


vocabulary problem


Every
                        natural language offers more than one way to express any thought, and in
                        particular there are usually many words that can be used to refer to the
                        same thing or concept. The words people choose to name or describe things
                        are embodied in their experiences and context, so people will often disagree
                        in the words they use. Moreover, people are often a bit surprised when it
                        happens, because what seems like the natural or obvious name to one person
                        is not natural or obvious to another.
                (From §3.4.2.1, "The Vocabulary Problem".)



VPN



Virtual Private Network


warrant principle


The warrant
                        principle concerns the justification for the choice of categories and the
                        names given to them.
                (From §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme".)
See also: literary warrant, scientific warrant, user warrant and
                    object warrant


work


An abstract idea of an author's intellectual or artistic
                creation.
The
                    distinctions put forth by Lubetzky, Svenonius and other library science
                    theorists have evolved today into a four-step abstraction hierarchy (illustrated
                    in Figure 3.5, "The FRBR Abstraction Hierarchy for Identifying Resources.") between 
                    the abstract work, 
                    an expression in multiple formats or genres, 
                    a particular manifestation in one of
                    those formats or genres, and a specific physical 
                    item.
                (From §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources".)


writing system


A
                        writing
                            system employs one or more notations, and adds a
                    set of rules for using them. Most writing systems assume knowledge of a
                    particular human language. These writing systems are known as
                        glottic writing systems. But there are many writing
                    systems, such as mathematical and musical ones, that are not tied to human
                    languages in this way. Many of the writing systems used for describing resources
                    belong to this latter group, meaning that (at least in principle) they can be
                    used with equal facility by speakers of any language.  
                (From §8.3.2, "Writing Systems".)
Some writing systems, such as XML and JSON, are
                closely identified with specific metamodels.


XML Information Set


The
                                        XML
                                        Infoset is a tree structure, where
                                    each node of the tree is defined to be an information
                                        item of a particular type. Each information item
                                    has a set of type-specific properties associated with it. At the
                                    root of the tree is a document item, which has exactly one
                                    element item as its child. An
                                            element item has a set of
                                            attribute items, and a list of child nodes.
                                        These child nodes may include other element items, or they
                                        may be character items. (See §8.2.1, "Kinds of Structures" below for more on characters.)
                                        Attribute
                                    items may contain character items, or they may contain typed
                                    data, such as name tokens, identifiers and references. Element
                                    identifiers and references (ID/IDREF) may be used to connect
                                    nodes, transforming a tree into a graph.  
                (From §8.2.2.2, "XML Information Set".)


zoo


A zoo is an organizing system for
                living animals that arranges them according to principles of biological taxonomy or
                common habitat. (Ed.)

















Index



NoteIn this ebook, the index is an organizing system that
            presents an alphabetical arrangement of terms to enable lookup and discovery of
            corresponding subject matter, selectable with hypertext links designed to lead the
            reader to a term's first use, its definition or a featured mention within the
            content.
When an index term's referent is located within the main flow of text, the number and
            title of its parent section are offered as the link anchor text. When an index term's
            referent is a section, then its number and title are offered as the link anchor
            text.
Due to variation in aesthetic factors such as font
            size and multi-column layout, and engineering factors such as interpretation and
            implementation of standards, it is impossible to predict whether or how ebook readers
            will implement the hypertext links that we intended to present to you. 
Our intent is for this Index to be a useful discovery interface.
        We experience inconsistent behaviour among readers we have tried.
        If your software interface frustrates our humble efforts, 
        we apologize for your discomfort.
        -- MM






A

A


GENERAL WORKS


in LCC: Figure 7.3





AAT: §5.4.2, "Thesauri"; §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"; §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"; Glossary

aboutness: §2.3, "Organizing Resources"; Glossary

absolute synonyms: §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy"; Glossary

abstract models: Glossary

abstraction


category: §6.4.1, "Category Abstraction and Granularity"

digital description: §2.3.1.2, "Organizing with Descriptions of Physical Resources"

four-step hierarchy: §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"

in design: §10.5.2, "Architectural Thinking"

in resource description: §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description"

layer: §10.5.3, "Distinguishing Access to Resources from Resource Control"

level: §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources"; §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"; §6.3.6, "Similarity"; §6.4, "Category Design Issues and Implications"; §6.4.3, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"; §7.1.2, "Classification vs. Tagging"; §8.2.2.2, "XML Information Set"; §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction"; §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"; §10.3.5, "Relationship to Other Organizing Systems"

related structures: §8.2.1, "Kinds of Structures"



access policies: §2.4.3, "Access Policies"; §2.4.3, "Access Policies"; §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"

accessioning: §2.1, "Introduction"; Glossary

accompanying relationship: §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"

accuracy


quality criteria: §4.3.7, "Evaluating Resource Descriptions"

transformations: §9.3.2.4, "Accuracy of Transformations"



acquisition: Glossary

active resource identity: §3.3.4, "Identity and Active Resources"

active resources: Sidebar "If This, Then That"; Sidebar "Stop and Think: The Internet of Things"; Sidebar "Bar Code Shopping in A Virtual Supermarket"; Sidebar "Big Data Makes "Smart" Soccer Players"


Nest thermostat: Sidebar "Active Resources: The Nest Thermostat "Ecosystem""



activities: §2.1, "Introduction"


accessioning: §2.1, "Introduction"; Glossary; Glossary

acquisition: Glossary

appraisal and authentication: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"

capability and compatibility: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"

cataloging: §2.1, "Introduction"; Glossary

classifying: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

compliance: Glossary

curation: §2.5.3, "Curation"; Glossary

data capture, extraction, generation, insertion: Glossary

data cleaning: Glossary

designing resource-based interactions : §2.1, "Introduction"

digitization: §2.5.2.1, "Digitization and Preserving Resources"; Glossary

governance: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"; §2.5.4, "Governance"; Glossary

integrating: §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"; §5.8.3, "Integration and Interoperability"

interoperability: §5.8.3, "Integration and Interoperability"

maintaining: §2.1, "Introduction"; §2.5, "Maintaining Resources"; Glossary; Glossary


motivations: §2.5.1, "Motivations for Maintaining Resources"



organizing: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"; §2.1, "Introduction"; Glossary

preservation: §2.5.2, "Preservation"

preserving: Glossary

selecting: §2.1, "Introduction"; §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"; Glossary



activities facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

activity


browsing: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Browsing for Books"



ad hoc category: Glossary

administrative metadata: §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"

affordance: §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"; §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"; Glossary; Glossary

agency: §1.2.3.2, "The Concept of "Agent""; §3.2, "Four Distinctions about Resources"; §3.2.3, "Resource Agency"; Glossary

agent: §1.2.3.2, "The Concept of "Agent""; Glossary


computational: §3.2.3.2, "Active or Operant Resources"; §4.2.2.2, "Metadata"

human: §2.4.2.1, "Value Creation with Physical Resources"

robot: §2.4.2.1, "Value Creation with Physical Resources"



agents facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

aggregation: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""

aliasing: Sidebar "Aliasing: Bad for this Fish"

alphabetical ordering: §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle""; §3.4.2.3, "Names with Undesirable Associations"; §4.3.3.2, "Extrinsic Static Properties"; §5.3.2.2, "Transitivity"; §6.3.2, "Single Properties"; §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"; §8.2.1.5, "Trees"; §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"; §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"; §10.4.2, "Requirements about the Nature and Extent of Resource Description"; Glossary

Amazon.com: Sidebar "Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ..."; §4.3.6.4, "Computational and Automated Resource Description"

American Standard Code for Information Interchange (see ASCII)

analogy tests: Sidebar "Stop And Think: Organizing System Analogy Tests"

analysis: Glossary

analysis of relationships: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"

analytico-synthetic classification: §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"

anchor text: Sidebar "Perspectives on Hypertext Links"; Glossary

ANSI


Z39.2: §7.1.5.3, "Specifications vs. Standards"



Antikythera Mechanism: Sidebar "The Antikythera Mechanism"; Sidebar "The Antikythera Mechanism"

antonymy: §5.4.1.5, "Antonymy"; Glossary

APA: Glossary

API: §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""; §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"; §9.2.1, "User Requirements"; §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"; §10.5.4, "Standardization and Legacy Considerations"

application programming interface (see API)

appraisal: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"

architectural perspective: §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"; Glossary


analyzing relationships: §5.6, "The Architectural Perspective"

hypertext links: Sidebar "Perspectives on Hypertext Links"

three tier model: Sidebar "The Three Tiers of Organizing Systems"



architectural thinking: §10.5.2, "Architectural Thinking"

archivists: Sidebar "Archivists at Work"; Sidebar ""Shamu" the Killer Whale"

Aristotle: Dedication


classical categories: §6.3.3.3, "Necessary and Sufficient Properties"; Sidebar "The Classical View of Categories"



arity: §5.6.1, "Degree"; Glossary; Glossary

ARPA: Glossary

As We May Think: §2.5.3.2, "Individual Curation"; §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links"

ASCII: §3.2.2, "Resource Format"; §8.3.1, "Notations"; §8.3.1, "Notations"; §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"; §8.3.3, "Syntax"; Glossary

associated concepts facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

asymmetric relationships: Glossary

attribute: Glossary


assert or assign: Glossary

inherited value: §6.3.3.1, "Multi-Level or Hierarchical Categories"

value: Glossary

XML: Glossary



attribution: §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships"


relationship: §5.3.1.2, "Attribution"; Glossary



audience: §6.4.4, "Category Audience and Purpose"

audio fingerprinting: §4.4.3, "Describing Music"

Augmenting the Human Intellect: §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links"

authentication: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"

authenticity: §3.5.3, "Authenticity"; Sidebar "Do You Trust This?"

authority control: §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies"; Glossary




B

B


PHILOSOPHY. PSYCHOLOGY. RELIGION


in LCC: Figure 7.3





Bacon, Francis: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"

Barnes Collection: Sidebar "The Barnes Collection"

Barsalou, Lawrence: Dedication; §6.3.8, "Goal-Derived Categories"

basic category: §6.4.2, "Basic or Natural Categories"

Batten, W. E.: §8.2, "Structuring Descriptions"

Berners-Lee, Tim: Dedication; Sidebar "The Web as an Organizing System"; §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links"

BI: Sidebar "Library {and, or, vs.} Business Organizing Systems"; Glossary

bi-directional: Glossary

bi-directional links: Glossary

bias


classification: Sidebar "Classification Biases"



biased classification: §7.2.3, "Classification Is Biased"

bibliographic


classification: §7.3, "Bibliographic Classification"

control: §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies"

description: §4.2.2.1, "Bibliographic Descriptions"; §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources"; Glossary

relationships: §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"

resource identity: §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"

universe: §1.3.6, "How (or by Whom) Is It Organized?"



bibliography: Glossary

bibliometrics: §5.5.3.3, "Bibliometrics, Shepardizing, and Social Network Analysis"; Glossary


document frequency: §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models"; Glossary

tag cloud: Glossary

term frequency: Glossary

typicality: Glossary



big data: §2.2.3, "Selection of Digital and Web-based Resources"; §3.3.4, "Identity and Active Resources"; §10.5.2, "Architectural Thinking"; Glossary

binary link: Glossary

BISAC: §7.3.3, "The BISAC Classification"; §10.3.5, "Relationship to Other Organizing Systems"

BISG: §7.3.3, "The BISAC Classification"

blobs: §8.2.1.1, "Blobs"; Glossary

Boolean facets: §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets"; Glossary

Boolean search/retrieval: §9.4.1.1, "Boolean Retrieval"

born digital: Glossary

Botticelli, Sandro


The Birth of Venus: Figure 4.5



Brin, Sergei: Sidebar "What Is a Library?"

browsing: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Browsing for Books"; Sidebar "Browsing Merchandise Catalogs"

Buckland, Michael: Sidebar "What Is Information?"

Bush, Vannevar: Dedication; §2.5.3.2, "Individual Curation"; §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links"

business


interactions: §10.4.1, "Requirements for Interactions in Organizing Systems"

organizing systems: Sidebar "Library {and, or, vs.} Business Organizing Systems"



business applications


active resources: §3.2.3.2, "Active or Operant Resources"

audio fingerprinting: §4.4.3, "Describing Music"

authority and enforcement: §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"

computational agency: §2.4.2.1, "Value Creation with Physical Resources"

content management: §2.5.2.4, "Preserving Resource Types"

digitization: Sidebar "What Is a Library?"

Enterprise 2.0: Sidebar "Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ..."

identity and information components: §3.3.3, "Identity and Information Components"

Martha Stewart: §9.4.4.2, "Linked Data Retrieval and Resource Discovery"

online store: §3.2.3.2, "Active or Operant Resources"

PageRank: §9.4.3.1, "Popularity-Based Retrieval"

Pandora: §4.4.3, "Describing Music"

patient management: §4.3.7.2, "Evaluating the Use of Resource Descriptions"

resource management: §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""; §3.2.5.2, "Digital Description of a Primary Physical Resource"

self-service technology: §2.4.2.2, "Value Creation with Digital Resources"

Service Oriented Architecture (SOA): §3.2.3.2, "Active or Operant Resources"

smart things: §3.1.1.2, "Bibliographic Resources, Information Components, and "Smart
                        Things" as Resources"

video analytics: §4.4.4, "Describing Video"

Williams-Somoma: §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets"



Business Intelligence (see BI)

business logic: Sidebar "The Three Tiers of Organizing Systems"




C

C


AUXILLARY SCIENCES OF HISTORY (GENERAL)


in LCC: Figure 7.3





CAFE: Sidebar "CAFE Standards: Blurring the Lines Between Categorization Perspectives"; Glossary

Cailliau, Robert: §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links"

call numbers: §3.4.3.5, "Distinguish Identifying and Resolving"; §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"

capability: §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"; Glossary


and compatibility: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"



card catalog cabinet: Sidebar "Card Catalog Cabinet"

cardinality: §5.6.2, "Cardinality"; §5.6.2, "Cardinality"; Glossary

Carusi, Lucio


photo of statue: Figure 4.5



cataloging: §2.1, "Introduction"; Glossary


bibliographic domain: §1.2, "The "Organizing System" Concept"; §2.3, "Organizing Resources"; §5.8.2, "Bibliographic Organizing Systems"

RDA: §5.8.2.2, "Resource Description and Access (RDA)"; §5.8.2.2, "Resource Description and Access (RDA)"; §8.2.3.1, "Specifying Vocabularies and Schemas"

rules: §6.1, "Introduction"



categories: §6.1, "Introduction"; Glossary


ad hoc: Glossary

basic: §6.4.2, "Basic or Natural Categories"

classical: §6.3.3.3, "Necessary and Sufficient Properties"; Sidebar "The Classical View of Categories"; Glossary

creating: §6.3, "Principles for Creating Categories"

cultural: §6.2.1, "Cultural Categories"; Glossary

design choices: §6.4, "Category Design Issues and Implications"

family resemblance: §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance"

implementing: §6.5, "Implementing Categories"

individual: §6.2.2, "Individual Categories"

institutional: §6.2.3, "Institutional Categories"

monothetic: Glossary

motivation: §6.2, "The What and Why of Categories"

natural: §6.4.2, "Basic or Natural Categories"

necessary and sufficient properties: Sidebar "The Classical View of Categories"

polythetic: Glossary



categorization: Sidebar "CAFE Standards: Blurring the Lines Between Categorization Perspectives"


category rules: §6.1, "Introduction"

challenge: Sidebar "What Is a Library?"

color: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Color"

contexts: §6.2, "The What and Why of Categories"

continuum: §6.2.4, "A "Categorization Continuum""; §10.4.3, "Requirements about Intentional Arrangement"

discussion: Chapter 7, "Classification: Assigning Resources to Categories"

games: Sidebar "What Is a Game?"

goal-derived: Sidebar "Things Used at the Gym"

individual: §6.2.2, "Individual Categories"; Glossary

limits: §6.3.4, "The Limits of Property-Based Categorization"

Pyramid: §6.1, "Introduction"

versus classification: §7.1.1, "Classification vs. Categorization"



CBS: §6.1, "Introduction"

Centers for Disease Control: §10.3.2, "Number and Nature of Users"

centrality: Glossary

CERN: Sidebar "The Web as an Organizing System"; Glossary

Chandler, Alfred: §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"

character: Glossary


encoding: Glossary

set: §3.2.2, "Resource Format"; §8.3.1, "Notations"; Glossary

The Artist Formerly Known as Prince: Sidebar "Names {and, or, vs} Identifiers"



character encoding: §8.3.1, "Notations"; Glossary

Chomsky, Noam: §5.7.2, "Syntax and Grammar"

chronological ordering: §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle""; §2.2.1, "Selecting {and, or, vs.} Organizing"; §5.3.2.2, "Transitivity"; §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"; §10.4.2, "Requirements about the Nature and Extent of Resource Description"


defined: Glossary



chronological relationship: §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"

circulation: Sidebar "What Is a Library?"; Glossary

citation-based interactions: §9.4.3.2, "Citation-Based Retrieval"

class inclusion: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

classes: §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories"; Glossary

classical categories: §6.3.3.3, "Necessary and Sufficient Properties"; Glossary

classification: Sidebar "Classifying Hawaiian "Boardshorts""; §7.1.1, "Classification vs. Categorization"; Sidebar "Classification In A Novel User Interface"; Glossary


analytico-synthetic: §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"

and standardization: §7.1.5, "Classification and Standardization"

bias: Sidebar "Classification Biases"

biased: §7.2.3, "Classification Is Biased"

bibliographic: §7.3, "Bibliographic Classification"


BISAC: §7.3.3, "The BISAC Classification"

DDC: §7.3.1, "The Dewey Decimal Classification"

LCC: §7.3.2, "The Library of Congress Classification"



computational: §7.6, "Computational Classification"

discussion: Chapter 7, "Classification: Assigning Resources to Categories"

enumerative: §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"; Glossary

extensibility: Glossary

faceted: §7.4, "Faceted Classification"; Glossary

flexibility of: §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"; Glossary

hierarchical: §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"; Glossary

hospitality of: §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"; Glossary

implicit: §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"; Glossary

institutional semantics: §7.1.5.2, "Institutional Semantics"

institutional taxonomies: §7.1.5.1, "Institutional Taxonomies"

integrity of: Glossary

introduction: §7.1, "Introduction"

is purposeful: §7.2.1, "Classification Is Purposeful"

literary warrant: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"; Glossary

mandated: §7.1.5.4, "Mandated Classifications"

naming or numbering schemes: §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"

principled: §7.2.2, "Classification Is Principled"

reference models: §7.2.1.1, "Classifications Are Reference Models"

resource description: §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"

schemes: §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"

social: Glossary

specifications vs standards: §7.1.5.3, "Specifications vs. Standards"

supports interaction: §7.2.1.2, "Classifications Support Interactions"

tagging: Glossary

tagsonomy: Glossary

taskonomy: §7.5, "Classification by Activity Structure"; Glossary

taxonomic: Glossary

understanding: §7.2, "Understanding Classification"

versus categorization: §7.1.1, "Classification vs. Categorization"

versus physical arrangement: §7.1.3, "Classification vs. Physical Arrangement"

versus tagging: §7.1.2, "Classification vs. Tagging"

Yahoo!: Sidebar "Classifying the Web: Yahoo! in 1996"



classification scheme: Glossary

classifications: §7.1, "Introduction"; Glossary

classifying: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary


organizing systems: §1.3.1.1, "Conventional Ways to Classify Organizing Systems"



clustering: §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory"; Glossary


classification: §9.4.2.4, "Clustering / Classification"



Coase, Ronald: Dedication; §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"

cognates: Glossary

collection: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""; §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""; Glossary


resources: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"

scope and scale: §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"

size and dynamics: §2.2, "Selecting Resources"



collection development: §2.1, "Introduction"; Glossary

collocation: §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle""; §2.3, "Organizing Resources"

colon classification: §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

colorless green ideas: §5.7.2, "Syntax and Grammar"

compliance: §2.4.3, "Access Policies"; Glossary; Glossary

component-object inclusion: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

compounding: Glossary

computational


agents: §1.2, "The "Organizing System" Concept"; §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource""; §1.2.3, "The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement""; §1.2.3.2, "The Concept of "Agent""; §2.4.2.1, "Value Creation with Physical Resources"; §2.4.2.1, "Value Creation with Physical Resources"; §3.2.3.2, "Active or Operant Resources"; §3.5.1.2, "Persistent Resources"; §4.2.2.2, "Metadata"; §7.1.5.1, "Institutional Taxonomies"; §11.3, "Smarter Farming in Japan"

classification: §7.6, "Computational Classification"; §9.4.2.4, "Clustering / Classification"

curation: §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"

processes: §1.2.3.2, "The Concept of "Agent""



concept


affordance: §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"

agent: §1.2.3.2, "The Concept of "Agent""

associative indexing: §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links"

attribution: §5.3.1.2, "Attribution"

capability: §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"

collection: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""

curation: §2.1, "Introduction"; §2.5.3, "Curation"

directionality of a relationship: §5.6.1, "Degree"

follow-only structures: §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links"

governance: §2.5.4.1, "Governance in Business Organizing Systems"

identity: §3.3.3, "Identity and Information Components"

in data modeling: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"

index: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""

information: Sidebar "What Is Information?"

intentional arrangement: §1.2.3, "The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement""

interaction: §2.4.2, "Interaction and Value Creation"

interactions: §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""

linguistic relativity: Sidebar "Linguistic Relativity"

memory institution: §2.5.1, "Motivations for Maintaining Resources"

metadata: §4.2.2.2, "Metadata"

organizing principle: §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle""

organizing system: §1.2, "The "Organizing System" Concept"

possession: §5.3.1.3, "Possession"

read-only structures: §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links"

relationship: §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"

resource: §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource""

resource description: §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources"

value creation: §2.4.2, "Interaction and Value Creation"



conditional execution: Sidebar "If This, Then That"

Condorcet, Nicolas de: Dedication; §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"; §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

constraints: §8.2.1.2, "Sets"; Sidebar "Stop and Think: Constraint vs flexibility"; Sidebar "Regulatory Constraints: Right to be Forgotten"; Glossary


business rules: §10.5.1, "Choosing Scope- and Scale-Appropriate Technology"

contextual: §1.3, "Design Decisions in Organizing Systems"

data types and values: §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources"; §8.2.1.3, "Lists"; §8.2.1.4, "Dictionaries"

domain: §2.2, "Selecting Resources"

environment: §8.4, "Worlds of Description"; §9.5, "Evaluating Interactions"; §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"; §10.3.4, "Physical or Technological Environment"; §10.3.4, "Physical or Technological Environment"

functional: §1.3.1.2, "A Multifaceted or Multidimensional View"

funding: §10.4.1, "Requirements for Interactions in Organizing Systems"

graphs and trees: §8.2.1.5, "Trees"; §8.2.1.6, "Graphs"; §8.2.1.6, "Graphs"; §8.2.2.4, "Choosing Your Constraints"

interaction: §9.2, "Determining Interactions"; §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"; §9.3.2.4, "Accuracy of Transformations"; §9.4, "Implementing Interactions"; §9.5, "Evaluating Interactions"

models: §8.2.3, "Modeling within Constraints"; §8.2.3, "Modeling within Constraints"

natural: §3.2.1, "Resource Domain"; §3.3.1, "Identity and Physical Resources"

organizational: §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"

physical: §2.3.1, "Organizing Physical Resources"; §2.3.1.2, "Organizing with Descriptions of Physical Resources"; §2.3.2, "Organizing Digital Resources"; §3.2.2, "Resource Format"; §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"; §7.3, "Bibliographic Classification"; §10.5.2, "Architectural Thinking"

schema: §5.5.2, "Structural Relationships within a Resource"; §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory"

Semantic Web: §8.4.3, "The Semantic Web World"

socio-political: §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"; §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"

temporal: §8.4.2, "The Web World"

unintentional: §4.3.7.2, "Evaluating the Use of Resource Descriptions"

writing system: §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"



Content Audit: Sidebar "The Activities of Information Architecture"

contextual properties: §4.3.3.4, "Extrinsic Dynamic Properties"; Glossary

controlled vocabulary: §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies"; §4.3.4.4, "Vocabulary Control as Dimensionality Reduction"; §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"; Glossary

copyright


digitization implications: §2.4.2.2, "Value Creation with Digital Resources"

fair use doctrine: §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""; §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""



core competency principle: §2.2.2, "Selection Principles"

Corporate Average Fuel Economy (see CAFE)

corpus: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""

costs


accounting: §1.2.3.2, "The Concept of "Agent""; §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""; §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"; §2.3.2, "Organizing Digital Resources"; §6.4.3, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"

appraisal: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"

data conversion: §10.5.4, "Standardization and Legacy Considerations"

digitization: §3.5.3, "Authenticity"

efficiency: §8.2, "Structuring Descriptions"

human factors: §1.3.6, "How (or by Whom) Is It Organized?"; §2.3, "Organizing Resources"; §4.2.2.4, "Resource Description Framework (RDF)"; §11.4, "Single-Source Textbook Publishing"

implementation tradeoffs: §10.5.1, "Choosing Scope- and Scale-Appropriate Technology"

imprecision: §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"

integration: §9.3.2.1, "Transforming Resources from Multiple or Legacy Organizing Systems"

interaction: §2.3.3, "Organizing with Multiple Resource Properties"; §2.4.2.2, "Value Creation with Digital Resources"

legal: §2.5.1, "Motivations for Maintaining Resources"

Moore's Law: Foreword to the First Edition

Moore's law: §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"

product: §4.3.1, "Determining the Scope and Focus"

shared: Sidebar "The Hathi Trust Digital Library"

standardization: §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"

storage: §10.6.2, "Maintaining an Organizing System: Properties, Principles and Technology
                Perspective"

transaction: §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"; §6.2.3, "Institutional Categories"; §7.1.5.2, "Institutional Semantics"

versioning: §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"



counter-terrorism: §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"

coverage: §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics"; Glossary

creating


resource descriptions: §4.3.6, "Creating Resource Descriptions"

resources: Sidebar "What about "Creating" Resources?"



CRM: Sidebar "Library {and, or, vs.} Business Organizing Systems"; §10.3.5, "Relationship to Other Organizing Systems"; Glossary

crosswalk: §9.3.2.1, "Transforming Resources from Multiple or Legacy Organizing Systems"; Glossary

cultural categories: §6.2.1, "Cultural Categories"; Glossary

cultural context


materiality: Glossary



cultural properties: Glossary

curation: §2.5.3, "Curation"; Glossary


computational: §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"

individual: §2.5.3.2, "Individual Curation"

institutional: §2.5.3.1, "Institutional Curation"

social and web: §2.5.3.3, "Social and Web Curation"



current awareness service: §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"

Customer Relationship Management (see CRM)

Cutter, Charles: Dedication

Cyc: §5.3.3, "Ontologies"




D

D


WORLD HISTORY (EXCEPT AMERICAN HISTORY)


in LCC: Figure 7.3





dalmatian: Sidebar "Intrinsic Static Properties Define a Dalmatian"

Dalmatian


intrinsic static properties: Sidebar "Intrinsic Static Properties Define a Dalmatian"



dark data: Sidebar "The Long Tail of Dark Data"

Darwin, Charles: §1.2.3, "The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement""

data


capture, extraction, generation, insertion, selection: Glossary

precision: §9.5.2.2, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"; Glossary

rot: Glossary

schema: §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories"; Glossary



Data and Reality: §5.1, "Introduction"

data storage


architectural tier: Sidebar "The Three Tiers of Organizing Systems"



data structures


abstract models: Glossary

blob: Glossary

classes: §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories"

dictionary: §8.2.1.4, "Dictionaries"; Glossary

graph: §8.2.1.6, "Graphs"; Glossary


reachability: Glossary



list: §8.2.1.3, "Lists"; Glossary

logical hierarchy: §2.3.3, "Organizing with Multiple Resource Properties"; Glossary

map: Glossary

node: Glossary

object: Glossary

self-organizing system: §1.2.3, "The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement""; Glossary

set: Glossary

sets: §8.2.1.2, "Sets"

tree: Glossary



dataset: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""

DBpedia: §8.4.3, "The Semantic Web World"

DC: §8.3.3, "Syntax"; Glossary

DCMI: §8.3.3, "Syntax"

DDC: §7.1.5.1, "Institutional Taxonomies"; §7.1.5.3, "Specifications vs. Standards"; §7.3.1, "The Dewey Decimal Classification"; §10.3.5, "Relationship to Other Organizing Systems"

decision tree: §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories"; Sidebar "Everyday Decision Trees"; Glossary

decoding: Sidebar "Text Processing"

definition


extensional: Glossary



degree: §5.6.1, "Degree"; Glossary


architectural perspective: §5.6.1, "Degree"

of organizing systems: §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"



degrees of separation: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Kevin Bacon Numbers"

delivery service: §2.4.2.1, "Value Creation with Physical Resources"

Deoxyribonucleic Acid (see DNA)

derivational morphology: §5.4.3, "Relationships among Word Forms"; §5.4.3.1, "Derivational Morphology"; Glossary

derivative relationships: §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"

describing


images: §4.4.2, "Describing Images"

museum and artistic resources: §4.4.1, "Describing Museum and Artistic Resources"

music: §4.4.3, "Describing Music"

non-text resources: §4.4, "Describing Non-text Resources"

relationships: §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"

resource context: §4.4.5, "Describing Resource Context"

resource description: §4.2.1, "Naming {and, or, vs.} Describing"

video: §4.4.4, "Describing Video"



description


bibliographic: §4.2.2.1, "Bibliographic Descriptions"

inclusive term: §4.2.2, ""Description" as an Inclusive Term"

kinship relationship: §4.2.1, "Naming {and, or, vs.} Describing"

vocabulary: §4.3.4, "Designing the Description Vocabulary"



descriptive relationship: §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"

design


space: §1.3.1, "Organizing Systems in a "Design Space""



design decisions: §1.3, "Design Decisions in Organizing Systems"

designed resource access policies: §2.4.3, "Access Policies"

designing


description vocabulary: §4.3.4, "Designing the Description Vocabulary"

faceted classification system: §7.4.4, "Designing a Faceted Classification System"

resource description


form and implementation: §4.3.5, "Designing the Description Form"



resource-based interactions: §2.1, "Introduction"; §2.1, "Introduction"; §2.4, "Designing Resource-based Interactions"



determining


interactions: §9.2, "Determining Interactions"


access policies: §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"

user requirements: §9.2.1, "User Requirements"





Dewey, Melvil: §7.3.1, "The Dewey Decimal Classification"

DFR: §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models"; Glossary

Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (see DSM)

dictionary: §8.2.1.4, "Dictionaries"; §8.2.1.4, "Dictionaries"; Glossary

Die Ringes des Saturn: §8.3, "Writing Descriptions"

digital library: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"; §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle""; §2.4.2.1, "Value Creation with Physical Resources"; §3.2.5.3, "Digital Description of a Primary Digital Resource"

digital preservation: §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"


(see also curation)



digital resources


organizing: §2.3.2, "Organizing Digital Resources"

selecting: §2.2.3, "Selection of Digital and Web-based Resources"



Digital Rights Management (see DRM)

digital signatures: §3.5.3, "Authenticity"

digital things: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"

digitization: §2.2.3, "Selection of Digital and Web-based Resources"; Glossary

dimensionality reduction: §4.3.4.4, "Vocabulary Control as Dimensionality Reduction"; §4.3.4.4, "Vocabulary Control as Dimensionality Reduction"; Glossary

directionality: §5.6.3, "Directionality"; §5.6.3, "Directionality"; Glossary

discipline: Sidebar "The Discipline of Organizing"; Glossary


information architecture: §2.3.2.2, ""Information Architecture" and Organizing Systems"

of organizing: Sidebar "The Discipline of Organizing"



discovery: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"

Divergence From Randomness (see DFR)

DNA: Glossary

DNS: §2.3.2.1, "Organizing Web-based Resources"; §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies"

DocBook: Sidebar "DocBook Schema"

document: Sidebar "The Document Type Spectrum"

document frequency (df): §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models"; Glossary

Document Inventory: Sidebar "The Activities of Information Architecture"

document processing: §8.4.1, "The Document Processing World"

Document Type Spectrum: §3.2.1, "Resource Domain"; §3.3.3, "Identity and Information Components"; §5.5.2, "Structural Relationships within a Resource"; §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories"

domain: §3.2, "Four Distinctions about Resources"; §3.2.1, "Resource Domain"; §3.2.1, "Resource Domain"; Sidebar "Stop and Think: Defining Quality "; Glossary

Dougherty, Dale: Sidebar "Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ..."

driving in Samoa: Sidebar "Driving in Samoa"

DRM: §4.3.3, "Identifying Properties"; Glossary

DSM: §7.1.5.1, "Institutional Taxonomies"; Glossary

DTD: §4.2.2.2, "Metadata"

Dublin Core (see DC)

Duguid, Paul: §2.5.2.3, "Preserving Resource Instances"

Dumais, Susan: Dedication; §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"; §9.4.2.2, "Synonym Expansion with Latent Semantic Indexing"




E

E


HISTORY: AMERICA


in LCC: Figure 7.3





Earth: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"

eBay: Sidebar "Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ..."

ECM: Sidebar "Library {and, or, vs.} Business Organizing Systems"; Glossary

edge: Glossary

EDM: Glossary

effectivity: §3.5.2, "Effectivity"; §3.5.2, "Effectivity"; Glossary


conceptual relationships: §3.5.4, "Provenance"

locative: §3.5.2, "Effectivity"

role-based: §3.5.2, "Effectivity"

temporal: §3.5.2, "Effectivity"; §4.3.2.4, "Resource Description to Support Maintenance"; §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"



element item: §8.2.2.2, "XML Information Set"; Glossary

encoding scheme: §8.2.3.2, "Controlling Values"; Glossary

encryption: §3.5.3, "Authenticity"

energy facet: §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

Engelbart, Douglas: Dedication


Augmenting the Human Intellect: §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links"



Enterprise 2.0: Sidebar "Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ..."

Enterprise Content Management (see ECM)

Enterprise Data Management (see EDM)

Enterprise Resource Planning (see ERP)

enumeration: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"

enumerative classification: §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"; Glossary

enumerative facets: §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets"; Glossary

environment: §10.3.4, "Physical or Technological Environment"

equivalence: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"; §5.3.2.3, "Equivalence"

equivalence class: Glossary; Glossary

equivalence relationship: §5.3.2.3, "Equivalence"; §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"; Glossary

ERP: Sidebar "Library {and, or, vs.} Business Organizing Systems"; §10.3.5, "Relationship to Other Organizing Systems"; Glossary

ethnography: §7.5, "Classification by Activity Structure"

ETL: Glossary

European Organization for Nuclear Research (see CERN)

evaluating: §4.3.7, "Evaluating Resource Descriptions"; §9.5, "Evaluating Interactions"

EXIF: §4.4.1, "Describing Museum and Artistic Resources"

expression: §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"; Glossary

extensibility of classification: Glossary

extension: Glossary

extensional definition: Glossary

Extract, Transform, and Load (see ETL)




F

F


HISTORY: AMERICA


in LCC: Figure 7.3





Facebook: Sidebar "Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ..."; §2.3.2.1, "Organizing Web-based Resources"; §4.4.2, "Describing Images"

faceted classification: §7.4, "Faceted Classification"; §7.4, "Faceted Classification"; §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"; Glossary


activities facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

agents facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

analytico-synthetic facets: §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"

associated concepts facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

Boolean facets: §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets"; Glossary

 colon classification: §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

designing a system: §7.4.4, "Designing a Faceted Classification System"

energy facet: §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

enumerative facets: §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets"; Glossary

hierarchical facets: §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets"; Glossary

materials facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

matter facet: §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

object facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

organizing with: §2.3.3, "Organizing with Multiple Resource Properties"

personality facet: §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

physical attributes facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

space facet: §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

spectrum facets: §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets"; Glossary

styles and periods facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

taxonomic facets: Glossary

time facet: §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"



factor analysis (see dimensionality reduction)

fair use doctrine: §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""; §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""

family resemblance: §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance"; §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance"; Sidebar "Family Resemblance and Typicality"; Glossary

family tree: Sidebar "Simpson Family Trees"

fantasy sports: §3.2.4, "Resource Focus"

feature (see property)

feature extraction (see dimensionality reduction)

feature traceability: §10.4, "Identifying Requirements for an Organizing System"

feature-activity inclusion: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

Filo, David: §1.3.6, "How (or by Whom) Is It Organized?"

finding: §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""; §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"; §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"; §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"

flexibility: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Constraint vs flexibility"

flexibility of classification: §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"; Glossary

Flickr: §4.4.2, "Describing Images"

FOAF: §5.8.2.3, "RDA and the Semantic Web"; Glossary

focus: §3.2, "Four Distinctions about Resources"; Glossary


determining: §3.2.4, "Resource Focus"

resource: §3.2.4, "Resource Focus"

resource description: §4.3.1, "Determining the Scope and Focus"



folksonomy: §7.1.2, "Classification vs. Tagging"

fonds: §1.3.2, "What Is Being Organized?"; Glossary

font: §8.3.1, "Notations"; Glossary

form: §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"; Glossary

format: §3.2, "Four Distinctions about Resources"; Glossary


resource: §3.2.2, "Resource Format"

versus form: §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"



framework: Sidebar "The Discipline of Organizing"; §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"; Glossary

FRBR: §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"; §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"; §4.3.7.2, "Evaluating the Use of Resource Descriptions"; §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"; Glossary


navigation: §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"

purposes: §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"



Friend of a Friend (see FOAF)

Functional Requirements for Bibliographic Records (see FRBR)

Furnas, George: §3.4.2.1, "The Vocabulary Problem"




G

G


GEOGRAPHY. ANTHROPOLOGY. RECREATION


in LCC: Figure 7.3





garden: Sidebar "Organized in Rows"

gerrymandering: Sidebar "Bias in Institutional Categorization:  Illinois 17th Congressional District"

Getty Trust


AAT: §5.4.2, "Thesauri"; §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"



Gibson, J. J.: Dedication; §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"

Global Positioning System (see GPS)

Globally Unique Identifier (see GUID)

glyph: §8.3.1, "Notations"; Glossary

goal-derived categories: §6.3.8, "Goal-Derived Categories"

Google


Art Project: §3.2.2, "Resource Format"

book digitization project: §4.3.7.1, "Evaluating the Creation of Resource Descriptions"; §7.3.3, "The BISAC Classification"

PageRank: §9.4.3.1, "Popularity-Based Retrieval"

personalized ad placement: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"



Google Glass: §3.2.5.2, "Digital Description of a Primary Physical Resource"

governance: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"; §2.5.4, "Governance"; Sidebar "Stop and Think: Business Data Governance"; Glossary


corporate: §2.5.4, "Governance"

in business organizing systems: §2.5.4.1, "Governance in Business Organizing Systems"

in scientific organizing systems: §2.5.4.2, "Governance in Scientific Organizing Systems"



GPS: §2.2.3, "Selection of Digital and Web-based Resources"; §3.1.1.2, "Bibliographic Resources, Information Components, and "Smart
                        Things" as Resources"; §4.4.5, "Describing Resource Context"; §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction"; §11.3, "Smarter Farming in Japan"; Glossary

gradience: §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance"

grammar: Glossary; Glossary

granularity: §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction"; Glossary


category: §6.4.1, "Category Abstraction and Granularity"

resource description: §4.3.1.1, "Describing Instances or Describing Collections"



graphs: §8.2.1.6, "Graphs"; §8.2.1.6, "Graphs"; Glossary

GUID: Glossary; Glossary

Guidelines for Electronic Text Encoding and Interchange: Sidebar "Mixed Content"

Guugu Yimithirr: §6.2.1, "Cultural Categories"




H

H


SOCIAL SCIENCE


in LCC: Figure 7.3





heatmap: Sidebar "Retail store activity tracking"

hierarchical


facets: Glossary



hierarchical classification: §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"; Glossary

hierarchical facets: §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets"

Holbein carpet: Sidebar "Why are Ottoman Carpets Named After a German Painter?"

homographs: §3.4.2.2, "Homonymy, Polysemy, and False Cognates"; Glossary

homonyms: Glossary

hospitality of classification: §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"; Glossary

HR: §2.4.3, "Access Policies"; Glossary

HTML: §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links"

HTTP: §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource""; §8.4.2, "The Web World"; Glossary


resource: §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource""



Human Resources (see HR)

husband


traditional definition: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"



hypernym: §5.4.1.1, "Hyponymy and Hyperonymy"; Glossary


semantic relationship: §5.4.2, "Thesauri"



hypertext: Glossary


relationship: Glossary



hypertext links: Glossary; Glossary


among resources: §5.5.3, "Structural Relationships between Resources"

anchor text: Sidebar "Perspectives on Hypertext Links"; Glossary

bi-directional: Glossary

binary link: Glossary

cardinality: §5.6.1, "Degree"

degree: §5.6.1, "Degree"

directionality: §5.6.1, "Degree"; §5.6.3, "Directionality"; Glossary

implementation syntax: §5.7.3, "Requirements for Implementation Syntax"

link base: Glossary

link type: Sidebar "Perspectives on Hypertext Links"; Glossary

n-ary links: Glossary

one-way link: Glossary

perspectives: Sidebar "Perspectives on Hypertext Links"

qualified names: Glossary

syntax and grammar: §5.7.2, "Syntax and Grammar"

transclusion: Sidebar "Transclusion"; Glossary



Hypertext Transfer Protocol (see HTTP)

hyponym: §5.4.1.1, "Hyponymy and Hyperonymy"; §5.4.2, "Thesauri"; Glossary

hyponymy and hypernymy: §5.4.1.1, "Hyponymy and Hyperonymy"




I

IAU: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"; Glossary

IBM: Glossary

identifier: §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"; §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"; Glossary


choosing good identifiers: §3.4.3, "Choosing Good Names and Identifiers"

GUID: Glossary

persistence: §3.5.1, "Persistence"



identifying: §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"


interaction: §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""

properties


for resource description: §4.3.3, "Identifying Properties"



resource description


support interactions: §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"



resources


for interaction: §9.3.1, "Identifying and Describing Resources for Interactions"





identity: §1.3.2, "What Is Being Organized?"; §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"; Glossary


active resource: §3.3.4, "Identity and Active Resources"

authenticity: §3.5.3, "Authenticity"

bibliographic resource: §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"

establishing: §3.5.3, "Authenticity"

name authority: §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"

naming resources: §3.4, "Naming Resources"; §3.4.2.4, "Names that Assume Impermanent Attributes"

obfuscated by services: §10.5.3, "Distinguishing Access to Resources from Resource Control"

Panizzi: §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"

persistence: §3.5.1, "Persistence"

physical resource: §3.3.1, "Identity and Physical Resources"

resource: §3.1, "Introduction"; §3.1.1.2, "Bibliographic Resources, Information Components, and "Smart
                        Things" as Resources"; §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"; §3.2.2, "Resource Format"; §3.3, "Resource Identity"; §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"



ideograph


character: Glossary



IEEE: Glossary

IETF: Glossary

IFLA: §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"

ifttt: Sidebar "If This, Then That"

images


describing: §4.4.2, "Describing Images"



implementation: Sidebar "Separation Of Organizing Principle From Implementation"; §5.7.1, "Choice of Implementation"

implementation perspective: §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"; Glossary


analyzing relationships: §5.7, "The Implementation Perspective "

hypertext links: Sidebar "Perspectives on Hypertext Links"; §5.7, "The Implementation Perspective "

syntax: §5.7.2, "Syntax and Grammar"



implementing


categories: §6.5, "Implementing Categories"

classical categories: §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories"

interactions: §9.4, "Implementing Interactions"

non-classical categories: §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory"



implicit classification: §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"; Glossary

imposed policies: §2.4.3, "Access Policies"; Glossary

inclusion


class inclusion: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

component-object: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

feature-activity: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

locative: Glossary

member-collection: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

meronymic: Glossary

part-whole: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

phase-activity: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

place-area: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

portion-mass: Glossary

relationship: §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships"; Glossary

semantic relationship type: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"

stuff-object: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

temporal: Glossary

topological: Glossary



index: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""; Glossary

Index: Index

individual


categories: §6.2.2, "Individual Categories"

curation: §2.5.3.2, "Individual Curation"



individual categorization: §6.2.2, "Individual Categories"; Glossary

infinite loop (see loop, infinite)

inflectional morphology: §5.4.3.2, "Inflectional Morphology"; §5.4.3.2, "Inflectional Morphology"; Glossary

information


as thing: Sidebar "What Is Information?"

identity: §3.3.3, "Identity and Information Components"



information architecture


classification and organizing: §7.2.1.2, "Classifications Support Interactions"

model-based foundations: §2.3.2.2, ""Information Architecture" and Organizing Systems"



Information Inventory: Sidebar "The Activities of Information Architecture"

information retrieval


based on combining resources


combining resources: §9.4.4, "Interactions Based on Combining Resources"



based on computed properties: §9.4.3, "Interactions Based on Derived Properties"

based on linked data: §9.4.4.2, "Linked Data Retrieval and Resource Discovery"

based on mash-ups: §9.4.4.1, "Mash-Ups"

Boolean search: §9.4.1.1, "Boolean Retrieval"

by collection properties: §9.4.2, "Interactions Based on Collection Properties"

citation-based: §9.4.3.2, "Citation-Based Retrieval"

clustering/classification: §9.4.2.4, "Clustering / Classification"

latent semantic indexing: §9.4.2.2, "Synonym Expansion with Latent Semantic Indexing"

popularity-based: §9.4.3.1, "Popularity-Based Retrieval"

structure-based retrieval: §9.4.2.3, "Structure-Based Retrieval"

tag/annotate: §9.4.1.2, "Tag / Annotate"

translation-based: §9.4.3.3, "Translation"

vector space retrieval: §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models"



information_components: §3.3.3, "Identity and Information Components"

inherited: §6.3.3.1, "Multi-Level or Hierarchical Categories"

Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (see IEEE)

institutional


categories: §6.2.3, "Institutional Categories"

curation: §2.5.3.1, "Institutional Curation"

governance: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"; Glossary

semantics: §7.1.5.2, "Institutional Semantics"; Glossary

taxonomies: §7.1.5.1, "Institutional Taxonomies"; Glossary

taxonomy: §7.1.5.1, "Institutional Taxonomies"



integration: §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"; §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"; §5.8.3, "Integration and Interoperability"

integrity of classification: Glossary

intension: §6.3.2, "Single Properties"; Glossary

intensional definition: §6.3.2, "Single Properties"; Glossary

intentional arrangement: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"; §1.2.3, "The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement""; §1.2.3, "The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement""; Sidebar "Not an Intentional Arrangement"; Glossary


requirements: §10.4.3, "Requirements about Intentional Arrangement"



intentional categories: §7.1.1, "Classification vs. Categorization"

interactions: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"; §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""; §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""; §2.4.2, "Interaction and Value Creation"; Sidebar "Most Common Museum Interaction"; Glossary


agency: §3.2.3, "Resource Agency"

agent: §1.2.3.2, "The Concept of "Agent""

analysis: Glossary


Shepardizing: Glossary



and user interface design: §10.4.1, "Requirements for Interactions in Organizing Systems"

based on collection properties


structure-based retrieval: §9.4.2.3, "Structure-Based Retrieval"



based on combining resources: §9.4.4, "Interactions Based on Combining Resources"

based on computed properties: §9.4.3, "Interactions Based on Derived Properties"


translation: §9.4.3.3, "Translation"



based on linked data: §9.4.4.2, "Linked Data Retrieval and Resource Discovery"

based on mash-ups: §9.4.4.1, "Mash-Ups"

based on properties


individual resources: §9.4.1, "Interactions Based on Instance Properties"



Boolean search/retrieval: §9.4.1.1, "Boolean Retrieval"

by collection properties: §9.4.2, "Interactions Based on Collection Properties"

capability: Glossary

circulation: Sidebar "What Is a Library?"


defines a library: Sidebar "What Is a Library?"



citation-based: §9.4.3.2, "Citation-Based Retrieval"

classifications support: §7.2.1.2, "Classifications Support Interactions"

clustering/classification: §9.4.2.4, "Clustering / Classification"

determining: §9.2, "Determining Interactions"


access policies: §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"

user requirements: §9.2.1, "User Requirements"



discussion: Chapter 9, "Interactions with Resources"

evaluating: §9.5, "Evaluating Interactions"

implementing: §9.4, "Implementing Interactions"

information architecture


conceptual modeling: §2.3.2.2, ""Information Architecture" and Organizing Systems"



introduction: §9.1, "Introduction"

latent semantic indexing: §9.4.2.2, "Synonym Expansion with Latent Semantic Indexing"

organizing resources for: §9.3, "Reorganizing Resources for Interactions"

popularity-based: §9.4.3.1, "Popularity-Based Retrieval"

querying: Glossary

recall and precision tradeoff: §9.5.2.2, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"

relevance: §9.5.2, "Effectiveness"

reporting: Glossary

resource-based


designing: §2.1, "Introduction"; §2.4, "Designing Resource-based Interactions"



tag/annotate: §9.4.1.2, "Tag / Annotate"

traceability: §10.4, "Identifying Requirements for an Organizing System"

vector space retrieval: §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models"

viewing: Glossary

visiting: Glossary

visualization: Glossary



International Astronomical Union (see IAU)

International Business Machines (see IBM)

International Organization for Standardization (see ISO)

International Standard Book Number (see ISBN)

Internet Archive: Sidebar "The Internet Archive and the "Wayback Machine""

Internet Engineering Task Force (see IETF)

Internet of Things: §3.3.4, "Identity and Active Resources"

interoperability: §5.8.3, "Integration and Interoperability"

intrinsic meaning or interpretation: §4.4.1, "Describing Museum and Artistic Resources"; Glossary

inverse document frequency (idf): §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models"; Glossary

inverse relationship: §5.3.2.4, "Inverse"; §5.3.2.4, "Inverse"; Glossary

ISBN: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"; §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"; §3.4.3.1, "Make Names Informative"; §8.2.3.2, "Controlling Values"; §10.4.2, "Requirements about the Nature and Extent of Resource Description"; Glossary

ISO: §7.1.5.1, "Institutional Taxonomies"; Glossary


currency codes: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"



item: §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"




J

J


POLITICAL SCIENCE


in LCC: Figure 7.3





JavaScript Object Notation (see JSON)

Jefferson, Thomas: §7.3.2, "The Library of Congress Classification"

Joint Photographic Experts Group (see JPEG)

JPEG: §4.4, "Describing Non-text Resources"; Glossary

JSON: §8.2.2.1, "JSON"; Glossary


metamodel: §8.2.2, "Comparing Metamodels: JSON, XML and RDF"



Jupiter: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"

jurisdiction: Sidebar "In Which Country Do You Live?"




K

K


LAW


in LCC: Figure 7.3





Kahle, Brewster: Sidebar "The Internet Archive and the "Wayback Machine""

Kent, William: §5.1, "Introduction"

Kentucky Fried Chicken (see KFC)

Kepler observatory: Sidebar "Too Many Planets to Enumerate: Keeping up with Kepler"

KFC: Glossary

Kid Kameleon: Sidebar "A DJ Describes and Organizes Music"

kinship relationships


as names or identifiers: §4.2.1, "Naming {and, or, vs.} Describing"



kitchen: Sidebar "Kitchen Organizing System"

KM: Sidebar "Library {and, or, vs.} Business Organizing Systems"; Glossary

Knowledge Management (see KM)




L

L


EDUCATION


in LCC: Figure 7.3





language


aboriginal


Guugu Yimithirr: §6.2.1, "Cultural Categories"



absolute synonyms: §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy"; Glossary

antonymy: §5.4.1.5, "Antonymy"; Glossary

character: Glossary


glyph: §8.3.1, "Notations"; Glossary



class inclusion semantics


hypernym: §5.4.1.1, "Hyponymy and Hyperonymy"; Glossary

hyponym: §5.4.1.1, "Hyponymy and Hyperonymy"; Glossary



controlled vocabulary: §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies"; Glossary

grammar: Glossary; Glossary

homographs: §3.4.2.2, "Homonymy, Polysemy, and False Cognates"; Glossary

homonyms: Glossary

index: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""; Glossary

inflectional morphology: §5.4.3.2, "Inflectional Morphology"; Glossary

lexical perspective: §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"; Glossary

linguistic relativity: §6.2.1, "Cultural Categories"; Sidebar "Linguistic Relativity"; Glossary

markup: Glossary

metamodels: §8.2, "Structuring Descriptions"; Glossary

metonymy: §5.4.1.2, "Metonymy"; Glossary

morphemes: Glossary


compounding: Glossary

derivational morphology: §5.4.3.1, "Derivational Morphology"; Glossary

root word: Glossary

stemming: Sidebar "Text Processing"; Glossary



morphology: §5.4.3, "Relationships among Word Forms"; Glossary

name: §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"; Glossary

name matching: §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"; Glossary

namespace: §3.4.3.4, "Make Identifiers Unique or Qualified"; Glossary

notation: Glossary

polysemes: Glossary

polysemy: Glossary

predicate: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"; Glossary

propositional synonyms: Glossary

qualified name


resolution: Glossary



qualified names: Glossary

schema: §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description"; Glossary


constraint: §8.2.1.2, "Sets"; Glossary



semantic gap: §3.4.2.5, "The Semantic Gap"; Glossary

similarity: Glossary

subject: Glossary

synonym: Glossary

synonymy: Glossary

synset: Glossary

syntax: Glossary

text processing


sidebar: Sidebar "Text Processing"



thesaurus: §5.4.2, "Thesauri"; Glossary

vocabulary problem: §3.4.2.1, "The Vocabulary Problem"; Glossary

writing system: Glossary



Language Model (see LM)

latent semantic analysis (see dimensionality reduction)

latent semantic indexing: §9.4.2.2, "Synonym Expansion with Latent Semantic Indexing"

law


enforcement: §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"

fair use doctrine: §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""



LCC: §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"; §7.1.5.1, "Institutional Taxonomies"; §7.1.5.3, "Specifications vs. Standards"; §7.3.2, "The Library of Congress Classification"; §7.3.2, "The Library of Congress Classification"; §10.3.5, "Relationship to Other Organizing Systems"; Glossary

learns: Glossary

Legislative Indexing Vocabulary: §5.4.2, "Thesauri"

lexical gap: §5.4, "The Lexical Perspective"; Glossary

lexical perspective: §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"; Glossary


analyzing relationships: §5.4, "The Lexical Perspective"

hypertext links: Sidebar "Perspectives on Hypertext Links"



lexical relationship


antonymy: §5.4.1.5, "Antonymy"; Glossary



library: Sidebar "Color Coded Library"; Sidebar "Stop and Think: What is a Library?"

Library 2.0: Sidebar "Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ..."

library catalog card: Sidebar "Card From Library Catalog"

Library of Congress Call Number (see LOC-CN)

Library of Congress Classification (see LCC)

Library of Congress Subject Headings (see LOC-SH)

library robot: Sidebar "Library Robot"

library science


acquisition: §2.1, "Introduction"

authority control: §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies"; Glossary

bibliography: Glossary

bibliometrics: §5.5.3.3, "Bibliometrics, Shepardizing, and Social Network Analysis"; Glossary


Shepardizing: Glossary



collection development: §2.1, "Introduction"

curation: Glossary

fonds: §1.3.2, "What Is Being Organized?"; Glossary

index: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""; Glossary

materiality: Glossary

metadata: Glossary


administrative: §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"



object warrant: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"; Glossary

organizing systems: Sidebar "Library {and, or, vs.} Business Organizing Systems"

property: Sidebar "Property"; Glossary

provenance: Glossary

scientific warrant: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"; Glossary

Shepardizing: Glossary

sufficient: §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"; Glossary

user warrant: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"; Glossary

warrant principle: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"; Glossary

what is: Sidebar "What Is a Library?"



linguistic relativity: §6.2.1, "Cultural Categories"; Sidebar "Linguistic Relativity"; Glossary

link (see hypertext link)

link base: Glossary

link type: Sidebar "Perspectives on Hypertext Links"; Glossary

linked data: §9.4.4.2, "Linked Data Retrieval and Resource Discovery"

Linnaeus, Carl: Dedication; §3.2.1, "Resource Domain"; §6.2.4, "A "Categorization Continuum""

list: §8.2.1.3, "Lists"; Glossary

literary warrant: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"; Glossary

LM: §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models"; Glossary

loading resources: Glossary

LOC-CN: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"; §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"; §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"; Glossary

LOC-SH: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"; §5.4.2, "Thesauri"; §8.2.3.2, "Controlling Values"; Glossary

locative effectivity: §3.5.2, "Effectivity"

locative inclusion: Glossary

logical hierarchy: §2.3.3, "Organizing with Multiple Resource Properties"; Glossary

logistics: §3.2.5.2, "Digital Description of a Primary Physical Resource"

loop


infinite (see infinite loop)






M

M


MUSIC


in LCC: Figure 7.3





machine learning: §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory"; Glossary; Glossary


clustering: §6.5.2, "Implementing Categories That Do Not Conform to the Classical Theory"; Glossary

statistical pattern recognition: Glossary

supervised: Glossary

training set: Glossary

unsupervised: Glossary



MADS: §8.2.3.2, "Controlling Values"; Glossary

maintaining: §2.1, "Introduction"; §2.1, "Introduction"; §2.5, "Maintaining Resources"; Glossary

mandated classification: §7.1.5.4, "Mandated Classifications"

manifestation: §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"; Glossary

map: Glossary

MARC: §5.8.2.2, "Resource Description and Access (RDA)"; §7.1.5.3, "Specifications vs. Standards"

markup: Glossary

marriage relationship


traditional definition: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"



Mars: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"

mash-up: Sidebar "Mash-up of Housing and Crime Stats"

mash-ups: §9.4.4.1, "Mash-Ups"

materiality: Glossary

materials facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

mathematical characters: §3.2.2, "Resource Format"

matter facet: §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

Mechanical Turks: §3.2.3.2, "Active or Operant Resources"

medical information: Sidebar "Stop and Think: How Much Organization of Medical Information?"

Medical Subject Headings (see MeSH)

member-collection inclusion: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

Memex: §2.5.3.2, "Individual Curation"

memory institution: §2.5.1, "Motivations for Maintaining Resources"

Mercury: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"

meronymic inclusion: Glossary

MeSH: §4.3.4.3, "Controlled Vocabularies and Content Rules"; §8.2.3.2, "Controlling Values"; Glossary

metacrap: Sidebar "Metacrap"

metadata: §4.2.2.2, "Metadata"; Sidebar "Wikipedia Info Boxes"; Glossary


abstraction in


schemas: §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description"



administrative: §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"

as resource description: §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources"

course syllabus: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Structural Metadata for a Course Syllabus"

Dublin Core: §5.8.2.3, "RDA and the Semantic Web"

extends to include


bookmarks, ratings, tags: §4.2.2.2, "Metadata"



FOAF: §5.8.2.3, "RDA and the Semantic Web"

important relationships: §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"

introduction: §4.1, "Introduction"

Metadata Authority Description Standard (MADS): §8.2.3.2, "Controlling Values"

preservation: §4.3.2.4, "Resource Description to Support Maintenance"; §4.3.2.4, "Resource Description to Support Maintenance"

structural: Sidebar "Structural Metadata"; Sidebar "DocBook Schema"

XML Schema: §4.2.2.2, "Metadata"



Metadata Authority Description Standard (see MADS)

metamodel: §8.2, "Structuring Descriptions"; Glossary


JSON: §8.2.2.1, "JSON"; Glossary

JSON, XML, RDF: §8.2.2, "Comparing Metamodels: JSON, XML and RDF"

RDF: Glossary

XML Information Set: Glossary

XML Infoset: §8.2.2.2, "XML Information Set"



metonymy: §5.4.1.2, "Metonymy"; Glossary

military inventory system: §3.4.3.4, "Make Identifiers Unique or Qualified"

Miller, George: Dedication; §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy"

mixed content: Sidebar "Mixed Content"

modeling


with constraints: §8.2.3, "Modeling within Constraints"



Mona Lisa


original vs. derivative: §2.5.2.3, "Preserving Resource Instances"



monothetic categories: Glossary

Moore's law: §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"; §11.3, "Smarter Farming in Japan"

morphemes: Glossary

morphology: §5.4.3, "Relationships among Word Forms"; Glossary

Motion Picture Association of America (see MPAA)

MPAA: §2.3.1.1, "Organizing with Properties of Physical Resources"; Glossary

multidimensional scaling (see dimensionality reduction)

multiple properties: §6.3.3, "Multiple Properties"

multiple resource properties: §2.3.3, "Organizing with Multiple Resource Properties"

museum: Sidebar "Most Common Museum Interaction"


Barnes Collection: Sidebar "The Barnes Collection"

collection development: §2.1, "Introduction"

describing resources: §4.4.1, "Describing Museum and Artistic Resources"

materiality: Sidebar "Materiality"



Museum 2.0: Sidebar "Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ..."

music


accidentals notation, ♯: §8.3.1, "Notations"

describing: §4.4.3, "Describing Music"






N

N


FINE ARTS


in LCC: Figure 7.3





n-ary links: Glossary

name: §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"; Glossary


identifier: §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"; Glossary



name matching: §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"; Glossary

named entities: Sidebar "Mixed Content"

names: §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"


versus identifiers: §3.4.3, "Choosing Good Names and Identifiers"



namespace: §3.4.3.4, "Make Identifiers Unique or Qualified"; Glossary

naming: §3.4.1, "What's in a Name?"; Sidebar "Unreliable Names: Knockin' On Heaven's Door"; Sidebar "From 'Kentucky Fried Chicken' to 'KFC'"; Sidebar "Semantic Gap: Name This Tune"; Sidebar "Names {and, or, vs} Identifiers"; Sidebar "Aliasing: Bad for this Fish"; Sidebar "Whistler's Mother"


choosing good names: §3.4.3, "Choosing Good Names and Identifiers"

resource description: §4.2.1, "Naming {and, or, vs.} Describing"

resources: §3.4, "Naming Resources"

schemes: §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"



NAPO: Glossary

National Association of Professional Organizers (see NAPO)

National Center for Supercomputing Applications (see NCSA)

National Football League (see NFL)

National Institute of Health (see NIH)

National Institute of Standards and Technology (see NIST)

National Science Foundation (see NSF)

natural category: §6.4.2, "Basic or Natural Categories"

Natural Language Processing (see NLP)

navigation: §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"

NCSA: Glossary

necessary and sufficient properties: §6.3.3.3, "Necessary and Sufficient Properties"; Sidebar "The Classical View of Categories"

Nelson, Price Rogers (see Prince)

Nelson, Ted: Dedication


hypertext: §5.5.3.1, "Hypertext Links"



Nemo: §3.4.3.3, "Allow Aliasing"

Neptune: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"

Nest themostat: Sidebar "Active Resources: The Nest Thermostat "Ecosystem""

NFL: Glossary

NIH: Glossary

NIST: Glossary

NLP: §9.4.2.2, "Synonym Expansion with Latent Semantic Indexing"; Glossary

node: Glossary

non-text resources


describing: §4.4, "Describing Non-text Resources"



normalization: Sidebar "Text Processing"


database: §3.3.3, "Identity and Information Components"



Norman, Donald: Dedication; §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"; §7.5, "Classification by Activity Structure"

normativity: §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics"

notation: Glossary


character encoding: §8.3.1, "Notations"; Glossary

resource description: §8.3.1, "Notations"



NSF: Glossary

NSPO: §1.3.6, "How (or by Whom) Is It Organized?"

number sign, #: §8.3.1, "Notations"

numbering schemes: §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"

numerical ordering: §4.3.3.2, "Extrinsic Static Properties"; §5.3.2.2, "Transitivity"; §6.3.2, "Single Properties"; §7.1.4, "Classification Schemes"

Nunberg, Geoff: Sidebar "What Is Information?"; §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"




O

OASIS: Glossary


UBL: §7.1.5.3, "Specifications vs. Standards"



object


data structure: Glossary

facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"



Object Management Group (see OMG)

object warrant: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"; Glossary

objectivity: §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics"

obtaining: §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"; §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"

Ochocinco: Sidebar "Names {and, or, vs} Identifiers"

OCLC: §5.8.2, "Bibliographic Organizing Systems"; §7.1.5.3, "Specifications vs. Standards"; Glossary

OMG: Glossary

one-way: Glossary

one-way link: Glossary

ONIX: §8.2.3, "Modeling within Constraints"

Online Computer Library Center (see OCLC)

online library catalog: §3.2.5.2, "Digital Description of a Primary Physical Resource"

ontology: Glossary


Cyc: §5.3.3, "Ontologies"

introduction: §5.3.3, "Ontologies"



Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information
                        Standards (see OASIS)

organizational constraints: §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"

organize: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"; Glossary

organizing: §2.1, "Introduction"; Glossary


activity in organizing systems: §2.1, "Introduction"

by whom: §1.3.6, "How (or by Whom) Is It Organized?"

degree: §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"

digital resources: §2.3.2, "Organizing Digital Resources"

how: §1.3.6, "How (or by Whom) Is It Organized?"

how much: §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"

identity: §1.3.2, "What Is Being Organized?"

multiple resource properties


faceted classification: §2.3.3, "Organizing with Multiple Resource Properties"

logical hierarchy: §2.3.3, "Organizing with Multiple Resource Properties"



physical resources: §2.3.1, "Organizing Physical Resources"

principle: §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle""

professionals: §1.3.6, "How (or by Whom) Is It Organized?"

resources: §2.3, "Organizing Resources"


for interactions: §9.3, "Reorganizing Resources for Interactions"

how to think about: §3.2, "Four Distinctions about Resources"



spices: Sidebar "Organizing Spices By Cuisine"

this book: §1.4, "Organizing This Book"

what: §1.3.2, "What Is Being Organized?"

when: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"

why: §1.3.3, "Why Is It Being Organized?"



organizing principles: Glossary

organizing system: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"; §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"; §1.2, "The "Organizing System" Concept"; Glossary


architectural thinking: §10.5.2, "Architectural Thinking"

case studies: Chapter 11, "Case Studies"


Antikythera Mechanism: §11.11, "The Antikythera Mechanism"

CODIS DNA database: §11.9, "The CODIS DNA Database"

farming: §11.3, "Smarter Farming in Japan"

Ikea: §11.10, "Ikea"

IP Addressing in the Global Internet: §11.13, "IP Addressing in the Global Internet"

kitchen: §11.5, "Organizing a Kitchen"

Knitting supplies: §11.14, "Knitting Supplies"

knowledge: §11.15, "Making a Documentary Film"

knowledge management: §11.2, "Knowledge Management for a Small Consulting Firm"

luxury brand store: §11.7, "Luxury Brand Store"

My Vegetable Garden: §11.12, "My Vegetable Garden"

Netflix: §11.6, "Netflix"

photo collection: §11.1, "A Multi-generational Photo Collection"

TEMPLATE: Chapter 11, "Case Studies"

textbook publishing: §11.4, "Single-Source Textbook Publishing"

weekly newspaper: §11.10, "Ikea"

yours: §11.16, "Your Own Case Study Goes Here"



choosing technology


scope- and scale-appropriate: §10.5.1, "Choosing Scope- and Scale-Appropriate Technology"



design decisions: §1.3, "Design Decisions in Organizing Systems"

design space: §1.3.1, "Organizing Systems in a "Design Space""

designing and implementing: §10.5, "Designing and Implementing an Organizing System"

domain


defining and scoping: §10.3, "Defining and Scoping the Organizing System Domain"



interactions: §9.1, "Introduction"


access policies: §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"

determining: §9.2, "Determining Interactions"

user requirements: §9.2.1, "User Requirements"



life span: §2.2, "Selecting Resources"

lifecycle: §10.2, "The Organizing System Lifecycle"

maintaining


properties and principles: §10.6.2, "Maintaining an Organizing System: Properties, Principles and Technology
                Perspective"

resource perspective: §10.6.1, "Maintaining an Organizing System: Resource Perspective"

technology perspective: §10.6.2, "Maintaining an Organizing System: Properties, Principles and Technology
                Perspective"



operating and maintaining: §10.6, "Operating and Maintaining an Organizing System"

operating environment: §2.2, "Selecting Resources"

requirements


for interactions: §10.4.1, "Requirements for Interactions in Organizing Systems"

identifying: §10.4, "Identifying Requirements for an Organizing System"



roadmap: §10.1, "Introduction"

standardization and legacy: §10.5.4, "Standardization and Legacy Considerations"

three tiered: Sidebar "The Three Tiers of Organizing Systems"

view


multidimensional: §1.3.1.2, "A Multifaceted or Multidimensional View"

multifaceted: §1.3.1.2, "A Multifaceted or Multidimensional View"



ways to classify: §1.3.1.1, "Conventional Ways to Classify Organizing Systems"

what, why, where, when, how and by whom?: §1.3, "Design Decisions in Organizing Systems"



Organizing Systems: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"

original order: Sidebar "Photo Collection Kept in Original Order"

orthogonal decomposition (see dimensionality reduction)

orthogonality: §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics"

OWL: §5.8.1, "The Semantic Web and Linked Data"

O'Reilly, Tim: Sidebar "Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ..."




P

P


LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE


in LCC: Figure 7.3





Panizzi, Antonio: Dedication; §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"

parchment: §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"


(see also curation)



part-whole inclusion: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

patient management system: §4.3.7.2, "Evaluating the Use of Resource Descriptions"

PDF: Glossary

periodic table: §6.2.3, "Institutional Categories"

persistence: §3.5.1, "Persistence"; Glossary

Personal Information Management (see PIM)

personality facet: §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

perspective


architectural: §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"; Glossary

implementation: §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"; Glossary

lexical: §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"; Glossary

semantic: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"; Glossary

structural: Glossary



perspectives, diverse: Dedication

pervasive computing: §3.1.1.2, "Bibliographic Resources, Information Components, and "Smart
                        Things" as Resources"

phase-activity inclusion: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

physical arrangement


versus classification: §7.1.3, "Classification vs. Physical Arrangement"



physical attributes facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

physical environment: §10.3.4, "Physical or Technological Environment"

physical resources: Sidebar "A Cuneiform Document at the Pergamon"


digital zoo: Sidebar "The Global Digital Zoo"

identity: §3.3.1, "Identity and Physical Resources"

interactions


telepresence: Sidebar "The Global Digital Zoo"



organizing: §2.3.1, "Organizing Physical Resources"



physical things: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"

PIM: §2.5.3.2, "Individual Curation"; Glossary

place-area inclusion: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

planets: Sidebar "Too Many Planets to Enumerate: Keeping up with Kepler"

planets, enumerated: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"

Plato: Dedication

Pluto


inferior planet: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"

planet: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"



policies


access: §2.4.3, "Access Policies"



polysemes: Glossary

polysemy: §5.4.1.4, "Polysemy"; Glossary

polythetic: Glossary

Portable Document Format (see PDF)

portion-mass inclusion: Glossary

possession relationship: §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships"; §5.3.1.3, "Possession"; Glossary

precision: §9.5.2.2, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"; Glossary


tradeoffs: §6.4.3, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"



predicate: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"; Glossary

predicate/argument syntax: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"

presentation


architectural tier: Sidebar "The Three Tiers of Organizing Systems"



preservation: §2.5.2, "Preservation"; §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"; Glossary


(see also curation)



preservation metadata: §4.3.2.4, "Resource Description to Support Maintenance"; Glossary


effectivity: §4.3.2.4, "Resource Description to Support Maintenance"



primary resource: §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource""; Glossary

primary subject matter: §4.4.1, "Describing Museum and Artistic Resources"

Prince: Sidebar "Names {and, or, vs} Identifiers"

principle: Sidebar "Separation Of Organizing Principle From Implementation"


category creation


enumeration: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"

family resemblance: §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance"

goal-derived: §6.3.8, "Goal-Derived Categories"

multiple properties: §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

similarity: §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

single properties: §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

theory-based: §6.3.7, "Theory-Based Categories"



collocation: §1.2.3.1, "The Concept of "Organizing Principle""; §2.3, "Organizing Resources"; §10.4.3, "Requirements about Intentional Arrangement"

core competency: §2.2.2, "Selection Principles"

enumeration: §10.4.3, "Requirements about Intentional Arrangement"

integration: §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"

intentional arrangement: §10.4.3, "Requirements about Intentional Arrangement"

organizing: Glossary

persistence: Glossary

representation: §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"

selecting: §2.2.2, "Selection Principles"

sufficiency and necessity: §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"

tradeoffs: §1.2, "The "Organizing System" Concept"

uniqueness: §7.2.2.2, "Principles for Assigning Resources to Categories"; Glossary

user convenience: §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"

user warrant: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"; Glossary

warrant: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"; Glossary



principle components analysis (see dimensionality reduction)

principled classification: §7.2.2, "Classification Is Principled"

process: §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources"

properties: Sidebar "Intrinsic Static Properties Define a Dalmatian"; Sidebar "Stop and Think: Arranging a Clothing Store "


contextual: §4.3.3.4, "Extrinsic Dynamic Properties"; Glossary

cultural: Glossary

extrinsic dynamic: §4.3.3.4, "Extrinsic Dynamic Properties"

extrinsic static: §4.3.3.2, "Extrinsic Static Properties"

identifying


for resource description: §4.3.3, "Identifying Properties"



intrinsic dynamic static: §4.3.3.3, "Intrinsic Dynamic Properties"

intrinsic static: §4.3.3.1, "Intrinsic Static Properties"

of semantic relationships: §5.3.2, "Properties of Semantic Relationships"



property: Sidebar "Property"; Glossary


attribute: Glossary

essence: §4.3.3.4, "Extrinsic Dynamic Properties"

gradience: §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance"

inherited: §6.3.3.1, "Multi-Level or Hierarchical Categories"

intension: §6.3.2, "Single Properties"; Glossary

persistence: §4.3.3.4, "Extrinsic Dynamic Properties"

value: Glossary



propositional synonyms: Glossary

provenance: §3.5.4, "Provenance"; Sidebar "Chinese Manuscript With Provenance Seals"; Glossary

purpose


category: §6.4.4, "Category Audience and Purpose"

classification: §7.2.1, "Classification Is Purposeful"

resource description: §4.3.2, "Determining the Purposes"






Q

Q


SCIENCE


in LCC: Figure 7.3





QR: §3.2.2, "Resource Format"; §3.2.5.4, "Physical Description of a Primary Digital Resource"; §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"; Glossary

qualified names: Glossary

quality: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Defining Quality "; Glossary


criteria: §4.3.7, "Evaluating Resource Descriptions"



querying: Glossary

Quick Response (see QR)




R

R


MEDICINE


in LCC: Figure 7.3





Radio-frequency Identification (see RFID)

Ranganathan, S. R.: Dedication; §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

ranking


and relevance: §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"

quality of: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"

search results: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"



RDA: §5.8.2.2, "Resource Description and Access (RDA)"; §5.8.2.2, "Resource Description and Access (RDA)"; §5.8.2.3, "RDA and the Semantic Web"; §8.2.3.1, "Specifying Vocabularies and Schemas"

RDF: §4.2.2, ""Description" as an Inclusive Term"; §4.2.2.4, "Resource Description Framework (RDF)"; §5.8.1, "The Semantic Web and Linked Data"; §5.8.2.3, "RDA and the Semantic Web"; Glossary


metamodel: §8.2.2, "Comparing Metamodels: JSON, XML and RDF"; §8.2.2.3, "RDF"

property: Glossary

subject: Glossary

triple: §8.2.2.3, "RDF"; Glossary

vocabulary: Glossary



reachability: Glossary

recall: §9.5.2.2, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"; Glossary


tradeoffs: §6.4.3, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"



regular expressions: Glossary

relationship


among word meaning: §5.4.1, "Relationships among Word Meanings"

asymmetric: Glossary

attribution: Glossary

cardinality: §5.6.2, "Cardinality"; Glossary

class inclusion: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"; Glossary

defined: Glossary

describing: §5.2, "Describing Relationships: An Overview"

directionality: §5.6.3, "Directionality"; Glossary

edge: Glossary

equivalence: §5.3.2.3, "Equivalence"; Glossary

in organizing systems: §5.8, "Relationships in Organizing Systems"

inclusion: §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships"; Glossary

introduction: §5.1, "Introduction"

inverse: §5.3.2.4, "Inverse"; Glossary

kinship: §5.1, "Introduction"

one-way: Glossary

ontology: Glossary

possession: §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships"; Glossary

semantic: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"

semantic perspective: Glossary

symmetric: Glossary

taxonomy: Glossary

to other organizing systems: §10.3.5, "Relationship to Other Organizing Systems"

traditional marriage: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"

transitive: §5.3.2.2, "Transitivity"

transitivity: Glossary



relationships


among organizing systems: §2.2, "Selecting Resources"



relevance: §9.5.2, "Effectiveness"

reporting: Glossary

representation: §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"

requirements


conflicting: §10.4.4, "Dealing with Conflicting Requirements"

for implementation syntax: §5.7.3, "Requirements for Implementation Syntax"

intentional arrangement: §10.4.3, "Requirements about Intentional Arrangement"

traceability: §10.4, "Identifying Requirements for an Organizing System"; §10.5.1, "Choosing Scope- and Scale-Appropriate Technology"



resolution: Glossary

resolving names: Glossary

resource: §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource""; Glossary


aboutness: §2.3, "Organizing Resources"; Glossary

access policies: §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"

access vs control: §10.5.3, "Distinguishing Access to Resources from Resource Control"

active: §3.2.3.2, "Active or Operant Resources"

ad hoc category: Glossary

affordance: §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"; Glossary

agency: §3.2.3, "Resource Agency"

appraisal: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"

authentication: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"

authenticity: §3.5.3, "Authenticity"

bibliography: Glossary

born digital: Glossary

capability and compatibility: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"

collection: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""; Glossary

collection development: §2.1, "Introduction"; Glossary

computed: Sidebar "Fantasy Football"

creating: Sidebar "What about "Creating" Resources?"

curation: §2.5.3, "Curation"

describing


for interaction: §9.3.1, "Identifying and Describing Resources for Interactions"



describing context: §4.4.5, "Describing Resource Context"

description: Sidebar "Concert Ticket"


index: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""; Glossary



designed access policies: §2.4.3, "Access Policies"

designing interactions for: §2.4, "Designing Resource-based Interactions"

digital: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"

digitization: Glossary

discovery: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"

domain: §3.2.1, "Resource Domain"; Glossary

effectivity: §3.5.2, "Effectivity"

expected lifetime: §10.3.3, "Expected Lifetime of the Resources and of the Organizing System"

focus: §3.2.4, "Resource Focus"

format: §3.2.2, "Resource Format"; §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"; Glossary

format x focus: §3.2.5, "Resource Format x Focus"

governance: §2.5.4, "Governance"

granularity: §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction"; Glossary

identifiers: §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"

identifying


for interaction: §9.3.1, "Identifying and Describing Resources for Interactions"



identity: §3.1.1, "What Is a Resource?"; Sidebar "How Many Things is a Chess Set?"; §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"; §3.3, "Resource Identity"

individual


property-based interactions: §9.4.1, "Interactions Based on Instance Properties"



interactions: Chapter 9, "Interactions with Resources"

introduction: §3.1, "Introduction"

item: §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"

loading: Glossary

maintaining: §2.5, "Maintaining Resources"


motivations: §2.5.1, "Motivations for Maintaining Resources"



manifestation: §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"; Glossary

metadata: Glossary

names: §3.1.2, "Identity, Identifiers, and Names"

naming: §3.4, "Naming Resources"; §3.4.2, "The Problems of Naming"

organizing: §2.3, "Organizing Resources"


for interactions: §9.3, "Reorganizing Resources for Interactions"

how to think about: §3.2, "Four Distinctions about Resources"



over time: §3.5, "Resources over Time"

passive: §3.2.3.1, "Passive or Operand Resources"

persistence: §3.5.1, "Persistence"

physical: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"

preservation: §2.5.2, "Preservation"

preservation metadata: Glossary

primary: §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource""; Sidebar "Concert Ticket"; Glossary

provenance: §3.5.4, "Provenance"

rich descriptions: Glossary

scale: Glossary

scope: §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources"; Glossary

selecting: §2.2, "Selecting Resources"

simple description: Glossary

smart thing: Glossary

structured descriptions: Glossary

transclusion: Sidebar "Transclusion"; Glossary

transforming


abstraction level: §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction"

from multiple systems: §9.3.2.1, "Transforming Resources from Multiple or Legacy Organizing Systems"

granularity: §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction"

modes: §9.3.2.2, "Modes of Transformation"

notation, semantics, writing system: §9.3.2, "Transforming Resources for Interactions"



work: Glossary



resource description: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Real Estate Advertisements"; Sidebar "A DJ Describes and Organizes Music"; Sidebar "Punchcard Machine"; Glossary


abstraction in: §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description"

audience: §4.3.4.2, "Who Uses the Descriptions?"

by authors: §4.3.6.2, "Resource Description by Authors or Creators"

by automatons: §4.3.6.3, "Resource Description by Users"

by professionals: §4.3.6.1, "Resource Description by Professionals"

by users: §4.3.6.3, "Resource Description by Users"

classifications: §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"

content rules: §4.3.4.3, "Controlled Vocabularies and Content Rules"

controlled vocabularies: §4.3.4.3, "Controlled Vocabularies and Content Rules"

creating: §4.3.6, "Creating Resource Descriptions"

evaluating: §4.3.7, "Evaluating Resource Descriptions"

focus


determining: §4.3.1, "Determining the Scope and Focus"



for interaction: §9.3.1, "Identifying and Describing Resources for Interactions"

for preservation: §4.3.2.4, "Resource Description to Support Maintenance"

form: Chapter 8, "The Forms of Resource Descriptions"


attributes: §8.3, "Writing Descriptions"

dictionaries: §8.4.2, "The Web World"

document: §8.4.1, "The Document Processing World"

HTML: §8.3, "Writing Descriptions"; §8.4.2, "The Web World"

introduction: §8.1, "Introduction"

JSON: §8.3, "Writing Descriptions"

microdata: §8.3, "Writing Descriptions"; §8.3.3, "Syntax"

microformats: §8.3, "Writing Descriptions"

notation: §8.3.1, "Notations"

RDF: §8.3, "Writing Descriptions"; §8.3.3, "Syntax"

syntax: §8.3.3, "Syntax"

triples: §8.4.3, "The Semantic Web World"

writing: §8.3, "Writing Descriptions"

writing system: §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"

XML: §8.3, "Writing Descriptions"; §8.3.3, "Syntax"; §8.4.1, "The Document Processing World"



frameworks: §4.2.3, "Frameworks for Resource Description"

granularity: §4.3.1.1, "Describing Instances or Describing Collections"

index: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""

introduction: §4.1, "Introduction"

naming vs describing: §4.2.1, "Naming {and, or, vs.} Describing"

overview: §4.2, "An Overview of Resource Description"

process: §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources"

purpose: §4.3.2, "Determining the Purposes"

requirements


nature and extent: §10.4.2, "Requirements about the Nature and Extent of Resource Description"



scale: §4.3.1.3, "Scope, Scale, and Resource Description"

scope: §4.3.1.3, "Scope, Scale, and Resource Description"


determining: §4.3.1, "Determining the Scope and Focus"



store map: Sidebar "A Supermarket Map"

structures: §8.2.1, "Kinds of Structures"


blobs: §8.2.1.1, "Blobs"

dictionaries: §8.2.1.4, "Dictionaries"

graphs: §8.2.1.6, "Graphs"

lists: §8.2.1.3, "Lists"

sets: §8.2.1.2, "Sets"

trees: §8.2.1.5, "Trees"



structuring: §8.2, "Structuring Descriptions"

support interactions: §4.3.2.1, "Resource Description to Support Selection"

transformation: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Dumbing down"

transforming


abstraction: §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction"

accuracy: §9.3.2.4, "Accuracy of Transformations"

from multiple systems: §9.3.2.1, "Transforming Resources from Multiple or Legacy Organizing Systems"

granularity: §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction"

modes: §9.3.2.2, "Modes of Transformation"

notation, semantics, writing system: §9.3.2, "Transforming Resources for Interactions"



trees: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Description and Expertise"

worlds: §8.4, "Worlds of Description"



Resource Description Framework (see RDF)

resource interactions


based on combining resources: §9.4.4, "Interactions Based on Combining Resources"

based on computed properties: §9.4.3, "Interactions Based on Derived Properties"

based on linked data: §9.4.4.2, "Linked Data Retrieval and Resource Discovery"

based on mash-ups: §9.4.4.1, "Mash-Ups"

based on translation: §9.4.3.3, "Translation"

Boolean search/retrieval: §9.4.1.1, "Boolean Retrieval"

by collection properties: §9.4.2, "Interactions Based on Collection Properties"

citation-based: §9.4.3.2, "Citation-Based Retrieval"

clustering/classification: §9.4.2.4, "Clustering / Classification"

evaluating: §9.5, "Evaluating Interactions"

implementing: §9.4, "Implementing Interactions"

latent semantic indexing: §9.4.2.2, "Synonym Expansion with Latent Semantic Indexing"

popularity-based: §9.4.3.1, "Popularity-Based Retrieval"

recall and precision tradeoff: §9.5.2.2, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"

relevance: §9.5.2, "Effectiveness"

structure-based retrieval: §9.4.2.3, "Structure-Based Retrieval"

tag/annotate: §9.4.1.2, "Tag / Annotate"

vector space retrieval: §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models"



restoration: §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"


(see also curation)



retailing: §3.2.5.2, "Digital Description of a Primary Physical Resource"

RFID: §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource""; §1.2.3.2, "The Concept of "Agent""; §2.2.3, "Selection of Digital and Web-based Resources"; §3.1.1.2, "Bibliographic Resources, Information Components, and "Smart
                        Things" as Resources"; §3.2.2, "Resource Format"; §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"; Glossary

rich descriptions: Glossary

right to be forgotten: Sidebar "Regulatory Constraints: Right to be Forgotten"

role-based effectivity: §3.5.2, "Effectivity"

Roman numerals: §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"

root word: Glossary

Rosch, Eleanor: Dedication




S

S


AGRICULTURE


in LCC: Figure 7.3





Salton, Gerard: Dedication; §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models"

Saturn: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"

scalability


design principle: §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics"



scale: Glossary


of collection: §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"

resource description: §4.3.1.3, "Scope, Scale, and Resource Description"



schema: §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description"; Sidebar "Structural Metadata"; Sidebar "DocBook Schema"; Glossary


data: §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories"; Glossary



Science 2.0: Sidebar "Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ..."

scientific citation


bibliometrics: §5.5.3.3, "Bibliometrics, Shepardizing, and Social Network Analysis"; Glossary



scientific warrant: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"; Glossary

SCM: Sidebar "Library {and, or, vs.} Business Organizing Systems"

scope: §4.3, "The Process of Describing Resources"; Glossary


of collection: §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"

resource description: §4.3.1, "Determining the Scope and Focus"; §4.3.1.3, "Scope, Scale, and Resource Description"



search: Sidebar "Google Image Search"

Search Engine Optimization (see SEO)

search results


selection and ranking: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"



Sebald, W.G.: §8.4.3, "The Semantic Web World"

secondary subject matter: §4.4.1, "Describing Museum and Artistic Resources"

seed library: Sidebar "Seed Library"

selecting: §2.1, "Introduction"; Glossary


activity in organizing systems: §2.1, "Introduction"

digital resources: §2.2.3, "Selection of Digital and Web-based Resources"

FRBR definition: §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"

interaction: §1.2.4, "The Concept of "Interactions""

principles: §2.2.2, "Selection Principles"

resource description


support interactions: §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"



resources: §2.2, "Selecting Resources"

vs organizing: §2.2.1, "Selecting {and, or, vs.} Organizing"



selection: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"

self-organizing systems: §1.2.3, "The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement""; §1.2.3, "The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement""; Glossary

semantic


balance: §7.4.4.2, "Design Principles and Pragmatics"

web world: §8.4.3, "The Semantic Web World"



semantic gap: §3.4.2.5, "The Semantic Gap"; Glossary

semantic perspective: Glossary

semantic relationships


analyzing: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"

types: §5.3.1, "Types of Semantic Relationships"



Semantic Web


relationships: §5.8.1, "The Semantic Web and Linked Data"



semantics


decision tree: §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories"; Glossary

institutional: §7.1.5.2, "Institutional Semantics"; Glossary



sentiment analysis: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Sentiment Analysis"

SEO: Glossary

sequential relationship: §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"

Service Oriented Architecture (see SOA)

set: §1.2.2, "The Concept of "Collection""; §8.2.1.2, "Sets"; Glossary

SGML: §4.2.2.2, "Metadata"

Shakespeare, William: §5.8.2, "Bibliographic Organizing Systems"

shared characteristic relationship: §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"

sharp sign, ♯: §8.3.1, "Notations"

Shepardizing: Glossary

signature-matching algorithms: §4.4.4, "Describing Video"

similarity: §6.3.6, "Similarity"; Glossary

Simon, Herbert: Dedication; §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"

simple description: Glossary

Simple Knowledge Organization System (see SKOS)

Simpson, Bart: §4.2.2.4, "Resource Description Framework (RDF)"; §5.1, "Introduction"

Simpson, Homer: §5.1, "Introduction"

Simpson, Lisa: §4.2.2.4, "Resource Description Framework (RDF)"

single properties: §6.3.2, "Single Properties"

SKOS: §8.2.3.2, "Controlling Values"; Glossary

SKU: §1.3.2, "What Is Being Organized?"; §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"; §7.3, "Bibliographic Classification"; Glossary

smart things: Sidebar "Stop and Think: The Internet of Things"; §3.3.4, "Identity and Active Resources"; Glossary

Smith, Adam: Dedication; §1.2.3, "The Concept of "Intentional Arrangement""; §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"

SOA: §2.2.2, "Selection Principles"; §3.2.3.2, "Active or Operant Resources"; Glossary

social classification: Glossary

social curation: §2.5.3.3, "Social and Web Curation"

socio-political constraints


access policies: §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"

power asymmetry: §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"

public policy: §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"

standards: §9.2.2, "Socio-Political and Organizational Constraints"



Socrates: Sidebar "The Classical View of Categories"

sound recordings: §2.5.3.4, "Computational Curation"


(see also curation)



space facet: §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

specifications: §7.1.5.3, "Specifications vs. Standards"

spectrum facets: Glossary


major facet type: §7.4.3, "A Classification for Facets"



sphinx: Sidebar "The Great Sphinx at Giza"

Sport Utility Vehicle (see SUV)

SQL: Glossary

standardization: §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"; §7.1.5, "Classification and Standardization"; §10.3.1, "Scope and Scale of the Collection"

standards: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Standards"


versus specifications: §7.1.5.3, "Specifications vs. Standards"



statistical pattern recognition: Glossary

statistical process control: §4.3.7.3, "The Importance of Iterative Evaluation"

stemming: Sidebar "Text Processing"; Sidebar "Text Processing"; Glossary

Stock Keeping Unit (see SKU)

stopword elimination: Sidebar "Text Processing"

structural perspective: §5.5, "The Structural Perspective"; Glossary

structural relationships


between resources: §5.5.3, "Structural Relationships between Resources"

within a resource: §5.5.2, "Structural Relationships within a Resource"



structure: Sidebar "Stop and Think: Intentional, implicit/explicit structure"


intentional, implicit, explicit: §5.5.1, "Intentional, Implicit, and Explicit Structure"



structure-based retrieval: §9.4.2.3, "Structure-Based Retrieval"

structured descriptions: Glossary

Structured Query Language (see SQL)

structures


kinds: §8.2.1, "Kinds of Structures"



structuring


description: §8.2, "Structuring Descriptions"



stuff-object inclusion: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"


defined: Glossary



styles and periods facet: §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

subject: Glossary

substitution: §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"; §2.4.2.1, "Value Creation with Physical Resources"; §5.3.2.3, "Equivalence"; §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy"; §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy"; §6.3.3.1, "Multi-Level or Hierarchical Categories"

sufficiency and necessity: §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"

sufficient properties: §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"; §6.3.3.3, "Necessary and Sufficient Properties"


defined: Glossary



supervised learning: §7.6, "Computational Classification"; Glossary

supply chain management: §3.2.5.2, "Digital Description of a Primary Physical Resource"

Support Vector Machine (see SVM)

SUV: Sidebar "CAFE Standards: Blurring the Lines Between Categorization Perspectives"; Glossary

Svenonius, Elaine: Dedication; §1.2, "The "Organizing System" Concept"; §4.3.2.3, "Resource Description to Support Interactions"; §7.4.2, "Faceted Classification in Description"

SVM: Glossary

symmetric relationships: Glossary

symmetry: §5.3.2.1, "Symmetry"; Sidebar "Stop and Think: Social Network Properties"

synonym: Glossary


absolute: §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy"; Glossary



synonymy: §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy"; Glossary

synset: §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy"; Glossary

syntax: §8.3.3, "Syntax"; Glossary


for implementation: §5.7.2, "Syntax and Grammar"

predicate/argument: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"

subject-predicate-object: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"






T

T


TECHNOLOGY


in LCC: Figure 7.3





tag cloud: Glossary

tag soup: §4.2.2.3, "Tagging of Web-based Resources"

tag/annotate: §9.4.1.2, "Tag / Annotate"

tagging: §4.2.2.3, "Tagging of Web-based Resources"; Sidebar "Tags on Last.fm"; Glossary


versus classification: §7.1.2, "Classification vs. Tagging"



tagsonomy: Glossary

taskonomy: §7.5, "Classification by Activity Structure"; Sidebar "Stop and Think: Office Taskonomy"; Glossary

taxonomic classification: Glossary

taxonomic facets: Glossary

taxonomy: §5.3.1.1, "Inclusion"


defined: Glossary

institutional: Glossary



technological environment: §10.3.4, "Physical or Technological Environment"

TEI: Sidebar "Mixed Content"; Glossary

temporal


effectivity: §3.5.2, "Effectivity"

inclusion: Glossary

parameters: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"



term frequency: Glossary

Text Encoding Initiative (see TEI)

text processing: Sidebar "Text Processing"

The Artist Formerly Known as Prince (see Prince)

theory-based categories: §6.3.7, "Theory-Based Categories"

thesaurus: §5.4.2, "Thesauri"; Glossary

Tillett


derivative relationships: §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"

taxonomy: §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"



Tillett, Barbara: §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"

time facet: §7.4.1, "Foundations for Faceted Classification"

time stamps: §3.5.3, "Authenticity"

tokenization: Sidebar "Text Processing"

topological inclusion: Glossary

traceability: §10.4, "Identifying Requirements for an Organizing System"

tradeoffs


among authoring environments: §11.4, "Single-Source Textbook Publishing"

and negotiations: §7.2, "Understanding Classification"

descriptive versus prescriptive: Sidebar "Navigating The Discipline of Organizing"

efficiency and speed: §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction"

flexibility and complexity: §8.2.2.4, "Choosing Your Constraints"

imposed by extent and timing: §10.4.2, "Requirements about the Nature and Extent of Resource Description"

imposed by requirements: §1.3, "Design Decisions in Organizing Systems"

inherent: §1.2, "The "Organizing System" Concept"

interaction design: §9.5.3, "Satisfaction"

organization and retrieval: §2.4.1, "Affordance and Capability"

organization versus retrieval: §1.3.5, "When Is It Being Organized?"; §1.4, "Organizing This Book"; §6.4.3, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"

principle: §1.2, "The "Organizing System" Concept"

provisioning: §7.2.2.3, "Principles for Maintaining the Classification over Time"

recall/precision: §6.4.3, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"


interactions: §9.5.2.2, "The Recall / Precision Tradeoff"



structural metadata: Sidebar "Structural Metadata"

subject to bias: §7.2.2, "Classification Is Principled"

what, why, when, by whom: §10.1, "Introduction"

who creates descriptions: §4.3.6, "Creating Resource Descriptions"



training set: Glossary

transaction costs: §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"; §6.2.3, "Institutional Categories"; §7.1.5.2, "Institutional Semantics"

transclusion: Sidebar "Transclusion"; Sidebar "Transclusion"; Glossary

transforming: §9.3.2, "Transforming Resources for Interactions"; §9.3.2.3, "Granularity and Abstraction"


resources


from multiple systems: §9.3.2.1, "Transforming Resources from Multiple or Legacy Organizing Systems"

modes: §9.3.2.2, "Modes of Transformation"





transitivity: §5.3.2.2, "Transitivity"; Glossary

translation: §9.4.3.3, "Translation"

transportation: §3.2.5.2, "Digital Description of a Primary Physical Resource"

tree: §8.2.1.5, "Trees"; Glossary

triple: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"; §8.2.2.3, "RDF"; Glossary


edge: Glossary



Twitter: Sidebar "Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ..."; §3.2.4, "Resource Focus"; Sidebar "Names {and, or, vs} Identifiers"; §6.2.2, "Individual Categories"

typicality: Sidebar "Family Resemblance and Typicality"; Glossary




U

U


MILITARY SCIENCE


in LCC: Figure 7.3





UK: §8.4.3, "The Semantic Web World"; Glossary

UN: Sidebar "Text Processing"; §9.4.3.3, "Translation"; Glossary

Unicode


character: Glossary

character encoding: §8.3.1, "Notations"; Glossary

font: §8.3.1, "Notations"


glyph: §8.3.1, "Notations"; Glossary





Uniform Resource Identifier (see URI)

Uniform Resource Locator (see URL)

Uniform Resource Name (see URN)

uniqueness principle: §7.2.2.2, "Principles for Assigning Resources to Categories"; Glossary

United Kingdom (see UK)

United Nations (see UN)

unsupervised learning: Glossary

Uranus: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"

URI: §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource""; §3.4.3.5, "Distinguish Identifying and Resolving"; §4.2.2.4, "Resource Description Framework (RDF)"; §8.4.2, "The Web World"; §9.4.4.2, "Linked Data Retrieval and Resource Discovery"; Glossary


resource: §1.2.1, "The Concept of "Resource""



URL: Glossary

URN: Glossary

user convenience: §4.3.4.1, "Principles of Good Description"

user interface


designing interactions: §10.4.1, "Requirements for Interactions in Organizing Systems"



user requirements


interactions: §9.2.1, "User Requirements"



user warrant: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"; Sidebar "Starbucks Coffee Sizes: "Anti-User" Warrant?"; Glossary

users


number and nature of: §2.2, "Selecting Resources"; §10.3.2, "Number and Nature of Users"






V

V


NAVAL SCIENCE


in LCC: Figure 7.3





validation: Glossary

value: Glossary


creation: §2.4.2, "Interaction and Value Creation"



vector space retrieval: §9.4.2.1, "Ranked Retrieval with Vector Space or Probabilistic Models"

Vehicle Identification Number (see VIN)

Venus


photo of statue: Figure 4.5

planet: §6.3.1, "Enumeration"

The Birth of Venus: Figure 4.5



VIAF: §8.4.3, "The Semantic Web World"; Glossary

video: §4.4.4, "Describing Video"

viewing: Glossary

VIN: §4.3.1.2, "Abstraction in Resource Description"; Glossary

Virtual International Authority File (see VIAF)

Virtual Private Network (VPN) (see VPN)

visiting: Glossary

visual signature: Glossary; Glossary

visualization: Glossary

vocabulary


controlled: §3.4.3.2, "Use Controlled Vocabularies"; Glossary

design: §4.3.4, "Designing the Description Vocabulary"

problem: §3.4.2.1, "The Vocabulary Problem"; Glossary

RDF: Glossary



VPN: §2.4.3, "Access Policies"; Glossary




W

warrant principle: §7.2.2.1, "Principles Embodied in the Classification Scheme"; Glossary

watermarking: §3.5.3, "Authenticity"

Wayback Machine: Sidebar "The Internet Archive and the "Wayback Machine""

Web 2.0: Sidebar "Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, Library 2.0, Museum 2.0, Science 2.0, Gov 2.0,
                    ..."

web curation: §2.5.3.3, "Social and Web Curation"

web world: §8.4.2, "The Web World"

WebMD: §10.3.2, "Number and Nature of Users"

Whistler, James Abbott McNeill: Sidebar "Whistler's Mother"

whole-part relationship: §5.8.2.1, "Tillett's Taxonomy"

Whorf, Benjamin: Sidebar "Linguistic Relativity"; Sidebar "Invoking the Whorfian Hypothesis in a Clothing Ad"

wife


traditional definition: §5.3, "The Semantic Perspective"



Williamson, Oliver: Dedication; §1.3.4, "How Much Is It Being Organized?"

Wilson, Patrick: §3.1.1.2, "Bibliographic Resources, Information Components, and "Smart
                        Things" as Resources"

Wittgenstein, Ludwig: Dedication; §6.3.5, "Family Resemblance"; Sidebar "What Is a Game?"

word forms: §5.4.3, "Relationships among Word Forms"

WordNet: §5.4.1.3, "Synonymy"; §5.4.1.4, "Polysemy"

work: §3.3.2, "Identity and Bibliographic Resources"; Glossary

writing system: Glossary


encoding scheme: §8.2.3.2, "Controlling Values"; Glossary

in resource description: §8.3.2, "Writing Systems"

JSON: §8.2.2.1, "JSON"; Glossary






X

XML


attribute: Glossary

data schema: §6.5.1, "Implementing Classical Categories"; Glossary

metamodel: §8.2.2, "Comparing Metamodels: JSON, XML and RDF"

mixed content: Sidebar "Mixed Content"

named entities: Sidebar "Mixed Content"

validation: Glossary



XML Information Set: §8.2.2.2, "XML Information Set"; Glossary


element item: §8.2.2.2, "XML Information Set"; Glossary

metamodel: §8.2.2.2, "XML Information Set"



XPath: §5.5.2, "Structural Relationships within a Resource"

XXX


YYY: §2.5.2, "Preservation"






Y

Yahoo!: §1.3.6, "How (or by Whom) Is It Organized?"

Yang, Jerry: §1.3.6, "How (or by Whom) Is It Organized?"

yarn: Sidebar "Facets in Yarn Classification"




Z

Z


BIBLIOGRAPHY. LIBRARY SCIENCE


in LCC: Figure 7.3





zoo: Glossary


antelope as document: §1.1, "The Discipline of Organizing"

as organizing system: §1.3.1.2, "A Multifaceted or Multidimensional View"

constraints: §2.3.1, "Organizing Physical Resources"

habitats: §2.3.1.1, "Organizing with Properties of Physical Resources"; §2.5.3, "Curation"

interactions: §9.2.1, "User Requirements"

preserving animal species: §2.5.2.4, "Preserving Resource Types"

resources: §2.1, "Introduction"

Smithsonian Institute: §2.3.1, "Organizing Physical Resources"

versus theme parks and preserves: §1.3.3, "Why Is It Being Organized?"

virtual: Sidebar "The Global Digital Zoo"

















Colophon
An Intentional Arrangement



Progressive
                                intentional arrangements guided by organizing principles. (A concept
                                involving progressive organization of wooden alphabet blocks was
                                rejected as suggesting a children's book.)
The cover is
                                    An Intentional Arrangement by
                                        Jen Wang. The cover font is HTF
                                Knockout.




The authors created textual content using various versions of Microsoft Word. 
        The editors, Bob Glushko and Murray Maloney, 
        managed, organized and massaged the content in 
        Word files using the DropBox cloud.
        Those Word documents were then sent out for transformation 
        into DocBook representations using scripts and hand editing.
        Murray then encoded the DocBook files with extensive semantic tagging and hypertext relationships, 
        including bibliographic and index references, 
        and transclusion of content from the chapters into the quizzes and glossary. 
        Bob and Murray used vi, oXygen, XML Spy and XMetaL word processors on OS X and Windows platforms.
        
The printed edition of The
            Discipline of Organizing was built with Altas from O'Reilly Media. Customized XSLT scripts transformed our DocBook files
        into XHTML 5 which then served as the basis for further transformations using CSS to produce
        a Portable Document Format document that the printer used to layout the thirty-five
        signatures that comprised the first edition work in its printed manifestation. 
The ePub3 electronic book editions offered by O'Reilly
        Media are built from the DocBook 5 sources using customized XSLT scripts created and
        maintained by Bob Stayton, Sagehill Enterprises. The
        scripts take advantage of discipline and user-level values encoded in DocBook attributes to
        produce profiled, custom, static ePub 3 editions.





