



The Social Media Starter Kit (Collection)
Jon ReedLauren DuganJamie TurnerMelanie Mitchell









Vice President, Publisher: Tim Moore
Associate Publisher and Director of Marketing: Amy Neidlinger

© 2013 by Pearson Education, Inc.
Publishing as FTPress Delivers
Upper Saddle River, New Jersey 07458
Company and product names mentioned herein are the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, in any form or by any means, without permission in writing from the publisher.
ISBN-10: 0-13-344231-4
ISBN-13: 978-0-13-344231-1
For more information, please contact us at info@ftpress.com







Contents
Get Up to Speed with Online Marketing: How to Use Websites, Blogs, Social Networking and Much More
Acknowledgements
About the author
Introduction
Part One Get strategic
1 Online marketing 101
2 Your online marketing plan
Part Two Get online
3 Establish a web presence: How to build a website with no technical knowledge
4 Boost your search engine rankings: How to increase your visibility on Google
5 Engage with email: How to build an email list without annoying people
Part Three Get creative
6 Build a blog: How to build trust, reputation, and traffic
7 Podcast for profit: How to attract an audience of loyal listeners
8 Lights, camera, action!: How to produce online video on a budget
9 Show, don't tell: How to showcase your business on photo-sharing sites
Part Four Get out there
10 Build a community: How to choose and use social networks
11 Find fans on Facebook: How to harness the world's largest network
12 Create credibility on LinkedIn: How to take your business networking online
13 Tap into Twitter: How to use the power of the real-time Web to build a following
14 Jack into the Matrix: How to make real money in virtual worlds
15 Pass it on: How to be discovered on social bookmarking sites
Part Five Get help
16 Do you need a consultant?: How to find someone to help you achieve your vision
An A-Z of online marketing
Index
The Ultimate LinkedIn Checklist For Small and Medium Businesses
Introduction: The Value of a Professional Network
First Thing's First: Creating a LinkedIn Profile
How to Craft a Company Page That Highlights Your Business' Value
Optimizing Your Company Page for Search
Optional: Finding Stellar Talent by Posting to Your Careers Tab
How to Highlight Your Products, Get LinkedIn Recommendations, and Increase Your Social Currency
Learn About Your Customers: LinkedIn Analytics
Building a Network of Partners, Vendors, and Potential Leads
How to Create a Professional Content Strategy to Keep Your Business on the Minds of Your Connections
Create or Join a LinkedIn Group to Become a Leader in Your Space
Optional: Using LinkedIn Ads for Low-Cost, Targeted Marketing
Conclusion
Appendix: Your Printable LinkedIn Checklist
How to Build a Mobile Website
Twitter 101: Everything You Need to Know about Twitter Marketing
How to Use Social Media Monitoring Tools
Unleash the Power of Paid Search
Understanding SEO: Building a Foundation for Long Term Success







Get Up to Speed with Online Marketing
How to Use Websites, Blogs, Social Networking and Much More
Jon Reed







Vice President, Publisher: Tim MooreAssociate Publisher and Director of Marketing: Amy NeidlingerAcquisitions Editor: Megan GraueOperations Specialist: Jodi KemperAssistant Marketing Manager: Megan GraueCover Designer: Alan ClementsManaging Editor: Kristy HartProject Editor: Jovana San Nicolas-ShirleyProofreader: Chrissy WhiteCompositor: Bumpy DesignManufacturing Buyer: Dan Uhrig
©2012 by Jon ReedPublishing as FT PressUpper Saddle River, New Jersey 07458
Authorized adaptation from the original UK edition, entitled Get Up to Speed with Online Marketing, by Jon Reed, published by Pearson Education Limited, ©Jon Reed 2011.
This U.S. adaptation is published by Pearson Education, Inc.,©2012 by arrangement with Pearson Education Ltd, United Kingdom.
FT Press offers excellent discounts on this book when ordered in quantity for bulk purchases or special sales. For more information, please contact U.S. Corporate and Government Sales, 1-800-382-3419, corpsales@pearsontechgroup.com. For sales outside the U.S., please contact International Sales at international@pearson.com.
Company and product names mentioned herein are the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, in any form or by any means, without permission in writing from the publisher.
Rights are restricted to U.S., its dependencies, and the Philippines.
Printed in the United States of America
First Printing May 2012ISBN-10: 0-13-306627-4ISBN-13: 978-0-13-306627-2
Pearson Education LTD.Pearson Education Australia PTY, Limited.Pearson Education Singapore, Pte. Ltd.Pearson Education Asia, Ltd.Pearson Education Canada, Ltd.Pearson Educación de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.Pearson Education—JapanPearson Education Malaysia, Pte. Ltd.
The Library of Congress cataloging-in-publication data is on file.







Praise for Get Up to Speed with Online Marketing
"Not to be part of the social media revolution is to miss out. Jon Reed really gets it and shows you how to join in."
—Suzanne Moore, Columnist, Mail on Sunday
"In a fast-paced digital world where it seems like everyone is playing catch up, Get Up to Speed with Online Marketing is packed with the practical, no-nonsense insight that allows anyone marketing their business not only to keep up but to get ahead."
—Justin Cooke, CEO, Fortune Cookie and Chair, British Interactive Media Association
"Why waste money and resources trying to tweak your marketing strategy for the online age? Jon Reed has done it for you by giving you the tools to join the social marketing revolution taking place. This practical and invaluable book should be on the desk of anyone wanting to make a success of their online presence."
—Claudio Concha, Head of New Media, Big Lottery Fund
"Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter or YouTube? If you want to figure out how to effectively use social media to build your business, Jon Reed's straightforward and practical guide will help you figure out which one to use and where to start."
—Suzanne Kavanagh, Skillset







Acknowledgments
I would like to thank the business owners who generously shared their experiences of online marketing with me for this book and continue to do so by contributing case studies to the website. I would also like to thank Liz Gooster, Martina O'Sullivan, Emma Devlin, and Anna Campling at FT Prentice Hall for their support, and my friends and family for their patience while I was writing Get Up To Speed With Online Marketing. I'm also grateful to the many people who tweeted encouragement while I was writing and everyone who has taken my workshops, attended my lectures, read my blogs and followed me on Twitter. It's a pleasure to be part of your social network. This book is for you.
Publishers's acknowledgments
We are grateful to the following for permission to reproduce copyright material:
Figures 6.1 and 15.13 from WordPress. WordPress is a registered trademark of the WordPress Foundation; Figure 7.1 from iTunes, screen shot reprinted with permission from Apple Inc.; Figure 11.1 from Facebook with the permission of Snapdragon. Facebook is a Trademark of Facebook Inc.; Figures 13.1, 13.6, 13.8, 13.9, 13.11 and 13.13 from Twitter with the permisison of the Tweeters; Figure 13.14 from TweetDeck; Figures 15.7, 15.8, 15.9, 15.10, 15.11 from Digg.
In some instances we have been unable to trace the owners of copyright material, and we would appreciate any information that would enable us to do so. Every effort has been made to trace the copyright holders and we apologize in advance for any unintentional omissions. We would be pleased to insert the appropriate acknowledgement in any subsequent edition of this publication.







About the author
Jon Reed is a social media consultant, trainer, lecturer, writer, and blogger. He previously worked in publishing for 10 years, including as publishing director for McGraw-Hill. He runs the following businesses:
• Reed Media (www.reedmedia.eu)—a social media consultancy business, offering social media production and training.
• Small Business Studio (www.smallbusinessstudio.co.uk)—a web design, branding, and marketing agency for start-ups and entrepreneurs.
• Publishing Talk (www.publishingtalk.eu)—a blog and online community of authors and publishers interested in social media, digital publishing, and the future of the industry.
He also blogs about anything else that interests him at www.jonreed.co.uk, and can be found on most social networking sites. Follow him on Twitter at @jonreed or @getuptospeed and find links to him on the other social sites he uses at www.getuptospeed.biz.







Introduction: Traditional marketing doesn't work: get over it!
Forget everything you've heard about marketing. Put away those marketing plans, cancel that magazine ad, and stop buying mailing lists. Traditional marketing doesn't work. It's expensive and ineffective. In today's attention economy, people screen out magazine ads, they Tivo out TV ads, ignore billboards and throw away your carefully crafted direct mail campaign with the rest of the junk mail. They spend more and more time online—especially on social networking sites. While you're trying to attract new business, they're updating their Facebook profiles and "tweeting" their every thought on Twitter.
If you're a small business owner, this is good news. You can go where your market is and save money by focusing your marketing efforts online. If you can make your products or services easy to find online, you're halfway there. This book will show you how to get started right now with the new online marketing tools.
This book has a focus on the new marketing: the new low-to-no cost online tools like blogs, podcasts, Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. These are not simply the latest online marketing tools, but a fundamentally new approach to marketing. But this is not a trend-chasing manifesto for seeking out the latest shiny new online toy. The focus is firmly on your marketing strategy, rather than on the tools for their own sake. Not every tool is right for every business. And although it covers the wide range of the new tools available, it puts them in the wider context of online marketing: building your website, using search engine marketing, and creating a winning email campaign are equally important. Many of your activities on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, etc., will be aimed at driving traffic to your website, or encouraging people to sign up to your email newsletter. These things work best together.
The marketing revolution
What we are witnessing is nothing short of a marketing revolution. Instead of indiscriminately shouting sterile corporate marketing messages at people who may or may not be interested in your product or service, today you can find people who are already interested in what you have to offer, by tapping into online communities of interest. In today's competitive marketplace you need to be findable. You need to go where your customers are and engage them in a two-way dialogue.
The first era of marketing was mass marketing—the dawn of advertising as we know it, where average products were repeatedly advertised to the largest possible number of average people, using mass communication methods, particularly television. Anyone who has seen the TV series Mad Men will have some insight into those heady days of the first ad agencies.
The second phase was direct marketing—a far more focused approach of segmenting and targeting a particular market, creating marketing lists, and then bombarding them with junk mail (er, I mean direct mail). While more targeted, this is still an interruption of people's attention.
We are now in the era of social marketing. We can still reach targeted markets—even more niche than before, in fact—but the difference now is that we are not so much interrupting them, or even seeking permission to communicate with them, as creating communities around our products and services. We are making ourselves findable by these communities so that, instead of having to find, target and mail them, they come looking for us!
"we are now in the era of social marketing"
How did this come about? What is it about modern life that makes social marketing increasingly dominant? Humans are social creatures. We have a natural instinct to connect with others. Yet modern life is isolating. More than half of us live in cities. A third of us live alone. The days of gossiping with neighbors over the garden fence, or in the corner store, seem to belong in a Miss Marple novel. More and more of us work from home or telecommute at least some of the time. Even if we have office colleagues, our multi-channel media milieu means we no longer have so many of those watercooler moments when we discuss last night's television with them. The trend is away from broadcasting toward narrowcasting—media that is individually tailored to our interests, needs and desires. Our every individual whim, taste, and preference may be met—but where are the others who share our niche interests? Thanks to the Internet, we can now connect with them.
Because social media is a personal medium where authenticity matters, it is not always easy for big corporations to use—and some have got it really, really wrong. It's perfect if you're a small business or entrepreneur: You can build trust and make connections by using your personality, and being genuine.
Anyone with an Internet connection and a bit of creativity can now communicate with the world via the written word, audio, video, and images. A radical power shift of content creation and distribution from large media institutions to individuals has taken place over the past few years: Everyone is a publisher now. That's why Time magazine's Person of the Year in 2006 was YOU.
That content is the starting point for your online marketing campaign, as you use it to reach and engage with potential customers and clients who will seek it out with their online searches. The online marketing revolution has arrived—and you can be part of it.
About this book
If you're a new or aspiring business owner, the challenges and tasks you face can appear daunting. How do you find time to market your product or service as well as doing the work required to deliver it? This book will show you quick wins, easy and effective ways to reach out to your market today. If you work for a larger business, you will also find plenty of tips here to inform and inspire and you—and help you avoid common pitfalls.
You may already use sites and services like Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, Flickr, and iTunes to keep in touch with friends, share photos or download music—but wonder how such sites can be used for marketing your business. The range of online marketing tools out there can seem bewildering. Where do you start? How do you cut through the hype?
This book shows you what works, why it works, and how to use it. It takes you step by step through the process of choosing and using online marketing tools effectively. For each tool covered, there are also tips on managing the workload (just where will you find the time for all those updates?) and measuring your results. An extensive glossary cuts through the jargon; and if you're not quite ready to take the plunge yourself, it also advises you on how to find someone to do it for you.
We will look at case studies of businesses that have succeeded with online marketing tools, in the "...in action" section of each chapter. The case studies and other businesses mentioned along the way in this book may surprise you: Most are not technology businesses, as you might imagine. They include clothing retailers, farmers, food producers, a hypnotherapist, a photographic gallery, a wedding stationery supplier, a jigsaw retailer, and a coffee shop owner—people just like you. And if you think that no one in your industry bothers with the new online marketing methods, that's brilliant news: You're in the privileged position of having a competitive advantage in your industry by being the first mover.
The new marketing isn't austerity marketing. But it does also have advantages when funds are tight. If your business is struggling as a result of the credit crunch or recession, it can be tempting to cut back on your marketing. Actually, it is the very worst time to do so. Less marketing never leads to more sales. However, by following the principles in this book, you will be able to cut back your marketing budget while increasing your reach.
"less marketing never leads to more sales"
The companion website—www.getuptospeed.biz
Online marketing is an ever-evolving field, with new social media tools cropping up all the time. It can be hard to keep up. For updates on all the information in this book, take a look at the accompanying website at www.getuptospeed.biz which includes
• A blog with further advice on each of the online marketing tools covered in this book.
• Additional case studies from business owners.
• Video tutorials showing you how to use some of the online tools, such as WordPress and Twitter.
• A podcast featuring interviews with some of the business owners mentioned in this book.
• Essential planning tools and templates to help you think strategically about your marketing.
You can also get in touch with me via the site and submit a case study sharing your own experience of online marketing. Some of these will make their way into the next edition.
Get in touch
Social media is a two-way conversation, and I want to hear from you! As the reader of this book, your opinion is the most important. Connect with me online, let me know what you did or didn't like, what you would like to see in the next edition, and tell me about your experience of online marketing.
You can also follow me on Twitter at @getuptospeed or @jonreed, find links to me on all the other social sites I use at www.getuptospeed.biz, or email me at jon@getuptospeed.biz.
For now, I wish you the best of luck with your business. Whether you're aspiring, brand new or more established, I hope you will find this book a useful guide for focusing your marketing efforts where they are most effective.







Part One: Get strategic







Chapter 1. Online marketing 101
Before we jump in with all the exciting new tools available, let's take a step back and think about what you want to achieve. Too many people think: "Everyone's blogging (or podcasting, tweeting, or on Facebook)—I should be blogging—let's start a blog!" This is the wrong starting point. Just because it's quick, easy, and free to set up an account with WordPress, Facebook, Twitter, MySpace, or YouTube doesn't mean you should. Like any form of marketing, your starting point should be your marketing aims and objectives, then identifying your community and where they hang out, then you choose appropriate tools to reach them. This chapter will give you a crash course in online marketing strategy and help you understand some key principles of social media that will enable you to use any tool appropriately and effectively.
What is online marketing?
There are almost two billion people online. Some of them are your ideal clients or customers. If you can reach even a tiny fraction of them, you will have a viable business. The Internet has brought enormous benefits to the way we market our businesses. A website is like a virtual shopfront that is always open. Email reaches targeted audiences with news of our latest products. A blog provides regularly updated information for customers and prospects, which they can comment on. People can listen to us wherever they are on an MP3 player. They can watch video demonstrations of our products online, now that massive take-up of broadband enables us to watch large streaming video files. Social networks enable us to make direct connections with people who are interested in our wares. We can reach niche audiences more easily than ever before—and the power of the Internet makes these niches global. However specialized our niche, there is a market for it online, which not only can we reach but, by increasing our visibility online, will also come looking for us.
" a website is like a virtual shopfront that is always open"
Online marketing does a lot of the same things that traditional marketing does—it just does them more cheaply and effectively with a greater reach.
You may be familiar with the traditional marketing concept of the "sales funnel." It describes the stages through which you push potential customers from being a mass market of people who are unaware of your existence to a highly targeted loyal customer who comes back for more. It also describes which marketing methods to use at which stage.

Figure 1.1 Online versus traditional marketing methods
Online marketing methods loosely map on to traditional methods, but at every stage you are making yourself visible to people who will seek you out, and engaging a highly targeted audience, rather than broadcasting an indiscriminate message and hoping for the best. Word of mouth is the Holy Grail of marketing—and very difficult to achieve offline. But it is turbo-charged with online marketing.
Why online marketing works for business
Online marketing is
• Affordable. Because it is cheaper than traditional marketing, you can use it for heavy-hitting outreach.
• Effective. People spend more time online—use online marketing to reach your market where they are.
• Authentic. Tools such as social networks, blogging and podcasting are personal media. You can use them credibly as a small business owner, in a way that is hard for large corporations to do.
Given the amount of time people spend on the Internet, particularly on social sites such as Facebook and Twitter, it makes sense to join in. The average consumer tends to be way ahead of most businesses in their use of social media. If your market is spending time on these sites, so should you—go where your market is. Specific reasons why online marketing works for business include
1. Drive traffic to your site. This is probably the single biggest reason for using online marketing. Your website is the hub of your business, and the aim of your online marketing activities is to drive traffic to it.
2. New ways to connect with your market. By establishing a presence on social sites that your market use, rather than taking an "if you build it they will come" approach to your business website, you'll become visible to a new set of prospects.
3. Build trust. People always prefer to do business with people they know. Your clients and customers can get to know you through your online presence.
4. Start a conversation. Online marketing is a conversation—not a lecture. A two-way dialogue with your customers and prospects is much more effective than a one-way broadcast of your marketing message.
5. Create value. Part of the secret of online marketing is creating useful content and giving it away. If you can create a useful resource or interesting content targeted at your niche, they will keep coming back for more.
6. Build communities and relationships. Think of your market as a "community of interest," built around a particular topic related to your business. You may also be able to create a community around your business or product—if it is interesting enough!
7. Provide quick, up-to-date information about your business or topic of interest. The "breaking news" aspect of many forms of online marketing makes it ideal for announcements about new products or services, special offers, or simply valuable topical information about your sector or area of expertise.
8. Data capture. Building a database of potential customers is a core aim of your email marketing campaign. But much of your online marketing effort will also be geared toward list building—not just your lists of Facebook fans and Twitter followers, but the calls to action you will use to encourage people to sign up to your email newsletter.
9. Market research. One of the benefits of using the new online marketing tools is that you are much closer to your market and aware of what they want. But you can go a stage further and ask them for their feedback on your products or services, or even create an online questionnaire and market it through your online marketing channels.
10. Low-cost, low-risk, effective. Most of the tools are available either free or very cheap. The investment is often in time rather than money. The risks of using social media and communicating openly with your market are low, as long as you follow the principles in this book. They are far outweighed by the benefits you will gain. For anyone still concerned about maintaining control, it is important to remember that we have already lost control—and probably never really had it in the first place. People are already talking about us. It is important for you to be aware of where those conversations are taking place, to join them, and to influence them where appropriate.
Reaching niche markets online
Another benefit of online marketing is the ability to create a viable business out of a niche market. Niches work well online, and it's easier than ever before to reach them. You may have heard of Chris Anderson's concept of The Long Tail.1 It's a variation of the 80/20 rule, applied to the revenue generated by a product range. Typically, 80 percent of your revenue will come from 20 percent of your products. A small number of "bestsellers" generates more income than a large number of low-selling items. A frequency distribution of number of products by volume of sales is not a new idea. What's new is the idea that the "long tail" of low-sellers can now be profitable—and even make more money than the "head" of blockbuster items—thanks to the low distribution costs of selling online. Amazon is a classic case of this, where a seemingly infinite variety of niche products reach a niche audience, and their low unit sales volumes over time combine to make these products not only viable but also a nice earner. If your business has an identifiable niche, and you can provide products or services at a distance, you too can benefit from the Long Tail by using online marketing to reach your community.
What is social media?
Although I've so far been talking about "the new online marketing tools," these are more properly referred to as social media. Social media is simply a collection of free, online tools and platforms that people use to publish, converse, and share content online. It's what we used to call "Web 2.0"—a second generation of more collaborative online tools.
Social media tools include blogs, podcasts, online video, photo-sharing sites, social networks, virtual worlds and social bookmarking sites—all the tools covered in this book from Chapter 6 onward.
You might also think of social media as a collection of websites and online services: Facebook, LinkedIn, MySpace, Twitter, Flickr, Second Life, iTunes, Delicious, StumbleUpon and so on. For our purposes, it is most helpful to think of it as an approach to marketing, and a subset of online marketing tools which, more broadly, include websites, search engine marketing, and email marketing.
It is a shift from "push" marketing, where we are pushing a marketing message at people, to "pull" marketing, where we are attracting people toward us with engaging, interesting, valuable content that people will seek out. People today think in a Googlesque way—they seek out what interests them. If you can tap into those communities of interest, you won't ever need to sell again—people will come looking for you.
"people today think in a Googlesque way"
You might think of it as permission-based marketing, word-of-mouth marketing, or conversational marketing. One phrase I came across a little while ago on the conference circuit is martini marketing—though it's one that I shall have to stop using in lectures and workshops because most people I speak to these days are too young to get the reference! There was a TV advertising campaign for Martini in the 1970s which used the strap line: "any time, anyplace, anywhere." That really sums up how marketing should work these days—going where your market is, reaching them with content they want, when and where they want you to.
This is a shift away from megaphone marketing—randomly shouting your message at a heterogeneous mass of people who may or may not be interested in what you have to say. By using social media, you are making yourself visible to people who are already interested in what you have to say. You can tap into these communities of interest, engage them with useful content, and build a relationship with them.
Social media marketing works for small businesses because it focuses on building customer relationships rather than sterile marketing campaigns. Resist the temptation to use that safe, impersonal corporate voice—stand out from the crowd and be yourself!
Social media myths
We've come a long way in a very short space of time with social media. The World Wide Web has only been around for about 20 years. And social media as we know it has only really been around since 2006—the year that Time magazine nominated their Person of the Year as "You." The year 2006 was a significant one in social media: Facebook opened its network to anyone, rather than just U.S. college kids; Twitter launched; and a new company called YouTube was bought by Google. These are now three of the biggest sites on the Internet. Yet some of the early myths about social media still persist. Let's dispel a couple of them now.
Myth #1—It's just for kids
Business got very excited about social media a few years ago, when there was a lot of talk of the "MySpace Generation"—i.e., using social media to reach a young demographic of kids connecting online and creating media in their bedrooms. This may have been true in 2006 when Facebook was a student network, but it is much less so now. The fastest-growing demographic in all social networks is people over the age of 35. On Facebook, 35-54-year-olds are growing the fastest, and 25-34-year-olds are doubling every six months. The largest age group on Twitter is 35-49-year-olds. Residents of the virtual world Second Life have an average age of 33, and members of LinkedIn an average age of 41—as you might expect for a more professional network.
There are, of course, still plenty of young people on social networks. This generation of "digital natives" were born into a world of digital technology. In a few years they are going to be your customers, your clients, your staff. Many of them already are. But the grown-ups are catching up. They might be thought of as "digital immigrants," at varying levels of fluency in the new digital language.
"the grown-ups are catching up"
Myth #2—It's a fad
I think we're now past the point where social media can be dismissed as a fad. It has simply become the way we use the Internet: in a social, interactive way. What is sometimes referred to as the "social web" is really just the Web. We no longer say "motor car"—we just say "car." It's taken as is that our cars are motorized. So it is becoming with the Web—it is a given that we use the Internet to connect with our friends, express our opinions, publish our photos or watch a video.
There is also hard research evidence to back up this new, social way we use the Internet. Social media channels have grown rapidly over the past year. According to a Nielsen report2 in 2009, in the UK, social sites account for one in every six minutes the average Internet user spends online. Facebook is the most popular social network globally, with 500m active users, and Twitter is the fastest-growing social media tool, with an estimated 75m users at the time of writing. You can find the latest user statistics on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/press/info.php?statistics.
Core principles of social media
There are certain unwritten rules of using social media, and people don't like it when you break them. Understanding of the culture of social media is important. If you adhere to the following principles, you shouldn't go too far wrong, whichever tool you use:
1. Be authentic, open, transparent. If there's one thing you take away from this book, it is to be authentic at all times. Don't pass yourself off as something or someone you're not. Behave in a professional way, but don't be afraid to use your personal voice. The good thing about being a small business is that you don't need to get your communications approved by a committee or signed off by five people. You can just do it. Be yourself, be authentic, and people will trust you. We live in an age where trust is no longer in big institutions but in "people like me."
2. Don't go for the hard sell. Don't spam a Facebook group with your marketing message—provide useful content that your community will value.
3. Build social currency. The best way to get a feel for social media is simply to use it. What's more, establishing a social media presence gives you "permission" to use it for marketing. Once you have been on various social sites for a while, you have more credibility: People will take you more seriously and listen to what you have to say.
4. Don't view it as just another marketing channel. Social media is a fundamentally different approach to marketing. Using it is a commitment—not a tactic or a campaign.
5. Don't treat it as a one-way broadcast medium. Yes, you can issue press releases using blogging software—but that's not really a blog. You can just use Twitter as an automatic feed from your blog—but that's not the most engaging way to use it. Social media becomes much more interesting, and effective, when it facilitates a two-way conversation between you and your community of interest.
6. Be clear about responsibilities. If you are a micro-business or sole trader, it will probably be you maintaining all of this. But if there are several of you working on the business, it pays to be clear about who is responsible for updating what and how often.
7. Be patient. Social media needs a long-term approach. A new blog takes a good six months to establish itself and build a following. You will need to spend time and effort building and maintaining your online presence before it translates into sales. But that online presence, once established, will continue to build and provide you with an essential source of potential clients and customers, highly targeted within your community of interest, who will come looking for you.
Never mind the tech
Finally, please don't worry about the technical side of things. Most of it is quite easy, and I'll take you step-by-step through the most important bits. You can also find more advice and tutorials on the website at www.getuptospeed.biz. And you can always find other people to help out, whether your in-house IT person, an external consultant or a "virtual assistant" (see Chapter 16 for more advice on this).
It really is about your business, your passions, your ideas—rather than the technology. I am not a geek. I don't get excited by technology for its own sake. I am interested in using the most effective, easy, affordable marketing tools for my businesses. Most of them happen to be online tools. You don't need to be a tech head to use social media. It's more important to have a message, some compelling content, and a bit of creativity. The rest you can learn as you go along. Most of the tools are quite easy to pick up. This is another area where the 80/20 rule applies: 80 percent of social media is content; 20 percent is technology.
"you don't need to be a tech head to use social media"
The content that you reach people with is more important than the tools you use to reach them. Tapping into communities of interest is a key goal of social media marketing. And communities are built around content, not technology.







Chapter 2. Your online marketing plan
You know that dreadful management-speak mantra: "Fail to plan and plan to fail?" Well, there is some truth in it. If you don't spend a bit of time planning your online marketing, you may not fail, but you will probably waste valuable time that you could have spent doing something more useful. You risk plowing through loads of very interesting information on, say, Twitter, only to discover that Twitter isn't really a useful tool for your business.
Don't worry—it won't take long, and you can get started with a simple one-page online marketing plan. You can find a template for this on the companion website.
Until quite recently, it was common practice to simply jump in and start using the next, new social media tool, whether it was podcasting, Twitter, or Second Life. But there is also now an emerging body of best practice and, by following it, you can save wasted time and effort and avoid embarrassment. There are some real howlers out there—examples of businesses who have not looked before they leaped, and got it very wrong. I applaud their enthusiasm—at least they're having a go. But it can backfire horribly. Many have learned from their experience and gone on to create successful social media campaigns. You can learn from their mistakes. Being open to risk and unafraid of criticism is part of what this journey is about: Make mistakes, learn quickly, move on.
It is understandable why business owners often ask themselves, say, "How can we use Facebook?" rather than "How can we reach our market?" Every new technology brings with it a search for ways to use it. But this is not the most effective starting point.
Five questions to ask yourself before you start
Your approach, and the questions you ask yourself, should be just the same as for any of your marketing efforts:
1. What are my marketing aims and objectives? Like any form of marketing, this is the starting point—not the marketing tool itself.
2. Who is my target market? Know your audience. What is your niche? What unique value can you offer?
3. Where can I find them? Where does your market hang out? Use online tools to find your community of interest and tap into it.
4. Which tools are most appropriate to use? Which tools will both reach your market and be possible for you to manage realistically?
5. How will I measure my results? How will you know if you are successful? What metrics will you use?
Note that the choice of tool comes way down the list. It pays to think strategically about how you choose and use tools described in this book.
The other reason for not simply jumping in and blogging, tweeting, or networking is that there is an art and etiquette to these things. It is important to understand the culture of social media—it is all too easy to misjudge when, where, and how to use social media, and end up annoying people by spamming them on Twitter with your marketing message rather than engaging your community of interest with useful content. Stick to the core principles of social media, and you won't go far wrong.
"it is important to understand the culture of social media"
Choosing your tools
Now you need to choose your weapons. But with so many tools out there, and new versions and variants springing up all the time, where do you start? How do you find out what works for you? It is important to go where your market is. But not everyone has time to maintain a blog. Not everyone is an aspiring DJ and feels comfortable podcasting. What can you do to reach out to your market online authentically, effectively, and efficiently?

Figure 2.1 Choosing online marketing tools
At the center of things is your product or service—the thing you want to sell. Wrapped around that is your business website—the centerpiece of your online marketing. The ultimate aim of most of your marketing effort is to drive people here. One of the things you will use to do this is search engine marketing (SEM), using tools such as Google AdWords.
Another key aim is to build an email marketing list. Your email newsletter will provide specific calls to action leading people to buy from you—and most often will also drive people to your site. And the main call to action on your website will be to sign up for your newsletter.
The next three chapters of this book look at how to get online with a website (Chapter 3), boost your search engine results with SEM (Chapter 4), and create an engaging email marketing campaign (Chapter 5).
Everything else is social media, which the rest of the book focuses on. Your social media efforts will be geared to driving people to your website, and to encouraging them to sign up to your email newsletter. These will be the most common calls to action you will use. But the proliferation of social media marketing tools now available is bewildering—and ever growing. Where do you start? Which will you use? It helps simplify things if you categorize them into content tools and outreach tools.
• Content tools comprise the four main content types found on the Internet: text, images, audio and video—which in social media translate into the content you will create: blogs, photo sharing (e.g., on Flickr), podcasts and online video (e.g., on YouTube). It is important to provide useful, informative, valuable content that is findable and "pass-on-able" by the communities of interest you want to reach. We will look at content tools in Part three: Get creative (Chapters 6-9).
• Outreach tools are, essentially, everything else—but particularly social networks such as Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter. Virtual worlds such as Second Life may also work for some businesses, and encouraging people to pass on your content with social bookmarking buttons ("share on Facebook," "Tweet this" "Digg this," etc.) gets the word out. You will use these tools to disseminate and raise awareness of the social media content you create, as well as engaging your community in conversation. We will look at outreach tools in Part four: Get out there (Chapters 10-15).
Find out what your market is using by doing some keyword searches on social sites. Discover what works for you, what you feel comfortable with, and have the time and inclination to use. Then make sure you use at least one content tool and at least one outreach tool.
You can go a stage further and also categorize social media tools into listening tools and measurement tools:
• Listening tools are what you use to gain market intelligence, "listen in" on conversations that are taking place about you or your business sector, and find existing online communities. For big brands, such as Coca-Cola or Nike, listening tools may be the main thrust of their social media marketing—listening to what people are saying about them, joining and influencing those conversations, and responding appropriately. These tools may be the standard outreach tools such as Twitter, Facebook, and Delicious, which you can do searches on; plus services such as www.technorati.com or Google Blog Search (http://blogsearch.google.com) to find blogs. You can keep up with relevant blogs in your area by subscribing to their RSS feeds and use Google Alerts (www.google.com/alerts) to monitor whatever interests you online by keyword. Use www.socialmention.com to monitor keywords across a range of social media in real time, and to sign up to "social media alerts"—like Google alerts but for social media.
• Measurement tools are any online tool you use to measure the results of your marketing. These may include some of the metrics built in to Facebook or YouTube, web services such as www.twittercounter.com, www.tweetstats.com or www.twitteranalyzer.com to analyze your Twitter statistics, or your web-stats package such as Google Analytics (www.google.com/analytics) or Clicky Web Analytics (www.getclicky.com).
Effective online marketing
It's not just the tools you use, but how you use them. To make your online marketing work hard for you, do the following:
1. Engage people with valuable content. Create content that people will value and pass on. This may be in the form of blogs, photos, podcasts or video. There is a bit of a myth about viral marketing—it doesn't have to be videos of people dancing on running machines, baby pandas sneezing, or other cool stuff the kids will pass on. It just has to be useful to someone. Interesting, engaging and informative, and likely to help your target market in some way. That may be a blog post explaining how recent tax changes affect businesses. It may be a video demonstration. It may simply be a link to a useful news article shared on Twitter.
2. Be findable. Search isn't just about Google—people also search on YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, iTunes and elsewhere. Having a presence on these sites improves your chances of being found. But also make sure your social media channels are easy to find—link between them, and include a little "social media cloud" of icons on your website that link to your presence on social sites. Then make it easy for other people to increase your findability: Encourage pass-on by using social bookmarking buttons on blog posts (see Chapter 15).
3. Use calls to action. These are not used often enough in online marketing. You've gone to a lot of effort to get people on to your website—now tell them what you want them to do. That may be to sign up to your email newsletter, download something, buy something. Use calls to action on your social media too, at the end of blog posts, podcasts or video, or in your social networking status updates.
4. Use multiple tools—their combined effect is greater than the sum of its parts.
Manage the workload
"This is all very well," you may say, "but where on Earth am I going to find the time for all these blog posts and status updates?" It's a fair question. In our always-on culture, with a constant demand for information—and free information, at that—it can seem impossible to keep up. We will look at ways to manage the workload for each tool, but if you follow these general principles, you will be able to avoid working all hours like a social media Stakhanovite:
1. Plan your media and resourcing. Audit your existing social media and reuse and repurpose material where possible.
2. Encourage user-generated content, whether Flickr photos, video responses on YouTube or blog comments.
3. Share the workload with multi-author blogs, and multiple logins and admins for Facebook pages or Twitter accounts.
4. Leave a digital footprint wherever you go—rather than updating multiple sites all the time. Use sites such as FriendFeed that aggregate your updates, RSS feeds and bookmarks—then import that feed to your Facebook page or display it as an RSS widget on your blog.
5. Use multiplier effects. Automatically tweet your blog using www.twitterfeed.com. Pull your blog into Facebook using the Notes function or an RSS app. Make your Twitter status automatically become your Facebook status.
6. Integrate social media into your working life with desktop applications such as www.tweetdeck.com.
7. Set aside time. Finally, there is no substitute for finding time. Set aside time to work on your social media as you would for any other marketing activity.
Finally, don't be afraid to ask for help if you need it. There are online tools to help you do that too, which we will look at in Chapter 16.
Measure success
How will you know when you have been successful? Social media metrics is a new and emerging field. The way you measure your results isn't always as obvious as counting the number of flyers returned. But there is plenty you can do to find out what works—and do more of it:
1. Web analytics. There's a lot you can tell from your standard web-stats package such as Google Analytics. Not just about the number of visitors to your website, but the sources of that traffic. I use Clicky Web Analytics (www.getclicky.com), which I find useful for tracking social media sources.
2. Bean counting. How many Facebook fans, Twitter followers, and LinkedIn connections do you have? How many people have viewed your YouTube video? How many downloaded your podcast? How many people have subscribed to your blog's RSS feed? These are fairly bald numbers but will give you an idea of your reach.
3. Rankings. Where does your blog rank on www.technorati.com? Where does your Twitter account sit in relation to those other people in your industry on www.wefollow.com?
4. Calls to action. How many people actually answered that call to action? If you only made it in one place, on one channel, you know what proportion of readers/followers/members did as you asked.
5. Surveys. A more traditional method, but you can do some market research on the impact and awareness of your campaigns.
6. Conversational index. This applies to blogs and is a measure of the level of engagement with your content. It is the number of comments divided by the number of blog posts—and you're aiming for a figure above 1. You can apply this to your whole blog, to a category, or a time period.
7. Unique landing pages. This is my favorite, and where things get really forensic. OK, so 1,000 people watched your YouTube video. You had a web address on the video notes on the YouTube page—but how many took action? If you include a web address at the end of the video, and make it a unique URL—i.e., a specific web address that is only ever mentioned on that piece of video—but which automatically refers on to where you actually want people to land—you can see from your web stats exactly how many people not only watched the video, but also took action. You can use this method anywhere where you use a web address.
Your one-page marketing plan
You can write a 50-page marketing plan if you want. You can include a SWOT analysis, MoSCoW analysis, Boston Matrix, and any other number of strategic theoretical tools that are beyond the scope of this book. Or you can actually do some marketing. Don't get me wrong—planning is a good thing, and if you're writing a college assignment or seeking investment you probably will need a longer document. But if, like most of us, you don't have the luxury of time, you can write your marketing plan in a single page. What's more, you should be able to distill your entire marketing plan into one page. It's a good discipline that will keep you focused on the core aims of your business.
"you can write your marketing plan in a single page"
Here are the things you need to focus on:
1. Marketing aims and objectives. What are you trying to do? Raise awareness of a new business? Differentiate yourself from the competition? Communicate the benefits of a new service?
2. Positioning. Where do you sit in relation to the competition?
3. Target market. Who is your ideal customer?
4. Market niche. Who is your community of interest? Where do they hang out?
5. Marketing tools. Which tools will you use to reach them?
6. Calls to action. What do you want them to do?
7. Measuring success. How will you know if you've been a success? What tools will you use to measure your results?
Here is your fill-in-the-blanks marketing plan template, which you can also download from the companion website, along with a sample filled-in form at www.getuptospeed.biz/plan.

The rest of this book will look at the most important online marketing tools at your disposal.
Get online with:
• Websites—the point of most online marketing is to get people onto your website (Chapter 3).
• Search engine marketing—optimizing your website to appear higher in search engine results, plus pay per click advertising such as Google AdWords (Chapter 4).
• Email marketing—the most important "call to action" on your website is a newsletter sign-up form (Chapter 5).
Get creative and produce valuable content for your community with:
• Blogs—business blogs generate traffic, build trust, and position you as an expert (Chapter 6).
• Podcasts—audio or video files that people subscribe to. Great for building a loyal following (Chapter 7).
• Online video—connect with people on YouTube using video demonstrations, tutorials, or testimonials (Chapter 8).
• Photo sharing—use sites such as Flickr to showcase your products and encourage user-generated content (Chapter 9).
Get out there and spread the word with:
• Social networks—choose and use sites such as Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter to build a community around your business and help people discover your products or services (Chapter 10).
• Facebook—engage your community with pages, groups, and events (Chapter 11).
• LinkedIn—build professional contacts and sell business-to-business (Chapter 12).
• Twitter—harness the power of the real-time web, and the fastest-growing social media tool (Chapter 13).
• Virtual worlds—places like Second Life look like video games, but the "characters" are avatars of real people behind their keyboards—people who you can sell to (Chapter 14).
• Social bookmarking—sites such as Delicious, StumbleUpon, or Digg where people can bookmark and share content they like. Include bookmarking buttons at the end of your blog postings to encourage pass-on (Chapter 15).
We will also look at sites and services that help you find someone to help you with all this in Chapter 16, and cut through the jargon with an A-Z of social media at the end of this book. Are you ready to get connected? Let's start with the foundation of all your online marketing: your website.
Take action
• Define your marketing goals.
• Write your one-page marketing plan.
• Find your community with listening tools.
• Engage your audience with content tools.
• Distribute your content with outreach tools.
• Measure your results with measurement tools.
• Read on to discover more about these tools and choose the right ones for you!







Part Two: Get online







Chapter 3. Establish a web presence: How to build a website with no technical knowledge
A website is the most important marketing tool for your business—if you do nothing else from this book, you absolutely must have a website. Fortunately it is much easier to establish a web presence than it used to be. There's no need to put this off for a lack of geeky coding experience: whether you hire a web developer or build it yourself using an easy-to-use content management system, creating, and maintaining websites is more straightforward than ever. You can even add sophisticated functions such as shopping carts and event booking systems using low-cost third-party tools rather than having these coded into your website. And once you have your website, don't forget to spread the word with social media to draw people on to it. The Web is about connecting people, and your website is about connecting them to your business.
"creating and maintaining websites is more straightforward than ever"
What is a website?
It is no longer sufficient to have a website to say you have an online presence—you also need to be present where your customers spend their time online, such as Facebook and Twitter. But a website is your essential starting point. The aim of all your other online marketing activities is to drive people to it, but it must also point outward to your presence elsewhere on the Internet. It is the hub of your online marketing activities. The other point of your website is to sell your products or services. Once you've gone to the trouble of getting people on to your website, you want to sell them something! Make your website your online point of sale.
Your market, your business, and its needs will determine what sort of website you go for. Some options are:
A brochure website Websites used to be static collections of pages that happened to be published online, but might just as well have been printed. Today we expect more from a website than uploaded business stationery. We expect dynamic, ever-changing content. We also like to be involved in a two-way conversation rather than the passive recipient of a one-way broadcast. A brochure site will establish a web presence for you—but it's not going to get you as many leads as a dynamic website.
A blog This is like an online diary, with posts in reverse chronological order. But it is really just a special kind of website that you can update yourself—not just posts but pages. This means you can use blogging software such as WordPress as a content management system (CMS) to build an entire website. Whether your main business website is a blog or a traditional brochure website, the principles in this chapter apply to the content and approach of your site. We will look in more detail at blogging in Chapter 6.
An e-commerce site This is a website that is set up to sell products and take payments online. It is no longer necessary to invest a small fortune in creating a bespoke e-commerce site with your own shopping cart function coded from scratch. There is e-commerce software you can use on your site, or third-party websites you can use to sell through. It is now acceptable for any business to use PayPal to take payments on their websites without looking "unprofessional." You can even sell your products through an Ebay or Amazon store that you link to from your website. We will look at third-party websites and applications that you can use to extend your functionality later in this chapter.
Why a website is essential for business
A website is the most important marketing tool for your business. An online presence is a minimum requirement if you want to present a professional image, reach new customers and increase profits. A website:
• is a "shop window" that works for you 24 hours a day
• enables you to reach a global market
• promotes your products and services
• gives you credibility
• offers online support to your customers (which can save you time)
• provides a way for people to contact you.
Your clients and customers expect you to be online. How many times have people asked you for your web address or said that they'll Google you? If you're not online, you don't exist. And they'll go to your competition, who are online.

Websites in Action: Studio 8 (www.studio8shop.com)
Studio 8 is an independent men's and women's fashion retailer in Primrose Hill, London. Their first website was a single brochure site: "Just like a business card," says managing director Simon Savage who, in October 2009, decided "Right—we have got to make something happen here," and invested in an e-commerce site.
Rather than create this from scratch, the new Studio 8 site was built with a third-party web service called Powa Instant Salesware (www.powa.com), which enables small business owners to create their own branded professional online store without any technical knowledge. "Powa have templates that you can design yourself," says Simon, "but I didn't want to feel I was just knocking up any old thing. I wanted something that looked professional." He hired a designer recommended by Powa—Inspired Business Marketing (www.inspiredbusinessmarketing.com)—to create a unique design to reflect his company identity.
The same developer also custom designed a WordPress blog for Studio 8 (www.studio8darkside.com) to run alongside their Powa e-commerce site. Simon says: "The blog allowed us to show our human side. We can share a little more about ourselves and our knowledge of fashion."
The new e-commerce site went live in March 2010, and quickly paid for itself. Their web analytics show impressive results. Simon says: "Before we went live with the Powa site, we had about 4,000 hits on our website in three years. Our Google analytics show that we have had more than this number in just three months, with around 40,000 pages viewed on the e-commerce site and over 1,000 hits on my blog. There's been an increased volume of email enquries, and every question I answer has the potential to turn into a sale. The e-commerce site meets all our criteria—ease of use, plenty of information, and good search engine recognition."
There are busy times when new season's stock comes in. But Powa's easy-to-use interface means that each item takes less than five minutes to describe, catalog, and enrich with search keywords. "We're proud that our website holds its own against the bigger, more expensive sites that we admire. For the relatively small amount we invested, we've got the very best out of it," says Simon. "I've learned that a website isn't just something you upload, leave and forget. It is about consolidating; you have to embrace it and nurture it just like a real bricks-and-mortar store."
Get the idea: Use third-party software and services such as WordPress for websites and blogs and Powa for e-commerce sites, rather than code from scratch. If you need something more tailored to your brand than the design templates offered, hire a designer to create a custom theme or template. This will still be far cheaper than hiring a developer to re-invent the wheel and code a new e-commerce site from the ground up. Include a blog on your e-commerce site to make a personal connection with your customers—people like to buy from people they feel they know.

Get up to speed with your website
So, how do you build a website with no technical knowledge? The short answer is you either hire a web designer or build it yourself using a content management system such as WordPress. But doing it yourself isn't for everyone or suitable for every website. And there are other steps to think through. Do you have your own unique web address (domain name)? What content are you going to put on your website? How will you structure it? What functions can you add using third-party tools? These are the steps you need to take:
1. Choose a domain name.
2. Hire a designer or do it yourself.
3. Write a design brief and plan your content.
4. Extend your functionality with third-party tools.
5. Get social: build connections and community.
"doing it yourself isn't for everyone"
Choose a domain name
It looks far more professional to have a proper email address on your business cards, such as joe@xyzwidgets.com rather than xyzwidgets@hotmail.com or xyzwidgets@gmail.com. For this, you need a domain name, which you can use for your website too. It is fine to start off just using it for email before your website is ready (though people might come looking for it), but you must secure the domain name you want as soon as you can before someone else takes it.
There are very many companies out there selling domain names and web hosting. www.godaddy.com, www.heartinternet.co.uk and www.123-reg.co.uk are popular, but do a search for one that suits you. Domain names and hosting are relatively cheap. Unless you're using a hosted service, such as http://wordpress.com, you will also need some web space to host your site at. The simplest way is to use the same company for both your hosting and domain name registration.
Hire a designer or do it yourself?
Unless web design is your specialty, it's rarely worth having a go yourself, and not worth your time to learn how to code websites. The exception to this is if you set up your website using a content management system such as WordPress, which can be a good way to set up a professional-looking web presence quickly.
If your website requires a lot of complex functionality, don't try this at home: Hire a designer. There is advice on how to find someone in Chapter 16. The caveat here is that there is a range of third-party tools that can do many of these things for you, which we will look at later in this chapter.

Quick Win: Create your business site in minutes using WordPress
The quickest way to get a professional-looking website if you don't already have one is to put down this book right now and sign up for an account at http://wordpress.com.
Don't want to commit to a regular online diary? You can also use blogging software such as WordPress as a content management system to create "traditional" websites, since you can add and update pages as well as blog posts. Want to update some of your web content? No need to call your web developer—just do it yourself with an easy-to-use interface. Write some text, add some links, upload some images, click "Publish" and you're done. It really is that easy.
Using free tools such as WordPress, it is actually easier to build a dynamic business blogsite than the most basic static brochure site coded from scratch. There are, in fact, two versions of WordPress: http://wordpress.com, which is hosted on their servers and requires no technical knowledge; and http://wordpress.org, which you download for free and upload to your own server. We will look more at the pros and cons of each in Chapter 6.

Your design brief
The starting point for your website is your design brief. You should think this through and put some ideas down on paper before contacting a designer. The questions below are what a designer will ask. And even if you're doing it yourself, it's still a good discipline to go through this process. It will help you stay focused on the core aims and marketing objectives of your site. Think of it as a mini business plan for your website. Things to consider include
1. What type of website do you want? E.g., a simple online brochure, an e-commerce site, a business blog?
2. What is the main purpose of your website? What are its marketing aims and objectives? E.g., establish a web presence, enhance your brand, position you as an expert, drive traffic, generate leads, capture data to build a marketing database? It will probably be a combination of all of the above!
3. What look and feel are you after? Should it follow a specific brand image or color scheme? Which sites do you like the look and feel of? Spend some time looking at good and bad sites and thinking about what you want for yours. While someone else's code and content is copyrighted, there's no reason you can't pick a site you like and copy the structure.
4. Who is your competition? What are their sites like? Who is your target audience? E.g., specific business sectors, individuals, current clients, prospective clients? Are you a business-to-business (B2B) or business-to-consumer (B2C) business?
5. What is your main "call to action?" What do you want people to do once they arrive at your website? Buy something? Download a brochure? Watch a video demonstration? Sign up to a newsletter?
6. How many pages will your website have? E.g., home, about, contact, services, products, individual product pages, clients, news, etc. How will the site be structured?
7. What functionality do you need? E.g., a "contact us" form, shopping cart functions, online booking system?
8. Do you already have images or do you need your designer to source these?
9. What media do you require? E.g., audio, video, Flash animation?
10. What is your schedule? Do you have a critical launch date, e.g., to coincide with a product launch or marketing campaign?
"the starting point for your website is your design brief"
Plan your content
Even if you are putting pages together on a content management system, it pays to spend a bit of time first planning what content you want and how you want it structured. What will your main pages be? What subpages? What content will appear on each?
Information architecture
A useful starting point is an information architecture (IA) diagram—a simple flowchart showing what goes where. You can do this as a simple sketch on a piece of paper. Here, for example, is a simple IA diagram for an imaginary image consultancy business.

Figure 3.1 Information architecture
It's a good idea to keep your Information Architecture shallow—i.e., don't give people too many layers to click through to get to key information. It should be easy and intuitive for people to get to your content quickly and easily. For a complex site, you might want to run your IA past a few people in your target market to make sure it makes sense.
Content
Key pages to consider for your website include
Home page
This should provide information about what you can offer your customers or clients, plus a brief overview of what else they can find on your site. This should also be obvious from your main navigation (the links to other pages on the site). Think also about your main call to action; make any special offers prominent on the home page and, if it is a selling site, make it easy to get to your product catalog.
About us
Tell your customers a bit about yourself, your business and its history, and your vision. If your business is closely linked to you personally, be sure to include a brief biography and headshot, plus links to your personal presence elsewhere on the Internet, such as your personal blog, Twitter account or Facebook profile.
Contact us
Make it easy for people to reach you. Provide contact information in the footer of each page, with more detail on a dedicated Contact page. Include your mailing address, phone number, and email address as a minimum. You may also want to include a contact form.
Products/Services
A summary page of what you can offer, plus links to pages for individual products or services. Think about a call to action for each of these pages—such as a prominent "buy now" button. See also Shop.
Pricing
This depends on what business you're in. If you're selling physical products, include clear pricing, and ideally a currency converter if you're selling internationally. It is not always so easy to price services online, but you could consider listing a range or minimum price if appropriate, such as "£50 +VAT per hour," "from €650" or "between $1,500 and $2,000."
Search
Include a search box prominently on your site, usually toward the top-right of the screen, so that visitors can look for the things they're interested in. This is particularly important if you have a lot of content on your site. If you're using WordPress, this function will be included. You can also add a Google custom search box to your site by going to www.google.com/cse and cutting and pasting the code.
Shop
This might be a significant part of your site if your business sells products online, or a single page if you have just a few products you sell. Use PayPal "buy now" buttons if you don't have many products, and consider more ambitious e-commerce options if you have a large store.
Testimonials/Reviews
Include testimonials from current customers to show that you have a proven track record of delivering real benefits rather than theoretical ones. It helps reassure potential new clients. If you don't have any testimonials yet, email your clients, and ask for feedback. You can also use LinkedIn to solicit recommendations (see Chapter 12) or create a short customer feedback form using www.surveymonkey.com. If you sell physical products, include product reviews.
Frequently asked questions (FAQs)
These can help your customers learn more about what you do, your products and services, and help you spend less time answering queries by phone or email. If you have a complicated product, consider including online video demonstrations or tutorials somewhere on your site.
Press room
If you regularly deal with the media (this might just be your local paper or radio station), send out press releases, or get requests for interviews or speaking, include a virtual press room on your website. This should include your press releases, a high-resolution headshot, and a 100-word biography of you and any other colleagues who might appear in the media, a paragraph of blurb about your business, and examples of any media appearances. Include a list of topics you speak on or would be happy to be interviewed about.
Event calendar
If you regularly run events, such as seminars, product launches or demonstrations, or exhibitions, include an event calendar so that customers know when you are coming to a town near them. A calendar is also useful if you make regular client visits. Saville Row tailor Thomas Mahon uses one on his www.englishcut.com website to publicize his US trips. Likewise, tailors King and Allen list their "fitting days" all over the UK at www.kingandallen.co.uk.
Blog
Your website may include a blog as a subsection (e.g., www.mybusiness.com/blog) or link to a blog on a separate domain name, or your entire site may be a blog, with the latest posts appearing on the front page. If your blog is separate from your main site, you can still pull in extracts of your latest couple of blog posts on to your home page to highlight your blog and to keep your content fresh. We will look at blogging in more detail in Chapter 6.
Newsletter
There are a couple of options here:
• A Latest news section on your site can be driven by blogging software even if you don't want a blog per se. You can also deliver the latest news posts automatically by email using a service called www.feedburner.com.
• An email newsletter goes one stage further, and if you make it exclusive to subscribers you can include special offers and discounts that only apply to newsletter recipients. We will look more at email newsletters in Chapter 5.
Resources
Share some useful content in your field of expertise, such as market reports, white papers, or other documents than can be downloaded for free, or in exchange for signing up to your email newsletter. Use these as an opportunity to position yourself as an expert and share useful information without too much of a hard sell. Depending on your business, it may even be possible to sell some of these—though make sure you always keep at least some of your content free.
Widgets
A widget is a discrete bit of code from another website that adds a specific function to yours. Commonly used on blogs, they can be used on any website too. Widgets include Facebook badges, latest blog postings or tweets, photos from your Flickr account, relevant products from Amazon linked to your Amazon affiliate account, and so on. Very easy to use, just copy and paste the code supplied into your website to add extra functionality without having to invent it yourself.
Site map
For a large site with many subpages, a site map can help people find the information they need. It should be set out as a list of text links with subpages indented.
Legal boilerplate
In addition to any statutory declarations required of your company name, address and registration number, it is good practice to include a privacy policy and an accessibility statement. See www.getuptospeed.biz/policies for examples.
Extend your website's functionality with third-party tools
Why reinvent the wheel? Do you really need your own, bespoke, lovingly hand-coded web form, shopping cart or event booking system? There was a time when you had to do it all yourself because (a) it looked more professional; and (b) things like PayPal didn't exist.
Today, even large organizations use third-party web services to fulfil key, specialized functions of their businesses online. They do it better and cheaper than you could yourself. And nobody minds any more—these sites are trusted and can actually make you look more professional than if you attempt it yourself. What's more, many can be branded to your business. Most are very easy to use and will provide you with full, easy-to-follow instructions. Most will also provide you with a bit of code that you just need to copy and paste into your website or CMS.
"they do it better and cheaper than you could yourself"
Here are my top five third-party websites and services to consider for your business:
1. PayPal (www.paypal.com) What did we do before PayPal? There is no longer any need to develop complex credit card merchant scripts on your website to sell things online. In fact, it is better not to, since PayPal is a more trusted and more secure way of taking payments online. With a PayPal business account, you have access to a range of merchant services, from simple "buy now" buttons to more complex shopping cart functions. You can also send customers invoices using your PayPal account. They don't even have to have a PayPal account in order to pay you—just a credit card. Other online payment solutions include Google Checkout, ClickBank, and WorldPay.
PayPal is simple and affordable to use, and has lots of features, including "3 click" payments, the ability to issue refunds, track parcels and print postage labels. Its shopping cart feature, however, is fairly basic, and doesn't offer options such as discount codes and vouchers. If you want more sophisticated features, consider installing some shopping cart software that integrates with PayPal.
2. E-Junkie (www.e-junkie.com) E-junkie is a web-based service that provides shopping cart and buy now buttons and is suitable for both physical products and digital downloads. Use it to sell on your own website, or even on eBay or MySpace. For digital downloads such as ebooks, mp3 files and software, it will sort out the delivery of files and codes for you; for physical products it will calculate shipping and manage inventory. Powa (www.powa.com) is another web-based service that enables you to create a branded, professional online store without technical knowledge—but will also help you find a designer if you need something more bespoke. Other e-commerce solutions are based on installing software on your own site, including Actinic, ZenCart, osCommerce, and CubeCart. But if you don't want to bother with uploading and configuring software, use a web-based solution for e-commerce.
3. Wufoo (http://wufoo.com) If you need a form or questionnaire embedding in your website, particularly if you want to collect payments at the same time with PayPal, use Wufoo. Useful if you want clients to brief you on a project online—and pay you in advance at the same time—or for taking orders or event registrations. It is used by some big clients such as Disney, Sony, and The Washington Post.
4. Eventbrite (www.eventbrite.com) Many organizations who once sold tickets on their own website are now using Eventbrite. It is even used by CNN, FedEx and NASA. It is probably the best-known web service for promoting events and selling them online. I use it all the time for my workshops. Add details of your event, set the pricing, and you're good to go. Customers can pay online, by linking to your PayPal account—or they can request a traditional invoice.
5. Google Maps (http://maps.google.com / http://maps.google.co.uk) If you want to include a map of your business on your Contact Us page, why not make it an interactive Google map? Mine is at www.reedmedia.eu/contact as an example. Instead of a static map, visitors can zoom in and out, find directions, use Google Streetview where available, and even review your business! Even if you don't put a map on your site, it's worth listing your business in Google Maps, especially if you are a local business. It's free, and another way for people to find you.
These third-party web tools, and others like them, enable you to offer a much wider range of services than you could yourself. The subscription fees involved are modest compared to the time and money you would spend on building your own web functions—and some are free. Don't worry about looking "unprofessional" if you use these services—they are commonly used by even the biggest brands. Their level of specialty and ease of use makes these tools compelling and provide a better experience for your customers than you could build yourself.
Get social: build connections and community
Dynamic, changing content will make you look more up to date and more popular with search engines. Compelling content will keep people coming back for more. Third-party tools will extend your functions. But to really engage your clients and customers, you need to go where they are and start conversations with them.
"compelling content will keep people coming back for more"
In the relatively recent old days of "Web 1.0," businesses would put all their online marketing efforts into their website—if they even had one. Now this is an area where the 80/20 rule applies. Only 20 percent of your online marketing time should be spent on your core business website. The other 80 percent should be spent on your blog, your Facebook page, your Twitter feed, and other social sites. It should be spent connecting with people, creating community, and raising awareness of your brand. This "offsite" activity will draw people on to your website—but it is far more productive to engage with people there than on your own site.
This is what makes your website a marketing hub: at the center of the spokes that lead out to a variety of social sites. Spend time building your site, getting it right, and making sure it has all the key functions you need to do business—and keep it up to date—but then get out there, get social, and grow your business!
Measure your results
Website analytics
Your web stats, or web analytics, are the primary means by which you will measure the effectiveness of your website. All services available run on the same principle: You sign up for an account, tell it which website(s) you want to track, and it gives you some code to include on all the pages you want it to track. This is usually a simple matter of adding the code to your "footer" file and uploading it.
Google Analytics (www.google.com/analytics)
This is the most popular service, used on around 40 percent of the 10,000 most popular websites. It is free to use for up to 50 sites—so long as each site has fewer than five million page views per month or is linked to an AdWords campaign (see next chapter). It has great analytical tools and reports, detailing a wealth of information about site visitors. It also integrates nicely with AdWords campaigns, and helps you analyze the effectiveness of your landing pages and conversions from your Google ads.
Clicky Analytics (www.getclicky.com)
This is free to use for up to three sites, and then there are payment plans for up to 10, 30 or 100 sites, with their "Pro" account (up to 10 sites / $60 per year) being the most popular. It offers many of the same services as Google Analytics, but in real time, and provides details on every action by every visitor. I also like Clicky because it tracks traffic from around 60 social sites, and it will also keep track of the number of your RSS feed subscribers (through Feedburner) and track Twitter searches, all from the same dashboard.
Website rankings
You can also measure where your site ranks by signing up to Alexa (www.alexa.com) or the Google Toolbar, which includes the Google PageRank bar. You can also look at the rankings for any website—including your competitors.
Alexa Internet
This is the web traffic and ranking site that is a subsidiary of Amazon.com. Download their toolbar from www.alexa.com/toolbar. Once installed, the toolbar collects data on browsing behavior which is sent back to the website where it is stored and analyzed and is the basis for their web traffic reporting. You can use the toolbar to see how popular a website is, how many sites are linking to it, find sites that are similar to it, and even how it looked in the past using it's "Wayback" feature. You can also see what the hot pages and searches are on the Internet right now. Alexa rankings are often quoted to illustrate how popular a website is—for example, at the time of writing, Facebook has an Alexa ranking of 2 (i.e., the second most popular website in the world), YouTube 3 and Twitter 11. (You see why it's a good idea to be visible on these sites?)
PageRank
Is the Google algorithm that expresses Google's view of the importance of a particular webpage as a score out of 10 and is partly determined by the number of incoming links. Google interprets a link from page A to page B as a "vote" for page B. But the strength of that vote also depends on how important Google considers page A to be. We will look more at page rankings in the next chapter.
Inbound links
You can get a measure of your incoming links from your web stats and Alexa, and also use your web stats to see what search terms people are using to find you. In addition, you can use a free tool from HubSpot called Website Grader (http://websitegrader.com) to gain insights into how many inbound links you have, how many of your pages are indexed by Google, and suggestions for improving your website. You can also compare your data with those of your competition!
Take action
• Secure a domain name for your business.
• Decide whether to hire a designer or do it yourself.
• Set up your business website.
• Plan your design brief and content.
• Extend your functionality with third-party sites.
• Focus on building connections and community on social sites.







Chapter 4. Boost your search engine rankings: How to increase your visibility on Google
Now that you've built your website, people won't necessarily come. Not if they can't find you. And the main way people find you online is still via search engines. Without a website, you don't exist. Without a search strategy, you exist but you're invisible. Google isn't the only search engine—others are available, including Yahoo!, Bing, and Ask. But Google is so big it has become a verb—and has a market share of over 70 percent as of February 2010. Nor is Google the only way people search for what they want online. People also search on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and other social sites they spend so much time on. Much of the rest of this book will help you to be found on these sites too, but being on these sites will also make you more visible on Google.
"without a search strategy, you exist but you're invisible"
People also discover sites through "social search," using sites like Delicious, Digg, and StumbleUpon, where it is people rather than machines and algorithms who decide which are the best sites and items of content by ranking, rating and sharing them. We will look more at social search and social bookmarking in Chapter 15. The principles in this chapter apply to all search engines, but we will pay particular attention to improving your visibility in Google.
What is search engine marketing?
How Google works
Google is the world's largest search engine. It does two things:
1. Crawls the Internet looking for web pages and indexes them in a vast catalog. It is no longer necessary to manually submit websites to Google—it happens automatically. Google will find your pages via incoming links from websites that are already indexed. This is one reason why you want other sites to link to yours. You can also manually submit your site at www.google.com/addurl if you want. This is the easy part.
2. Decides which are the best pages—both the best match for a search query, and the ones that have the best rank. Getting your pages to rank highly is the harder part, and is what search engine marketing (SEM) will achieve for you.
The decision-making algorithm that decides which pages are the best is based on two things: relevance and authority. The relevance of a page to the search query is simply based on the keywords used to perform a search. But since there are likely to be hundreds of thousands of pages that match, Google then ranks them in order of authority, using its PageRank algorithm.
This algorithm is based on work done at Stanford University on how to measure the authority of academic papers. The simple answer is: citations. The more a paper is cited by other papers, the more authority it has. But not all citations are equal: a citation from a paper that itself has a lot of citations carries more weight that a citation from one that has few or none.
This is exactly how the Google PageRank algorithm works. The more links there are from other websites to your website, the more authority your website has. But not all incoming links are equal: an incoming link from a website that itself has a lot of incoming links carries more weight than an incoming link from one that has few or none.
How search engine marketing works
Online marketing is all about making your stuff easy to find. Search engine marketing (SEM) is about making your stuff easy to find on Google and other search engines, by increasing the position of your placement on search engine results pages (SERPs). This is done via three methods:
1. Search engine optimisation (SEO)—making your website more attractive to Google
2. Paid placements—e.g., using Google AdWords
3. Attracting in-bound links—e.g., using article marketing.
The good news is that the first of these methods—SEO—is not only free but also more effective. If you can increase your natural or organic search engine rankings, i.e., without paying for them, people are more likely to click on them. Research shows that 75 percent of people using Google click on the natural search results, and 25 percent on the paid-for ads.
Google AdWords is still worth a look, though, and needn't cost a fortune. Your paid-for listings become cheaper and more effective the more specific to your business the search terms you choose are. Search engine marketing is affordable even for small businesses.
Part of the aim of your SEM is to get incoming links from high-authority sites in order to increase your authority and therefore your position on SERPs. We will therefore also take a look at article marketing in this chapter. This involves submitting content to high-ranking article sites such as Ezine (http://ezinearticles.com) in order to drive traffic back to your site and increase your credibility by positioning you as an expert in your field—but also to increase your authority with Google.
Like so much in the online marketing world, one of the best ways to encourage links to your website is to create great content. The content tools we will look at in Part 3 will help you create content for your website and for other social sites. Blogs in particular really help push up your search engine rankings. Of course, creating a remarkable business—what Seth Godin calls a Purple Cow—helps too!
"blogs in particular really help push up your search engine rankings"
Why search engine marketing works for business
How many times have you looked for something on Google today? How many other people out there are searching right now for products or services exactly like the ones you offer? How many will find your website? Most people—about 90 percent—don't get past page 1 of the search engine results delivered by Google. Getting a high placement on this page is critical to driving search engine traffic to your site.
A high placement can be paid for (though Google still selects the results it thinks will be most appropriate to the person searching, to maintain its own credibility), or achieved for free through SEO and getting links from high-authority sites.
For example, if you've just launched your website for your catering business and no one is linking to it yet, Google assigns a low authority to your pages. If you then start a blog, each post is a new page for Google to index. Food bloggers may find you and start linking to your blog posts. This will increase your authority and your position on Google. Then if a site such as the Observer Food Monthly website happens to have links to your site, your authority will skyrocket, since this site is a high-ranking website with lots of incoming links.
Google is a global site, but your business doesn't have to be global to benefit from it. People can choose to restrict search results to their own country for a start. But what if you're really local, and only really serve your local community? What if you're, say, a plumber who wants to focus on local work in your own town and the surrounding area? The traditional marketing approach would be to advertise in the local paper and perhaps print leaflets and go out putting them through your neighbors' doors.
"Google is a global site, but your business doesn't have to be global to benefit from it"
But a plumber is the sort of service you only need when you need it—it is not an impulse purchase. This means that you have to do repeat advertising every week in the local paper, and regular leaflet drops in order to get your phone number in front of your potential customers when they need you. That's going to be expensive.
If instead you have a website, people can Google you—the first port of call for many of us when we need a service. Make sure the locations you serve are on your website, so that searches for "plumber Oxford" (or wherever) come up. Google's maps and local business service make this even easier. If I simply search for 'plumber', Google supplies the page shown in Figure 4.1.

Figure 4.1 Google search engine results page
Now, there are almost 10 million results for such a common word, as you might expect. But Google has learned that I live in Woking, and has supplied the top seven search results nearest to me and shown them on an interactive map. For this reason, if you are a local business you must list yourself in what Google calls its "Local Business Center." It's free to do this at www.google.com/local/add.
Note that the top three search results, with shading behind them, and the eight results in the right-hand column, are paid-for Google Ads. This is indicated by the heading "Sponsored Links." The rest are natural, or organic, search results. Unsurprisingly a Wikipedia definition is top of this list, since Wikipedia is such a high-authority site with lots of incoming links.

Search Engine Marketing in Action: All Jigsaw Puzzles (www.alljigsawpuzzles.co.uk)
Starting from his back bedroom in 2001, Alan Maclachlan's passion for jigsaws has turned his business World Ideas Ltd into the UK's largest online supplier of jigsaws. Still a small family-run business, he nonetheless took their 200,000th order just before Christmas 2009 via his www.alljigsawpuzzles.co.uk website—one of several he runs. Type the very common word "jigsaws" into Google, and this website is likely to be at the top of the natural search results in the UK.
Both Google AdWords and natural search results form the basis of the company's marketing strategy. Keywords are searched for using the Google AdWords keyword tool, and they also use SEO techniques to make sure they are at the top of the natural search results. Alan says: "People who are already searching a product are halfway to committing to buy."
The company also aims for high-ranking websites to link back to their websites. This helps build authority and boosts rankings. They send articles to Ezine about once a week on a range of topics, of around 250-400 words each, all of which include their keywords in the title and two or three times throughout an article. They also include a clickable link in the author resource box at the end of each article back to the World Ideas site they are promoting. The effectiveness of this strategy can be measured, since Ezine give statistics on how many people view each article and click through from it. Alan and his team also submit articles to articlealley.com and articlebase.com. The team also use a blog, a newsletter and video to raise the profile of their websites.
Perhaps the most intriguing way World Ideas use search engines is for product development. They search for new products using the Google keyword tool, as well as drawing inspiration from visiting other websites and high street stores. They then look to see how many search results there have been for particular terms and the competition for the keywords. That's really putting the Google horse before the shopping cart—finding out what products people are searching for, and then developing them—and a great way to generate new product ideas.
Get the idea: Use search engine optimization, Google AdWords and article marketing in combination for best results. Use the Google Keyword Tool (www.google.com/sktool) to improve your Google AdWords campaigns but also to generate ideas for new products to develop.

Get up to speed with search engine marketing
There are three things you can do to get your SEM off to a great start:
1. Optimize your website.
2. Create a Google AdWords campaign.
3. Submit an article to Ezine.
Optimize your website
Get a natural high for your search results, for free, simply by taking a bit of time to make sure your website is as optimized as possible for search engines. SEO had a bad name in the early days of the Web, when it was too often thought of as tricking Google into giving you a high ranking. Well, Google is wise to that now and will soon boot you off if you try any of those "black hat" techniques such as hiding keywords invisibly on your website. Besides, that's not very authentic, is it? And you don't want traffic simply because you're top of the Google list—you want it because what you have to offer is relevant to what people are searching for. Google delivers the results that are the best match for its searchers, and you get visitors who are actually interested in buying from you. It's a win-win situation.
The first step is to make sure your website contains the right content and code for Google to know that your site is relevant to people searching on certain keywords. Things to pay attention to are
• Page titles—give each page its own title.
• Page descriptions—these show up in Google search results rather than on your site, and provide more information about your site.
• URLs—make sure they include keywords. Blogs are great for this as the title of the blogpost usually shows up in the URL.
• Website content—think about the headings you use, the text you use as links (choose something descriptive rather than "click here"), and tag your images with text that is visible to Google (but not to your visitors), so that it can "see" them.
Find out more about optimizing your site for search engines at www.getuptospeed.biz/seo.
Create a Google AdWords campaign
Google AdWords is an example of pay per click (PPC) advertising. Each time someone clicks on one of your ads that shows up on the "Sponsored Links" section of the Google results page, you pay a small fee. You may prefer to focus on boosting your natural search results for free with SEO. But it's worth trying Google AdWords, if only for short periods of time, particularly when you first launch your website and have no traffic, or whenever you launch a new product or service that you want to raise awareness of.
Sign up for an account at http://adwords.google.com and start creating your first campaign. Choose your ad text, the keywords you want to target (i.e., which search queries do you want Google to display your ad in response to?), and decide what your maximum bid is for those keywords. You can choose how much you pay and set a daily budget, but bear in mind that the whole system is a live auction, and someone may outbid you for a higher place, particularly with very popular, generic—and expensive—keywords. It is also possible that a keyword will suddenly become more popular, and the cost per click (CPC) will go up.
It makes sense to try to stick to more niche, specific keywords in your campaign for two reasons:
1. It's more effective—you will get more targeted traffic.
2. It's cheaper—common search terms are more expensive.
You get a very limited number of words for your ad—so choose them carefully! You can also set up multiple variations of the same ad, and test them against each other—Google will help you pick the best one with the metrics it provides.
You can also send people who click on your ad to a specific landing page, so you can measure its effectiveness. The URL doesn't have to match the home page URL shown on the ad—though it must be the same domain. For example, if someone clicks on the "Confused by Social Media?" heading in the ad here, they click through to www.reedmedia.eu/workshops. I could equally have used a unique landing page that was only used for that specific ad.

Figure 4.2 Google ad
In addition to textual ads, you can also opt for image ads in a variety of standard sizes, and even video ads.
The ads you create don't just show up in Google either. The flipside of Google AdWords is Google AdSense. That is an ad-serving service that enables anyone with a blog or website to earn a bit of cash by hosting contextually relevant Google ads on their pages. So your ads could show up on a wide variety of other sites too.
Choosing keywords
Think about what search terms people will use to find you, and include them in your AdWords campaign—as well as on your website. Most people take the products and services they offer as a starting point and think of all the keywords and search terms associated with them and then generate a list to use within the text of their website.
But the other way you can do this is to research the search terms people most often use in relation to your product or service. One way of doing this is to enter your web address into the Google search-based keyword tool at www.google.com/sktool. This will come up with keyword suggestions for you based on pairing the content on all your pages with actual search terms that people use on Google. It will output a list of keywords in order of search volume: an instant, up-to-date keyword list customized to your site.
"research the search terms people most often use"
You don't need to be logged in to AdWords to use this service—but if you are, you can incorporate any keywords from the suggested list right into your AdWords campaign.
For example, the Google search-based keyword tool revealed that some of the high-volume search terms I wasn't using for my www.smallbusiness studio.co.uk site related to business card designs and stationery. This is one of the services I offer through that site, but the service that is searched for more than any other. As well as giving me some ideas for tweaking my web copy and Google Ads, this also suggests I should perhaps focus more on that offering as part of the business, and/or use it as a way to draw people on to the site and up-sell other services. You can use research into search terms not only as a way of developing your web copy and Google Ads—but also as a way of developing your business.

Figure 4.3 Google keyword tool
Once your website is up and running, another thing you can do is to look at your web stats to see what search terms people are using to find you—and then tweak your keywords if it seems appropriate.
Note that this keyword research can also help you improve your web copy, titles, descriptions and headings, plus suggest topics to blog about, all of which will improve your natural search results without costing you a penny.
Submit an article to Ezine
Part of your SEM strategy is to get more incoming links from high-ranking websites. One way to do this is to create great content that people will not only find via search and social media, but will also want to link to. You can also ask people to link to you—but I would advise against this. I get link requests all the time, mostly from people who haven't understood what I do. I treat them as spam and delete them.
One way you might think you can create incoming links to your website is to comment on other people's blogs—particularly if they are high-ranking blogs or news sites—since you can usually enter your URL with your comment. While this can indeed be great for driving traffic to your website, I'm afraid it doesn't work for boosting your site's authority in Google's eyes. These links are not, after all, citations of your website by an independent third party, as PageRank intended—and Google is wise to it. To get around this issue, the "no-follow" attribute for certain links was invented. When Google sees a "no-follow" link, it knows that the site owner doesn't want to endorse the site being linked to. This applies to most blogs.
An exception to this is article sites such as Ezine (http://ezinearticles.com)—sites that you can submit content to with a by-line and a biography box with a ("do-follow") link back to your website. Ezine is a high-authority site and links back to your site will increase your authority. People reproduce Ezine articles on their own blogs and websites—on the condition that they are reproduced in full with full credit to the author complete with byline, bio and link—so Ezine is used by both content creators and consumers.
A note of caution, though: please don't use these sites cynically by putting up poor-quality articles with links. They are not just about link-building, and they shouldn't be thought of as an acceptable face of the old "black hat" technique of link farms: they are also about sharing your knowledge, building your credibility, and positioning you as an expert. Like blog comments, you should expect to get traffic as a result. Unlike blog comments, you will also get SEO credit for the links.

Quick Win: Use social media to increase search engine placements
A blog is one of the best ways of increasing your search engine results: you create more pages for Google to index, and more content that people will want to link to (see Chapter 6). But since other social sites, such as Twitter and Facebook are themselves high-ranking sites, why not create accounts for your business? If you can gain at least 25 Facebook fans, and if it's available, you can even have your own URL—such as www.facebook.com/publishingtalk. For me, this and the Twitter account http://twitter.com/publishingtalk are higher results for the search query "publishing talk" in Google than the www.publishingtalk.eu site itself.
Don't underestimate the power of social media to help you to be found—not just on social media sites themselves, but within Google. Having a presence on social sites help people to find your business—even if they don't use these sites themselves.

Measure your results
One way to measure the results of your SEM campaign is simply to look at your web stats and measure your web traffic. But your traffic is not entirely generated by Google—especially if you are using social media to drive people to your website—so you will need to dig a bit deeper into the stats.
• You also get a load of stats and metrics with Google AdWords to help you find out what's working and what isn't, and to help you improve your campaigns. If you use unique landing pages with your Google ads, you can also work out not only how much traffic is coming from your ads (which Google will tell you), but also how many visitors are converting into leads.
• Search Google yourself, using some of your chosen keywords, and note your natural search engine placements. If you're not coming as high up the list as you'd like, do something about it.
• You can also search Google for just the pages in your site, by entering "site:mybusiness.com." This will tell you how many pages of your site are indexed by Google—and which pages have the highest authority, since these appear top of the list.
• Finally, monitor the number of incoming links to your website. Part of your SEM strategy is to increase the number and quality of these, so this is something you should be vigilant about.
Take action
• Optimize your website for Google.
• List your business in the Google Local Business Center at www.google.com/local/add.
• Research your keywords with www.google.com/sktool.
• Sign up to Google AdWords and start your first campaign.
• Submit an article to Ezine.







Chapter 5. Engage with email: How to build an email list without annoying people
The word "spam," to mean unwanted junk email, derives from the Monty Python sketch of the same name. If you think email marketing involves sending people unsolicited Viagra ads, think again. Email is a tried and tested method for reaching the right people online and persuading them to take action.
You need very little technical knowledge to get started, since there are plenty of excellent third-party services you can use, such as MailChimp or Campaign Monitor, to handle everything from sign-up forms and email templates to managing mailing lists and measuring your results. This allows you to focus instead on your email marketing strategy: your marketing aims, who you will target, and what you will email them.
What is email marketing?
Email marketing is the online equivalent of direct mail. Although every email you send to a client or potential customer could be thought of as email marketing, it really means sending bulk emails to your email list, or part of your list, with aims that might include:
• Building your relationship with existing customers.
• Encouraging repeat business.
• Acquiring new customers.
• Persuading people to buy something.
When it is used with permission for building and maintaining relationships with your customers, email marketing is an efficient and powerful tool that needs to be part of your online marketing mix.
Why email marketing works for business
"Why bother with email in the social media age?," you may ask. "I've built up a massive opted-in mailing list on Facebook and Twitter—can't I just use that?" Well, yes, that is one of your aims for using social sites. And if you haven't yet built up a following, you'll find out how to in Chapters 10-13.
But there are three important reasons why email is still central to your online marketing even if you market your business on social networks:
1. You own the data. What happens if you get booted off Facebook, or if Twitter goes down at a critical moment? What if the entire social network you've been relying on goes under? If you've built up your own email list, this isn't a problem, as you, rather than a third-party site, own the data. Yes, build up your following on social networks—but also try to convert them to your mailing list subscribers.
2. It is a more appropriate sales channel. Not everyone likes being sold to on social networks. You need to use them with caution, keep your message relevant, and not just spam a social network with "buy my product" messages. We're much more used to email as a sales channel, however, and if we've given permission to be included on an email list, we expect to be sold to at least some of the time.
3. Not everyone uses a social networking site. And those who do don't necessarily log on every day. However, most people pick up their email every day.
One of your key calls to action on the social media channels you use should be "Sign up to our newsletter."

Email Marketing in Action: Stills (www.stills.org)
Stills is a small Edinburgh-based visual art gallery dedicated to exhibiting contemporary photography. As well as exhibitions, talks, and events, they also provide facilities such as darkrooms and equipment hire and offer training courses. Established over 30 years ago, they have more recently used online marketing and seen dramatic results—particularly with email marketing, which has resulted in a massive jump in sales and increase in attendance.
Stills previously relied on direct mail, and supplemented this by sending hand-crafted emails to a subset of their physical mailing list. In 2007 they switched to a professional email service provider (ESP)—and saw the results from the moment they sent their first e-flyer. They now send two e-flyers per month to a growing list of over 4,000 subscribers, where previously they sent only four a year to less than 2,000 people. Generally, one e-flyer is about exhibitions, the other about courses. Using an ESP means they can easily ask people at sign-up which sort of e-flyer they're interested in receiving, and send e-flyers to subsets of their main list. They have recently switched to MailChimp as their ESP, since online sales of courses, space and exhibition publications are becoming more important, and MailChimp integrates nicely with other third-party services such as PayPal.
Stills built their list primarily through their website, by making "Join our mailing list" a prominent call to action. The website already received a lot of traffic, so this was a key driver of sign-ups.
The organization can have a closer relationship with its core user base by using email and social media. Stills's Development Manager, Carrie Maginn says: "Marketing is not just about giving information out—it is about listening and responding. It's a dialogue, not a monologue. And that's a lot more fun and more rewarding."
Stills have also been using social media since 2009, particularly Flickr, Blipfoto and YouTube for content, and Facebook and Twitter for outreach. Facebook is used to promote events, and time-limited incentives appear on Twitter, such as "DM us by 2pm today for a free darkroom session." Importantly, social media supports and enhances their email marketing, since an exhibition or course will be simultaneously promoted by email, on the website and on Facebook and Twitter. This encourages word of mouth marketing which, along with email, is their biggest driver of sales.
Carrie says: "Whether you like it or not, you've got to use online marketing. In the current climate there is no money—and this is free. If you invest time in understanding it and its benefits, and do it well, the ROI is there—you can see it."
Get the idea: Use a professional ESP to grow your list. Use MailChip to integrate with other software such as PayPal. You can even segment your MailChimp lists by purchase activity using their E-Commerce 360 plugin (www.mailchimp.com/plugins/e-commerce-360), which integrates with Magneto, PrestaShop, osCommerce and ZenCart e-commerce software. You know how Amazon send you up-selling emails saying "If you liked X, you might also like Y?" You too can do that by integrating your ESP with other software.

Get up to speed with email marketing
1. Choose an email service provider (ESP).
2. Build your list.
3. Plan your campaign.
4. Write your first email.
Choose an email service provider
Don't even think about using your own email account to send mass mailings. For one thing, it only takes a low percentage of people to classify your mail as junk to give you real problems, possibly including suspension of your email account. A professional email service provider (ESP) will help you comply with legal requirements, since they generally adopt best practices, such as double-opt in systems and "unsubscribe" links in each email footer. These services will also help you manage and maintain your email list database, including enabling you to split it into segments for highly targeted campaigns. But the other huge advantage is the detailed reporting statistics that they provide, which would be almost impossible for you to replicate in-house. These include how many people have opened your email, and how many have clicked through to specific links you included in your email.
"don't even think about using your own email account to send mass mailings"
Popular ESPs include
• Campaign Monitor (www.campaignmonitor.com)
• Dotmailer (www.dotmailer.com)
• Emma (www.myemma.com)
• MailChimp (www.mailchimp.com)
• Short Burst (www.shortburst.co.uk).
These services all work in a similar way:
1. Upload your email contact list if you have one already and manage your lists and sublists via the service.
2. Create an email newsletter sign-up form—usually a simple matter of choosing which fields you want to include—then copy the code provided and paste it into your website or blog. People who sign up using this form will be added to your mailing list. Most services will also allow you to customise the "Thank you for signing up to our mailing list" messages, including the emails that go out asking people to confirm their subscription if you choose a double opt-in system. You can also use these confirmation messages to include a link to, say, a free downloadable resource that you offered as an incentive for signing up. Other "autoresponders" are often available too. For example, to automatically send a message a specific time after someone has signed up.
3. Choose a ready-made email template or design your own. The amount of customization available varies with each ESP.
4. Create a "campaign"—i.e., a specific mailing. Write your email, test it by sending to yourself, then send it to one of your lists or sublists.
5. Measure your results. Whichever service you choose will provide detailed metrics on who has received, opened, taken action, and clicked through to specific links within your email.
Build your list
Now that you've got a service provider, complete with a database to hold all those email addresses, how are you going to populate it? I would advise against buying in a list. Apart from risking contravening the increasingly strict laws about email marketing, it is cheaper and more effective to build your own. Email marketing should be about building relationships with people who actually want to hear from you.
Get permission
The overriding principle is you MUST get permission. Effective email marketing is permissions-based marketing—not spam. If people sign up to your list, they know to expect email from you. They are more likely to be interested in your email, and it is less likely to end up in their spam folders. Ideally, use a double opt-in system. This sends an email to someone who has signed up to your newsletter asking them to click on a link to confirm their subscription.
Create a sign-up form
This is very easy—no knowledge of HTML is required. Whichever email marketing service you use, a standard feature is the generation of an email newsletter sign-up form that you can put on your website or blog. Just choose the fields you want and copy and paste the code.
Make "Sign up to our newsletter" your number one call to action
Your email newsletter sign-up form is the most important call to action on your website and should be in a prominent position on your home page, your newsletter page if you have one, and ideally on other key pages. But you can also use it as a call to action in any form of online marketing you use, including on your blog, your podcast, and on Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn.
Offer an incentive
Create a white paper, a short ebook, or other downloadable resource that your community will value. Give it away for free—or, rather, sell it for the price of an email address. This can be an effective way of kick-starting your list since there are many other channels through which you can market your free resource—such as your Twitter, Facebook or LinkedIn lists, on your website, and using Google AdWords.
Ask in person
Whenever you take a business card from someone, whether a prospective client, someone you meet at a networking event, conference or trade show, ask them if you can add them to your newsletter. You can sign them up manually to your list as long as you have their permission. And if you use a double opt-in system, they can always change their minds.
Provide an example
To show prospective subscribers exactly what they are signing up to, include a link to your latest newsletter, or include an image of it on your newsletter page.
Plan your campaign
As with all of your marketing activities, decide on your objectives. Selling might be one of them—but it is not the only thing email marketing can be used for. Some of your emails may not be directly sales-related, but draw people on to your website or promote your products or services more indirectly. Your content and style may vary accordingly.
A "campaign" in email marketing usually means a specific, single mailing. But it can also be used to describe your overall approach over a longer period of time. Types of email you might send include
Special offers
A very common way to use email marketing, and an incentive for people to sign up to your list, is to make promotional offers available exclusively to subscribers. Use time-limited discount codes and measure responses with click-throughs (as measured by your email marketing service), unique landing pages (as measured by your web stats), or simply by using a unique discount code for each campaign.
Quick announcements
Sometimes called postcard emails, these are brief announcements with a single call to action that might relate to a time-restricted sale or special offer.
Customer surveys
Surveys can be used to gain feedback on your service or help develop new products (while at the same time raising awareness of your new product). They are easy to set up using www.surveymonkey.com, which also allows you to import an email list and manage responses—for example by sending a follow-up email only to those who haven't yet replied. Although your branding options are limited, the "from" field can be any email address you specify. Use the same email address you use for your normal marketing emails to maintain trust. Alternatively, you can send out a regular email to your list with a link to your survey; you just won't be able to send follow-ups to people who haven't completed it.
Press releases
If you have a discrete list of media contacts you've built up, this can be a useful way of distributing press releases with a view to getting media coverage. Include links to the virtual press room on your website.
Newsletters
Possibly the most common form of email marketing is a regular newsletter that is sent to your entire list. An email newsletter is a "softer" way of selling. It can be a powerful way of keeping in touch with your clients and customers without annoying them with constant sales messages. The purpose of an email newsletter is relationship building with previous, current, and prospective clients. The focus is on providing useful information in their niche field of interest—a similar approach that you would adopt with a blog (see Chapter 6). You might even include some excerpts from latest blog posts with a "read more..." link, in order to draw them on to your site. While the information is related to what you can offer, it is not a hard sell. It should, however, include a call to action.
Your newsletter may contain some or all of these:
• Useful information about your area of expertise.
• Latest news from your industry.
• Tips and "how to" features.
• Upcoming events, conferences, or trade fairs you will be attending.
• Special offers with discount codes exclusive to subscribers.
• Details of a new product you've launched and the key benefits it offers.
Write your first email
Keep your messages short and to the point, compelling, interesting, and valuable. Make sure they are personalized, relevant to the list or subsection of the list you are sending it to, get the right message to the right person, and include a call to action. If you have several sections in your newsletter, consider using extracts and "read more..." links to direct them to the full article on your blog or website. Think carefully about the individual elements of your emails, particularly:
• From. Send email from a person. It is more likely to be opened if the email address is recognised as a real person by the recipient, ideally from someone they are already used to receiving email from. This is easy to configure, whichever service you use. Just specify the "from" address you want.
• Subject. Grab attention but avoid any words that might get trapped by a spam filter. These includes "FREE!"
• To. As with your "from" field, all the emails in your database should be to a real person. Your email is unlikely to reach anyone if it is being sent to info@, sales@, etc.
• Body. The general rule for HTML emails is a maximum width of 600px, but your ISP should handle any formatting, size, and layout requirements. When it comes to composing your email, keep the information in short, bite-sized chunks with the most important information at the top of your email.
• Call to action. Don't confuse people with too many calls to action. If you can include one clear prominent call to action in each newsletter—perhaps a "buy now" button, or a link to "read more," "take our survey," "subscribe to our podcast" or whatever it may be—you are more likely to get click-throughs.
• Footer. Always be clear about how recipients can unsubscribe and put in all your contact information so people can get in touch with you and to meet any statutory requirements. The UK, for example, requires businesses to include their registered address and number on websites and emails as well as printed stationery.
Always send yourself a test email before mailing your entire list to make sure it looks as you intended and there are no glaring errors or omissions.

Quick Win: Use FeedBurner to create an email newsletter from your blog
If you have a blog, it automatically comes with an RSS feed. That stands for Really Simple Syndication and is simply a way for people to subscribe to your latest blog posts in a newsreader such as Google Reader. But if you manage your feed through a free service called www.feedburner.com, you have additional options for the way you deliver your blog feed—including delivering latest posts by email. This means you can set up an ad-hoc email newsletter from your blog if you're not yet ready to take the plunge with MailChimp, Campaign Monitor, or one of the other professional email marketing services.
• Create a separate "newsletter" category within your blog (which will generate its own RSS feed)—or consider your entire blog your newsletter.
• Use FeedBurner to create a feed—for your blog or for the discrete newsletter category you created.
• On the FeedBurner site, click the Publicize tab and then the Email Subscriptions link in the left-hand menu.
• Two alternative pieces of HTML code are supplied: a sign-up form or a simple link. Use this on your blog or website.
• Click the Email Branding link to choose the text and link colors your email will use and the logo you want to appear on it.
• To see the email addresses of people who have subscribed to your RSS feed by email, click the Analyze tab and the See more about your subscribers link. Scroll down, beneath the pie chart, to Email Subscription Services. Click FeedBurner Email Subscriptions and then Manage Your Email Subscribers List. You will see a list of email addresses of people who have subscribed to your RSS feed. You can export these if you wish.
The advantages of this approach, if you already have a blog, is that it is an incredibly easy way to set up an email newsletter. The downside is that, although you have access to the list of email addresses, you can't send a message to them without creating a new blog post. This means you can't make special offers available to subscribers only—since everyone can see your newsletter on your blog. You also don't have access to the metrics you have with an email marketing service. This is really just an alternative way of delivering your latest blog posts to those who prefer to receive them by email instead of visiting your site. But it can be a useful halfway house between a blog and a newsletter. It is certainly a great way of promoting your blog.

Figure 5.1 Feedburner email subscriptions

Manage the workload
Plan your emails in advance and consider theming them around specific topics, products, or services and tying them into other areas of your online marketing such as the schedule for your blog or podcast. This will help you stay focused on specific promotions you want to do throughout the year, and help you repurpose material. Include excerpts from your latest blog posts with "read more..." links to lead them back on to your site.
Consider getting some help with your email marketing. A virtual assistant or other outsourced professional can help you create email templates, write copy and manage your lists. There are plenty of people who are very experienced with all the major ESPs such as MailChimp and Campaign Monitor. See Chapter 16 for advice on finding someone.
Measure your results
One of the many advantages of using a professional email marketing service is that it comes with a wide range of stats and metrics. Most people will open your email—if they're going to—within a few days, so the feedback you get on your campaign (i.e., a single emailing) is fairly quick. Many services will present the information as pie charts or other graphical representations, in a sophisticated amount of detail. Information usually includes
• How many people opened your email.
• How many bounced.
• How many people classed you as spam.
• Who clicked on to your website from the email.
• Who clicked on specific links within your email.
• Which email clients your subscribers used, e.g., Outlook, Apple Mail, iPhone.
In addition, if you used any unique landing pages and URLs in the links in your emails, you will be able to track these via your web stats. All of this is vital information for following up leads and planning your next campaign.
Take action
• Choose an email service provider (ESP).
• Build your email list, making sure to add a sign-up form to your website.
• Plan your email marketing strategy.
• Create an engaging newsletter that provides value to your customers.
• Compose your first email and measure the results of your campaign.







Part Three: Get creative







Chapter 6. Build a blog: How to build trust, reputation, and traffic
According to The Cluetrain Manifesto (www.cluetrain.com), all markets are conversations. A blog is a great way to start a conversation. It is also your key content tool—and content is the starting point for the value you will add to your marketing activities. Yes, you want to get the word out about your product or service. But social media is also about creating genuinely valuable content that your community will appreciate and want to share. You need to create value—not just ask people to buy from you.
A blog can be the hub of your social media. You can use it to aggregate other media by including images, video, and audio as well as text. You can pull in feeds from other websites, such as your Twitter updates or your Flickr photos. And you can create feeds so that people can subscribe to your latest content. A blog is also the easiest way to set up a website: You can even use one as your main business site.
"a blog is also the easiest way to set up a website"
What is a blog?
A blog, short for "web log," is a kind of online diary. The author writes entries, or "posts" which have a date attached and appear in reverse chronological order—i.e., with the newest entry at the top. Pages can be added as well as posts, via a simple to use content management system. Blogs started as personal journals but have evolved into something far more powerful and useful for business.
There are a number of features of blogs that make them different from an ordinary, static website.
1. Sidebar. A blog will usually have one or two sidebars—a column or two, usually on the right hand side of the main part of the screen where your posts appear. This includes extra information such as your blogroll (see below) and links to latest posts and comments.
2. Categories. Posts are usually organized into categories to help people browse your content by topic.
3. Tags. These are keywords attached to individual posts and another way to navigate to the content that your readers are interested in. Many blogs include a "tag cloud" in the sidebar, which displays the most commonly used tags in different font sizes, with the largest being more popular.
4. Comments. Readers can usually write their own comments on your posts, below what you've written. Comments will usually include the commenter's name and link back to their own website or blog. This makes blogs a social medium—a two-way conversation and a forum for discussion and feedback, rather than a broadcast. Comments can be moderated before they go live.
5. Blogroll. A list of links to other blogs, which are in the same topic area as yours, or which you think your readers will also be interested in. These links between blogs can help drive traffic to them, particularly in a niche field.
6. RSS feed. RSS stands for "Really Simple Syndication," and is just a technical way of saying "subscription." It means people can click a special link to receive your latest posts as soon as they are published. There are a number of ways they can receive these—in an RSS reader, on a personalized home page—even by email. You don't need to worry about how it works, as it's a standard feature that comes with your blog. There are, however, things you can do to manage and promote your feed, which we will look at later in this chapter.
Crucially, a blog is a conversation—not a lecture. Don't just use a blog as a press-release delivery mechanism. It is far more than that. It is a way for you to start a discussion, provide useful information, and connect with your community.
Why blogging works for business
Blogs are no longer just personal diaries. The business case for blogging is compelling. With a blog you can
1. Build trust with your potential customers and clients. Today, trust is in "people like me" rather than in large organizations. We choose to do business with people we know, like, and trust. Your blog is an important way for people to get to know you.
2. Build an audience. One reason to start a blog—even before your business is properly up and running—is to start building an audience. Once you have a niche community following, you will be able to find a way to monetize them later—by selling them products and services that fit with their interests.
3. Increase search engine visibility. Google and other search engines love blogs. This is because of the way search engine algorithms work. Google believes a site is more valuable if it has regularly updated content—which a well-maintained blog has. It also prefers sites that other people link to—and people are more likely to link to specific blog posts than a static, brochure-style website. By writing about topical issues on your blog—such as the latest developments in your field or a conference you recently attended—you will be more findable because you will be writing about things people are more likely to be searching for. And finally, the more blog posts you write, the more pages you create for Google to index. These things combine to improve your natural search engine rankings.
4. Drive traffic to your business website. The search engine friendliness of blogs, combined with other ways you can market your blog, plus regularly updated, quality, topical content, will keep traffic coming to your blog. Ideally, your blog will be on the same domain as your business website and integrated with it—or at least have a prominent link to your business website.
5. Position yourself as an expert in your field. By writing insightful, quality posts and providing useful information to your community, you can become seen as an expert in your niche—whether that is tax law, flower arranging, or fishing.
6. Reach a wider market. More people can find you in more ways if you have a blog.
7. Create value for your clients or customers by providing useful content.
8. Learn from your customers by inviting comments and feedback from them. A blog can be useful for doing ad hoc bits of market research, and helps to keep you closer to your market so that you're more aware of what they want.
9. Create networking opportunities you never knew existed. It's not just clients and customers who will find you via your blog but also potential business partners. And if you successfully position yourself as an expert, you may even find that speaking, consulting, and writing opportunities come your way.

Blogging in Action: Stormhoek Wines (www.stormhoek.com)
Stormhoek Wines (www.stormhoek.com) is a small South African winery. They went from being a 50,000 case winery in 2005 to 280,000 cases in 2007 using a budget of less than £20,000—and the power of blogging.
They started a blog in 2005—though that wasn't their main strategy. They really wanted to engage with other bloggers, and having their own blog was a route to doing that. They used "blogger outreach" as their main strategy and offered a free bottle of wine to bloggers. They had certain criteria, such as targeting technology blogs, and blogs that were at least six months old. But the free wine got them talked about in the blogosphere, which pushed up their natural search engine rankings, made them more visible, and gave their sales reps a nice story to tell to wine merchants. It also increased sales.
They sent about 100 bottles to UK bloggers, 50 to Ireland, and a few to France, with no requirement to write positively about it—or indeed to write anything. But the bloggers did, motivated by a desire to write about an interesting "web 2.0" marketing experiment. They took the wine to geek dinners. They put pictures on Flickr. Word spread. It became the geek wine of choice. It became the Microsoft house wine. Stormhoek was the unofficial cult wine of Silicon Valley—despite being made 7,000 miles away instead of 30 miles down the road in Napa Valley. The campaign made the Advertising Age Marketing 50.
Hugh McLeod (http://gapingvoid.com), the ad-man turned professional blogger behind the campaign, describes the wine as a "social object"—something that may be digital, intellectual or physical, around which people gather to talk about. Hugh would go so far as to say we're not in the business of creating products any more—we're in the business of creating social objects.
Since then, their blog has become their main business website and includes prominent links to their social media presence on other sites: Facebook, Flickr, and YouTube.
Get the idea: You don't always have to start your own blog to benefit from the blogosphere. Do you have something you can give away? Find bloggers in your topic area using http://blogsearch.google.com and target the ones with a larger readership for a giveaway; or invite them to run a competition with their readers, with your product as the prize.

Get up to speed with blogging
First of all, familiarize yourself with the blogosphere by reading a few blogs to get the hang of the conventions, possibilities and styles. Search for blogs in your field at www.technorati.com or http://blogsearch.google.com. Subscribe to a few RSS feeds to get the hang of how these work. The blogs you discover at this stage will be useful later when you come to put together your blogroll and when you're looking for topics to write about.
Then take the plunge! Here are the steps you need to take to get your blog up and running—and other people reading it:
1. Choose a blogging strategy.
2. Create your blog.
3. Set up your RSS feed.
4. Write your first post.
Choose a blogging strategy
In order to get the most from blogging, it pays to spend a bit of time thinking about what you want to achieve. There is more than one way to benefit from the power of the blogosphere—and not all of them involve starting your own blog. You can, of course, use these in combination:
1. Start your own blog. This is the obvious strategy. But if you're not quite ready to jump into the blogosphere, but want to benefit from the power of blogging, try the following. These can also be used—and become more effective—when you have your own blog.
2. Comment on other blogs. Often overlooked, but an important way of raising your profile. If you read those related blogs you found, particularly those with a large readership, and make a considered, thoughtful comment on someone else's post, you've just contributed to a conversation and produced some useful content. Your comment will link back to your own blog or website and drive traffic to it. Do write something useful and interesting that contributes to the discussion, though—don't just try to sell something or say "visit my site." You probably won't get past the moderation controls—and it's just rude.
3. Go on a blog tour. This goes one step further than comments, as it involves writing actual posts on other people's blogs. Approach owners of blogs in your field and ask if you can write a guest posting. Pitch an idea or topic. If you write a post that is interesting and useful to that blog's readership, the blog owner is quite likely to welcome your contribution (it cuts down on his or her workload), and you benefit from exposure to a new audience and a link back to your own blog or website. The concept of a "blog tour" refers to a planned series of such guest postings on different blogs, usually over a limited time period leading up to a product launch, or to raise awareness of a new business, service, or website.
4. Blogger outreach. The approach Stormhoek Wines used. Possibly the least used approach, but can be an effective way to engage the blogosphere and get other people talking about your stuff, especially if you have a free sample you can give away.
Create your blog
Once you have a blog set up, it is incredibly easy to manage and maintain. The only technical bit is installing the platform in the first place, and this is the part you may need some help with if you're not a tech-head. There are a range of platform options, including Blogger, WordPress, Typepad, and Movable Type. I always recommend WordPress to my clients and use it on all my own blogs: It's free, robust, and endlessly customizable with "themes" (designs), "plugins" and "widgets" (which add extra functionality). Whichever platform you choose, your blogging options really boil down to two choices:
1. Hosted externally. If you use www.blogger.com or http://wordpress.com, you can be up and running in a few minutes. You don't have to worry about installing software, buying web space, or owning a domain name. This is the easy option, and worth considering if you just want to try out blogging to see if it's for you or if you don't yet have a website or domain name. The downside is that it looks less professional, and you're stuck with a domain name that has blogspot or wordpress in it, such as http://yourname.blogspot.com or http://yourname.wordpress.com.
2. Hosted on your own server. If you own some web space and have your own domain name (see Chapter 3), you can go to http://wordpress.org, download the latest copy of WordPress for free, and install it on your server. This not only looks more professional, but also means
• Your blog stays on your own business website—essential for driving web traffic to your business
• Your blog is customizable with a wide range of free or commercially available themes
• You can go a stage further if you wish and create an original theme—or have one created for you—so that your blog matches your business site or simply looks exactly as you want
• You have access to a vast number of plugins and widgets to extend the functionality of your blog.
If you start off with wordpress.com, you can always move to a wordpress.org blog later. It is even possible to migrate your content across from wordpress.com to wordpress.org.
The technicalities of WordPress installation are beyond the scope of this book. Some Internet service providers (ISPs) allow a one-click install of WordPress from your control panel, which saves the bother of installing it yourself. If you download the software from http://wordpress.org, you will need to ensure your server has access to the latest version of the programming language PHP and that you can connect the software to a MySQL database. If in doubt, ask your ISP.
You will also need to decide if you want the software installed in your "root" directory, e.g., www.mybusiness.com, or in a sub-directory such as www.mybusiness.com/blog. There is a view that you should always install it in the root to make your content easier for search engines to find—but I don't think this makes a lot of difference. What works less well is if you have your blog as a stand-alone site, apart from your business site, on a separate domain, such as http://mybusiness.wordpress.com or http://mybusiness.blogspot.com (blogs hosted on wordpress.com or Blogger), or www.myblog.com (a completely different domain name). Although you might get a lot of traffic to your blog, you're not driving traffic to your business website. There are ways around this, such as prominent links to your business site, and compelling reasons to visit it, such as special offers for blog readers—but it's more powerful to keep it all integrated on the same domain.
"what works less well is if you have your blog as a stand-alone site on a separate domain"
Think about whether your business blog is to be a discrete section of your website, or if you want your entire website to be a blog. There are advantages to the latter—the main one being that you can also use WordPress as a content management system. This means that in addition to adding and updating blog posts through a simple web-based interface, you can also add or update pages. All on your website, yourself, without needing any technical knowledge.
Widgets and plugins
WordPress widgets and plugins are additional bits of software that add extra functionality to your blog. They are usually free and are incredibly useful. Widgets usually appear in your sidebar and include functions such as your blogroll, a list of your blog authors, your latest tweets, or an RSS feed from another blog.
Widgets are for everyone, but plugins are only available to you if you use http://wordpress.org—the version that you download and host yourself—rather than http://wordpress.com—the version that they host for you. You can find a comprehensive directory of plugins at http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins. Some of the ones I find useful include
• Contact Form (http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/contact-form-7)—there are plenty of plugins out there that will enable you to include a simple contact form to a page on your blog. An easy way for people to get in touch with you.
• flickrRSS (http://eightface.com/wordpress/flickrrss/)—displays your Flickr photos on your blog.
• Sexy Bookmarks (http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/sexybookmarks)—will add social bookmarking buttons such as "Tweet this" to your blog posts. See Chapter 15 for more information.
• WordPress Audio Player (http://wpaudioplayer.com/)—with this plugin installed, the link to any MP3 file you include in a post or page will become a Flash media player, so that visitors can play an audio file directly from your blog. This is essential if you are delivering a podcast via your blog (see Chapter 7).
• WP-Cumulus (http://www.roytanck.com/2008/03/15/wp-cumulus-released/)—there are many plugins to display a "tag cloud" on your blog—a collection of your keyword tags with the more frequently used tags appearing larger. WP-Cumulus gives you a great, animated version, with your tags spinning in a 3-D globe.
• WP Status Notifier (http://wordpresssupplies.com/wordpress-plugins/status-notifier/)—a simple yet essential plugin if you run a multi-author blog, such as a business blog where a number of your colleagues contribute posts. It simply sends you (or another blog administrator) an email whenever a contributed post is pending your review and approval before it is published. Something you wouldn't otherwise know without this handy plugin.
Set up your RSS feed
One of the things that makes a blog a blog rather than an ordinary, static website is that your readers can subscribe to your latest postings. They do this through your RSS feed. This stands for Really Simple Syndication, and is a standard feature that comes with your blogging software. By clicking on an RSS icon on your blog or in the Web address bar, your readers will be taken to a page where they can opt to subscribe in whichever way suits them—say, by adding your feed to their favorite RSS newsreader, or to their personalized Google home page.
Why do you want people to subscribe to your RSS feed? Because it means they don't have to keep checking back to your blog to see whether or not you've posted anything new. This is especially important if you don't post very often! If people are subscribed to your feed, they will be alerted in a way that suits them whenever you post something new.
This comes with your blog and works automatically—you don't need to do anything. But you will have many more options if you sign up—for free—to www.feedburner.com. Not only do you get access to statistics about how many people subscribe to your feed, which posts are most popular and clicked on, but you also get a wealth of ways to promote your feed.
These include a counter to put on your blog, showing the number of your subscribers; some code to add to your blog to encourage people to subscribe at the end of every post; and, most usefully, an email delivery option (see Chapter 5).

Quick Win: Find topics to write about
You have your blog set up. Now, what are you going to write about? If you are a business-to-business (B2B) company, write about developments in the industry you serve. If you are business-to-consumer (B2C) company, what do your customers care about? You can write about your latest company news, products, and services—but it's best not to do this too often. Resist the urge to use your blog as a press-release delivery mechanism since that won't do a lot for your traffic. Rather than a hard sell, focus instead on useful information that your community will value and on what your target audience wants to read about.
Include plenty of keywords relating to your business and focus each blog posting on one topic. This will help your search engine rankings. Follow the journalistic principle of starting with the headline, getting the main story into your opening line and then get more detailed.
To find inspiration for topics to write about, do the following:
• Read other blogs and subscribe to the RSS feeds of ones that are relevant to you and your readers.
• Use Google Alerts (www.google.com/alerts) for email updates in your area of interest.
• Carry a notebook to jot down ideas as they occur to you.
• Be topical. If you write about, say, the latest Budget statement, or an industry awards dinner you attended, chances are people will be searching for information on that subject.
• Solve a problem for your readers. Any blog post that starts with the words "How to..." is usually popular.
• Create a list. Blog posts that start "10 ways to..." or "6 essential resources for..." are also popular.

Write your first post
WordPress comes with a powerful built-in text editor. Use it to create new blog posts and pages.

Figure 6.1 Write your first post
1. Add a title for your blog post. Be aware that this also appears in the permalink (the URL for the individual blog post), so will be the first thing search engines see. Make it relevant to your post and think about keywords.
2. Type your post directly into the text window. If you want to copy and paste from a Word document, you will need to strip out the hidden formatting tags that Word puts into documents since these will affect the look and format of your post on the blog. To do this, simply click the HTML tab, paste in your text, and then switch back to the Visual tab to continue editing. You can also use the HTML tab to enter HTML into your post.
3. To enter a link, highlight text you want to turn into a link and click the chain icon. Enter the full URL of the page you want to link to and a title for the link (optional—this displays when someone hovers over the link). Click update.
4. To enter an image, click the "Add an image" button next to the Upload/Insert menu just above the text editing window. You can also use the icons here to upload video, audio, or other media.
5. To add a video from YouTube, simply copy and paste the embed code supplied by YouTube for the video you want into the HTML window.
6. When you have finished creating your post, add it to a Category. The default category for blog posts is "Uncategorized." By putting your blog posts into meaningful categories (you can choose more than one for a single post), you create another way for people to navigate to the content they want.
7. Add tags—keywords that describe what your blog post is about—to further help people to find your post.
8. Once you've finished, you can save your post as a Draft, Preview how it will look before publishing, or hit the Publish button to publish it now. If you want to publish it at some point in the future, just amend the publication date settings. This is useful if you want to write several posts at once, and release them over time—perhaps while you are away.
Manage the workload
In 2008, the New York Times identified a phenomenon called "death by blogging"3—exhausted bloggers in digital sweat-shops trying to keep up with the constant demand of the always-on Internet economy for fresh news, insight, and comment. Some people will tell you that you need to update a blog daily for it to be of any value. How on earth can you keep up?
Stop. Take a deep breath. Relax. It doesn't have to be that way. First of all, you don't need to blog every day. Yes, you need to maintain the freshness of your content to keep people coming back, and keep the benefit of those search engine results. But if you neglect your blog for a few days—even a few weeks—it's not a disaster. Blogging is a bit like gardening. You do need to water your plants regularly—but you can leave them a while before they start dying. It's also authentic to blog when you have something to say, rather than to force yourself to write something—anything—just to fill space.
"you don't need to blog every day"
That said, those plants—and your blog traffic—will eventually wither and die. So how will you find the time to keep your blog up to date?
1. Schedule time for blogging. Easier said than done, but you should set aside some time for updating your blog as you would for any other marketing activity—either daily or weekly, depending on how often you plan to write.
2. Batch process your posts. Write a number of posts in one go and then schedule them to appear over the next several days or weeks. With WordPress, you can set blog posts to publish on a specific date and time in the future.
3. Write short posts. You don't have to write a 2,000 word essay all the time. Break up long posts into chunks and publish them over several days. People prefer to read material on the Web in bite-sized chunks. You might consider writing one longer post, such as a feature or "think piece" once a month—and write shorter posts the rest of the time.
4. Re-blog other people's posts. Scan the latest blog posts in your topic using your RSS reader, or cast an eye over your Twitter friends to find interesting relevant blog posts. You don't always have to write original material yourself. You can highlight an extract from someone else's blog—making sure you credit the author and link to the full post, of course. You may want to add some words of your own, providing your take on the subject, and contextualizing it for your readers. This is more useful than just posting links to other blogs.
5. Save time with Zemanta. As well as allowing readers to re-blog extracts from the front end, a plugin called Zemanta (www.zemanta.com) gives you a bit of editorial help in the back end. As you write, it will automatically suggest links, images, and related blog posts that you can add to your post with a single click.
6. Dictate your posts. If you really want to speed things up, why not invest in some dictation software? Mac Speech Dictate is excellent for the Mac; or try Dragon NaturallySpeaking for the PC. Bloggers tend to have a conversational style, after all.
7. Don't do it all yourself. Invite other people in your business to write blog postings. This shares the workload and involves and engages them. You may want to invite external people to do an occasional guest blog spot. Multi-author blogs are easy to manage with WordPress. You can even outsource your blogging and have someone ghost-write posts for you. Check out www.elance.com as a starting point. Is this authentic? It's a debatable point. I've never done it—though I know respected bloggers who have, and I wouldn't rule it out. I think that, so long as you see and edit these posts before you publish them, and ideally put them in your own voice, it's no less authentic than a newspaper editor commissioning an editorial. You will have, after all, briefed on the topic—the research and writing just happens to have been done by a freelancer. You're still providing valuable content to your readership in the niche topic area you have identified. And it's better than blogging yourself to death or neglecting your blog for months because you're too busy.
Measure your results
1. Web stats. Look at your website analytics package, such as Google Analytics or Clicky, to analyze how much traffic you're getting and from where. Spot which are the most popular posts and write more of them.
2. Feed stats. Look at your statistics in www.feedburner.com, for a breakdown of who is accessing your RSS feed and how. You may want to include a counter of subscribers on your blog—if your numbers are impressive enough.
3. Rankings. Look at where you site ranks by topic on www.technorati.com.
4. Conversational index. I started this chapter by describing markets as conversations, and blogs as conversation starters. Well, you can measure the level of conversational engagement your blog has. Your conversational index is the number of blog comments divided by the number of blog posts. You're aiming for a number above 1 with this one. WordPress will display a count of these in your back-end dashboard. If you're so minded, you could even use this measure over a discrete time period or for a specific category.
Take action
• Subscribe to a few blogs in your area to familiarize yourself with the blogosphere. Find these using http://blogsearch.google.com.
• Create your blog using WordPress.
• Manage your RSS feed by signing up to www.feedburner.com.
• Find some topics to write about.
• Write your first post!
• Market your blog by pulling it into the Notes function in your Facebook page (see Chapter 11) and automatically tweeting your blog posts using www.twitterfeed.com (see Chapter 13).







Chapter 7. Podcast for profit: How to attract an audience of loyal listeners
Podcasting is an intimate medium—like radio—and a way of building loyal relationships with your audience as well as conveying useful information and promoting your business without a hard sell. The barriers to producing both audio and video have plummeted in recent years. You no longer need expensive equipment to create these engaging forms of media, a license to deliver them to your audience, or a vast audience to be profitable. Just a niche topic area, something useful to say, and a willingness to communicate.
What is a podcast?
The term "podcast" was coined as recently as 2004, by John Ben Hammersley in the Guardian newspaper. It is a portmanteau of the words "pod," from iPod, and "broadcasting." The word is a little misleading, however, since you don't need an iPod or any MP3 player to listen to podcasts: About half of those who listen to them do so from their computers. Despite the radio show format many adopt, it is also not broadcasting either—quite the opposite, in fact, since podcasts reach niche audiences rather than the mass market. The term "narrowcasting" is more appropriate.
Another thing a podcast is not is a static audio file on a web page. The thing that turns audio files into podcasts is the ability to subscribe to new episodes as they are released, like a magazine. This is achieved by wrapping the audio files in an RSS feed. That sounds frighteningly technical—but isn't. It just means you deliver them on a blog.
When someone subscribes, using a service such as iTunes, new episodes are downloaded when they are ready, and can be listened to from your computer or portable MP3 player. This makes them "time-shifted media"—unlike a radio show that you have to tune in to at a specific time, a podcast can be listened to whenever and wherever suits the listener. Shows may be regular, e.g., weekly—or you may choose to do a limited run of a few shows leading up to a product launch or event.
Podcasts can also be video files—sometimes called vodcasts. We will concentrate mainly on audio in this chapter, and there is more information on video production in the next chapter.
Podcasts are usually free, but it is also possible to charge for them. However, if you are using a podcast to market your business, it is best to keep it free and not even charge the price of an email registration. You want to build an audience, not barriers.
Why podcasting works for business
Podcasts have the power to create a bond between you and your customers. Nothing engages your customers like audio and video. Speaking to people directly helps build trust, convey information, and articulate what your business has to offer in a far more effective way than reading brochure text on a website.
"nothing engages your customers like audio and video"
A podcast is also another way for people to discover you since people search on iTunes and other directories for podcasts in their area of interest. By connecting with this community of interest, you can generate customer loyalty—and new business.
Podcasting works for your business by creating a community around it, based on the usefulness of the information you share with potential clients and customers. This also positions you as an expert in your field and someone who is committed enough to it to put on a show. It is important to use podcasting in this way, rather than as a sales pitch. This is not the place to sell your wares. If you want to do an audio ad, call your local radio station. A podcast, like other forms of social media, should focus on your audience and providing them with something of value. Include a call to action, and the sales will come later.
A podcast, like a blog, is a content tool that becomes more powerful the more content you add. A regular podcast, like a regular blog, builds up a back catalog of information that people will keep discovering. And since each episode of your podcast will be delivered on a separate page of your blog, along with show notes and possibly even a transcript, there is plenty of textual content and links for search engines to index too.

Podcasting in action: Wiggly Wigglers (www.wigglywigglers.co.uk)
Heather Gorringe runs a small organic gardening mail order company called Wiggly Wigglers from her farm in Herefordshire. They sell things like wormeries, live mealworms, and bird seed. In 2005, they abandoned traditional marketing in favor of a blog, an email newsletter, and a weekly half-hour podcast that attracts thousands of listeners around the world. They have since also taken advantage of Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter. The shift to online marketing saw their marketing costs plummet to a fraction of their traditional marketing costs and increased their reach.
The podcast has been their most successful marketing tool and has won them awards such as Best Gardening Podcast in 2007. The secret of its success is its niche subject matter shared with passion. Alongside Farmer Phil, Richard, and Monty, Heather covers issues such as the environment, wildlife, gardening, farming, and biodiversity with lots of personality and very little selling. While she does sometimes mention special offers and latest products, the focus is much more on communicating organic gardening tips, and banter with her colleagues—information her community of interest find useful, and an informal style they connect with. It leads people back on to the website, which she mentions on the podcast.
The show has a lot of fans, and she includes them in the show, regularly playing in voicemails from listeners and reading out emails. There's a real sense of community that has built up around her business, which would never have been possible with a magazine ad. Heather had tried magazine ads during their traditional marketing years, but ads cost a fortune and are only there once, in one issue. With a podcast, you're up there forever. People still discover her through podcasts she did years ago. She reaches a huge global audience and has been featured in places such as the San Francisco Chronicle.
Thanks to their online marketing efforts, delivered in an authentic, engaging style, Wiggly Wigglers have not only built a successful business on a budget but also won awards, including recognition by Dell as the number one small business in the UK in their 2008 Small Business Excellence Awards.
Get the idea: You don't need a qualification in radio production or a recording studio to make great, engaging audio. Convey your passion, learn as you go along, and involve your audience. Use your podcast to communicate useful information, rather than sales messages. Build community, and the sales will come later.

Get up to speed with podcasting
Podcasting can seem an intimidating social media tool to use, as there is more to it than starting a Facebook group or setting up a blog. But it is really not that scary if you approach it with the same principles as other forms of social media. Think about what valuable, useful content you can provide. Focus on your audience, be relevant, authentic, and informal and include a call to action at the end. Don't go for a hard sell—think infotainment rather than infomercial, and leave them wanting more.
The technical aspects are also fairly straightforward if you follow these steps: plan, record, produce, deliver, and promote.
1. Plan your podcast—choose a style and format.
2. Record your podcast—choose your equipment.
3. Produce your podcast—editing, post-production and music.
4. Deliver your podcast via your blog.
5. Promote your podcast—get listed in iTunes.
Plan your podcast
What sort of podcast are you going to produce? What works well in your market? Start with a search in iTunes for keywords in your field and see what podcasts are available. Subscribe to those that interest you. iTunes has a dedicated section for video podcasts too—have a look there if you're considering video podcasting.
Audio or video?
One of your first decisions is whether to produce an audio or video podcast. This might partly be constrained by available budget since audio podcasts are generally cheaper to produce. But they also work well for communicating knowledge. If your content is primarily interviews, you may as well do an audio podcast rather than a video with talking heads. Video podcasts work well when there is a practical, visual element to what you want to communicate. If your content is based on tutorials, you can also produce a video podcast cheaply by using some software called Camtasia to record PowerPoint slides, or whatever you're doing on-screen, for example to illustrate how to use software or web services. The video tutorials for this book are an example of that.
Choosing a style and format
For a video podcast based on online tutorials it's fine to do the voiceover yourself, but for an audio podcast it is more interesting for the listener to have a co-host than just to talk at people yourself. Interviewing guests also breaks things up and adds new voices.
Have a listen to some podcasts in your area, or just those whose style you like. You don't have to copy your competition, but if you find a style you like, feel free to adapt it for your niche. Do you want to do a magazine-style show with co-hosts and interviews like the Guardian Media Talk podcast, for example? Listening carefully to well-produced shows like this will give you some clues as to where to play in the intro music and ideas like highlighting forthcoming interviews with some extracts at the top of the show.
"have a listen to some podcasts in your area"
How long should your podcast be? The received wisdom, based on various surveys, has tended to be an absolute maximum of 20-30 minutes for an audio podcast and 5 minutes for a video podcast. Shorter is generally better with podcasting, however—people have short attention spans online, and even 3-5 minutes for an audio podcast may be sufficient. However, this isn't right for every audience. Invite feedback on your first few episodes, and your audience will soon tell you if they think it's too long or too short.
Once you start podcasting, don't feel you have to stay on a treadmill of producing half an hour every week forever. You can also do a limited-run podcast of, say, four to eight episodes leading up to a launch or event; or do your podcasts in seasons of six episodes at a time. Survey your audience to find out what works for them—but also plan your podcasting to fit realistically with the demands of your business.
Podcasting styles include round-table discussions, a single interview each episode, and a magazine-style program with several segments that are common to every show. Plan your format as you might for a radio or TV program. For example:

Then sketch out a grid to plan your shows in advance. You can record some items in advance—just keep a note on your grid of which things are yet to be recorded. Think about your timing at this stage too. For example:

Record your podcast
You don't need to hire a recording studio to capture good-quality audio. The quality of your microphones is the most important factor.
Hardware
Clip-on tie microphones offer good quality, especially for round-table discussions. For recording yourself directly on to your computer, use a microphone that plugs into your computer's USB port rather than one with a standard jack—the quality is much better. You can pick up a good USB microphone, such as the Samson C01U USB Studio Condenser Microphone, for about $100.
The M-Audio Microtrack 24/96 or Zoom H2 Handy Recorder (both about $200) are used by many podcasters—useful for recording interviews on the move.
Interviews
Interviews are a great way of providing useful information and new perspectives to your listeners. You can do interviews in person or using free Internet telephony such as Skype (www.skype.com) with a recording application called Pamela (www.pamela-systems.com).
Give your guests a fighting chance by giving them some idea of what you want to ask them first—a list of questions or topics in advance. That doesn't mean that you should script your podcast or that you can't explore other questions and topics that arise during the conversation—it just primes your guest on what to expect and helps them prepare their thoughts. It will produce a more useful interview from a more confident guest.
It's usually a good idea to have your guests sign an interview release. You can do this electronically using a WordPress plugin that you can find at http://mwgblog.com/archives/2007/01/01/podcast-release-wordpress-plugin. Bear in mind general journalistic guidelines and ethics when interviewing. See the UK Press Complaints Commission's "Editors' Code of Practice" at www.pcc.org.uk/cop/practice.html for an example of this. Above all, don't record people without their permission.
Produce your podcast
Once you have recorded your audio content, in the form of interviews and discussion, it's time for post-production. This means editing out pauses and mistakes (don't over-edit, though), piecing together your different items and interviews, adding any music and sound effects, and exporting the whole thing as an MP3 file.
Audio editing software
To edit your audio, use some great free software called Audacity for the PC or Mac (http://audacity.sourceforge.net). Mac users can also use Garageband (www.apple.com/ilife/garageband). Audacity is very powerful and can be used to work on multiple, overlapping tracks on a single timeline—such as your introduction, interviews and music—and then combine them into a single file. See the website at www.getuptospeed.biz/audacity for video tutorials on getting started with Audacity.
Music
You can't just include any music from your CD collection—that's illegal! Make sure you have permission to use any music you need. Music Alley (www.musicalley.com - formerly the Podsafe Music Network) is a good place to find licensed music. However, for an opening theme tune, I recommend AKM Music (www.akmmusic.co.uk)—a great source of affordable, licensed music used by big brands and broadcasters such as the BBC. With a large database of music categorized by style, you're sure to find something appropriate that fits your "audio branding." For free sound effects, try Soundsnap (www.soundsnap.com).
"make sure you have permission to use any music you need"
Output
Output your finished work as an MP3 file. You can do this with Audacity, but you will need to install something called a LAME MP3 Encoder first. This is free, and instructions are supplied by Audacity. Be sure to add ID3 tags to your MP3 file too—these specify information that is contained within your audio file such as genre, author, and title. Do a search for "ID3 tag editor" to find free software you can use to do this.
Deliver your podcast
Host your audio files
Now that you've created your MP3 audio file, it's time to share it with the world! The first step is to host it on a website. You have two options here:
1. A podcast hosting service—there are various services that will host your audio or video podcast for you, such as www.libsyn.com and www.hipcast.com. These will also provide statistics, including number of downloads.
2. Your regular web hosting service—just upload your audio files to your normal web server in a separate folder called "podcasts." You will be able to access statistics from your web-stats package.
Whichever option you choose, you will have access to more detailed information on your subscribers via your Feedburner account.
Create a blog or a blog category
Next, you need to deliver your audio files on a blog. Create a new blog post for each podcast episode, either on a blog dedicated to your podcast, or on your business blog with a "podcast" category. Include a title and show notes. These should comprise a short paragraph explaining what is on the episode, a list of topics or items covered with timings, and links to any websites mentioned.
Don't forget to create a link to the MP3 audio file you uploaded and make sure it can be played on the page. Use a blog theme or WordPress plugin (such as WordPress Audio Player—http://wpaudioplayer.com) that automatically turns links to audio files into a media player so that people can listen to your podcast directly from your website without having to download it first.
Create an RSS feed in Feedburner
Whether your podcast is delivered on a dedicated blog or a discrete category of your main blog, an RSS feed will be created for it. However, don't use this as the main feed for your podcast, such as the one you submit to iTunes. Create a new feed in Feedburner first.
This is as simple as it is to create a Feedburner feed for your blog—just make sure you check the "I am a podcaster" box when you set up your feed in order to access the additional options you need for a podcast feed.
"make sure you check the 'I am a podcaster' box"
Select the "include iTunes podcasting elements" in Feedburner and add the data iTunes requires there. Additional items you need to include in your RSS feed, to provide the data that iTunes and other directories require, include a category, subcategory, description, and keywords for your podcast. You also need a "podcover"—a 300 × 300 pixel .jpg graphic that is the equivalent to a record sleeve or book jacket for your podcast. Enter a weblink for this in the image field.
If you use the PodPress plugin in WordPress, this data will already be included in your feed, and you won't need to enter it into Feedburner.
Feedburner will provide you with the same range of statistics and promotional tools, including subscription by email, as you get for a standard blog feed.

Quick win: Create an instant podcast with AudioBoo (http://audioboo.fm)
AudioBoo launched in 2009 and is best thought of as "audio Twitter." It is a very easy way to create short audio files (up to 5 minutes long) from your iPhone or computer and share them with your community. You can automatically tweet your "boos" and share them on Facebook. What's more, people can subscribe to your boos in iTunes, making it an easy way to create an instant, ad hoc podcast without worrying about blogs, RSS feeds, or recording equipment.
• Create an account at http://audioboo.fm.
• Upload a profile image, add a brief biography, and make sure to include your web address.
• Before you start booing, do a keyword search to find some boos in your area of interest, to get a feel for what people are doing and relevant people to follow.
• If you have an iPhone, download the free iPhone app. It is also possible to record boos and upload them from your computer. But booing works best on the move.
• Record your first boo. This doesn't have to be an interview—you can just introduce yourself and your new AudioBoo account and say what you'll be using it for. It doesn't have to be slick or professional. The beauty of AudioBoo is its brevity and immediacy.
• Upload your boo along with a photo, which you can take with your iPhone if you are using the app. This might be of the person you were speaking to. Include a title for your boo and tag it with some keywords to help people find it.
• AudioBoo then creates a page for your boo with a media player to play back your audio, the photo you uploaded, and a map showing where you recorded it—since your iPhone knows where you are! You can opt out of the map if you want, and photos are optional too—but both add useful context.
• Your page also includes social bookmarking buttons ("Tweet this," "share on Facebook"), and a link to some embed code so that other people can embed your audio on their own blogs or web pages. You can also use this on your own site to raise awareness of your boos; be sure to include a link on your website. Your AudioBoo profile page also includes buttons to subscribe to all of your boos by RSS or via iTunes.
• Gain greater exposure for your boos by automatically tweeting them to your Twitter account. You can also automatically post them to Facebook, Posterous, FriendFeed, and Tumblr. This has the added benefit of contributing useful content to those accounts.
• Use AudioBoo whenever you have the chance to speak with an expert in your field at a conference or trade fair. Many people use AudioBoo to have a quick chat with conference speakers during breaks, drinks, or when they visit an exhibition stand. You may also want to share the logins with any colleagues who have an iPhone.

Promote your podcast
Get listed in iTunes
iTunes is the Google of podcast directories—you absolutely must get it listed here. Others include PodBean.com, Podcast Alley, PodcastDirectory.com, Podcast Pickle, blubrry, and Odeo—but the vast majority of people will go straight to iTunes.
"iTunes is the Google of podcast directories"
1. Open the iTunes program. You can download this for free from www.apple.com/itunes if you don't have it.
2. Sign in to the iTunes Store. You'll need to create an account if you don't already have one.
3. Click the "Podcasts" section in the top navigation.
4. Click "Submit a Podcast" in the right-hand menu.
5. Enter in your podcast feed URL. Make sure this is the one you created in Feedburner rather than your original feed address from your blog so that Feedburner can track your stats.
6. Confirm the on-screen details and click "Submit." You'll receive an email once your podcast has been accepted by iTunes. This typically takes about a week.

Figure 7.1 Submit your podcast to iTunes
Promote your podcast online
Include a prominent link to your podcast on your own website, including buttons to subscribe in iTunes and by RSS. You might also consider a media player in your sidebar that plays your latest episode.
Make sure your show notes for each episode include plenty of keywords and links to any websites you mention. You might even consider including a full transcript for each episode. This has two benefits: It makes your podcast more accessible, and it creates a large amount of text on your blog that can be indexed by search engines, making you more findable.
Every time you release a new episode, tell your email list, tweet about it, and mention it on Facebook, LinkedIn or whichever social networks you use.
Create community
Just as people can leave text comments on your blog, invite them to submit audio comments on your podcast. Set up a Skype answering service, or use a blog plugin such as http://riffly.com to create a widget that captures audio or video comments. Not everyone is comfortable "phoning in" comments, so invite comments by email, Twitter, Facebook, etc., or by commenting on the blog post for your podcast episode. You might even put a call out on Twitter for people to record their own AudioBoos for potential inclusion on your next podcast. Ask them to let you know when they've done this or to add a hashtag specific to your podcast so you can find their comments. Make sure that people are clear about how their comments will be used.
Encourage your community to review your podcast on iTunes. A podcast with reviews is more likely to be subscribed to by new listeners.
Get interviewed on other podcasts
This is the podcasting equivalent of a guest posting on someone else's blog. Search iTunes for relevant podcasts, and then approach the host by email.
Measure your success
Your customer ratings and reviews on iTunes will give you a sense of how well received your podcast is, along with feedback on your blog and audio comments. But there are other quantitative statistics you can use too:
• Your Feedburner statistics will tell you how many subscribers you have.
• Your web stats will tell you how many times your audio files have been downloaded.
• If you use a podcast hosting service, it will provide these stats.
• If you use unique landing pages—a web address that is only mentioned once on a specific podcast—you can measure how many people have taken action as a result of listening to your show and visited your website.
Take action
• Listen to a few podcasts in your field to research your market.
• Plan your podcast style and format.
• Record your first podcast—interview an expert in your field.
• Produce your first podcast—familiarize yourself with Audacity.
• Deliver your podcast using a blog and Feedburner.
• List your podcast in iTunes.
• Promote your podcast on your website with email and via your social networks.







Chapter 8. Lights, camera, action!: How to produce online video on a budget
The wide take-up of broadband has made watching video online an integral part of many people's Internet browsing experience. It is now possible to watch entire feature films and TV shows online—something unthinkable just a few years ago. You no longer need a vast budget and a film crew to produce compelling video. The barriers to entry to using this medium have dropped significantly, and it is easier and cheaper than ever to create your own video and upload it to free video-sharing sites such as YouTube. As a business, you can use this as a powerful means of communicating directly with your clients and customers.
What is online video?
In October 2009, just five years after its launch, YouTube announced that it had reached the milestone of 1 billion views per day. It is by far the most popular video-sharing website according to Alexa. Other video-sharing sites are available, including blip.tv, 12seconds.tv, www.vimeo.com, and sites aimed at Twitter users such as www.twitvid.com, but the sheer size and reach of YouTube makes this an important place to be if you want to engage your customers with video.
"the sheer size and reach of YouTube makes this an important place to be"
While putting a static piece of video on your website will engage your visitors and help your search engine results, it is not social media. If you upload your video to a video-sharing site and then embed it back on your site (simple to do with the code supplied), it provides another way for people to find and interact with you. They can comment on your video, add it to their "favorites," and even embed it in their own websites or blogs.
Why online video works for business
Video works because it offers you a chance to show your wares to prospective customers or clients—whether you're a plumber, a hypnotherapist, or a travel agent. It works particularly well where there is a visual element to your business—such as video tours of your properties if you are a real estate agent. But most businesses can find a way to use video successfully. In addition, video will
• Boost your search engine rankings if you include it on your website. Search engines like websites with rich media content.
• Provide another way for people to find you. People search on YouTube as well as Google.
• Enhance your brand recognition.
• Encourage people to pass on your marketing message. If your video contains information of interest to a niche audience, bloggers writing about your subject area can embed your videos into their posts.
• Put a human face on your business.
• Educate your market, especially if your product or service is complicated to explain.
• Reduce the amount of time you spend on customer support and queries, by providing all the instruction your customers need in video tutorials. Useful if you sell software or other technical products, for example.
• Screen out the wrong type of client for your business. Sometimes, if people don't understand your product or service, you can waste time on a prospective client before either of you realize that what he or she needs and what you can offer don't match. Video is one of the clearest ways to articulate exactly what it is that you do.

Online video in action: Will it Blend? (www.youtube.com/user/blendtec)
Since 2006 Blendtec has been filming its CEO, Tom Dickson, attempting to grind up various household objects and asking one simple question: Will it blend? Millions of people have watched the videos, on YouTube or their Will It Blend microsite at www.blendtec.com/willitblend, as objects as diverse as baseballs and cameras were lightheartedly yet efficiently destroyed by the Blendtec blender.
When Apple's iPad launched in April 2010 they, of course, blended it as almost seven million people watched in the two months after upload. They then ran a cheeky competition in recognition of how opinion was divided on the new gadget: You could win a Blendtec blender plus either an intact iPad or the blended iPad remains. Competitions and giveaways are also promoted on their Facebook and Twitter pages, and their blog. Social media tools are more powerful when combined.
The videos are fun, communicate a key brand message ("the world's strongest blender"), and have generated headlines. But what about sales? Speaking in January 2009—on YouTube, of course—Tom Dickson said: "We're the 16th most subscribed to director on YouTube, and the 30th most watched. And our sales are up 700% since we started this Will It Blend campaign!"4

Figure 8.1 Blendtec iPad giveaway video on YouTube
Source: www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_BshfWGQos
Get the idea: You don't have to demonstrate your product in a bland, corporate, infomercial style. If you can find a way to showcase your product in a fun, irreverent, entertaining way, you will attract more viewers and encourage them to pass on your video. Use YouTube to promote competitions and giveaways that lead people back to your site.

Get up to speed with online video
How you go about creating your video content depends on how ambitious you want to be, the production values you deem necessary, the time you have available, your level of technical skill, and what sort of video you want to produce. You don't need a film school degree to get started with your own videos. For a small investment you can buy a cheap camera and upload clips direct to YouTube. In this section, we look at how to:
1. Decide what to produce.
2. Choose your equipment.
3. Film a studio-based interview.
4. Edit and output your video.
5. Share your video.
Decide what to produce
Whether you do it yourself or hire a video production company, the first step is to decide exactly what sort of video you want to produce. As with any form of social media marketing, the content you produce must be guided by what your community of interest will find of value. This can be quite specific and niche—in fact it's better if it is. You're not competing with the high-end TV ads of big brand advertising either. Often a talking head is just fine.
"the content you produce must be guided by what your community of interest will find of value"
Lord Reith's mission statement for the British Broadcasting Corporation in 1927—to inform, educate and entertain—is a good guiding principle for producing video to support your business. You do, of course, have a fourth goal—to sell—but if you think "infotainment" rather than "sales pitch," your video will be more engaging, more widely viewed, and more likely to be passed on.
Consider your reasons for wanting to use video. What are your goals? They might include to generate sales, drive traffic to your website, raise brand awareness or reduce customer support costs. Here are some options to consider:
• A welcome message on your website shows a human face behind the business.
• Client testimonials are more engaging and convincing if presented as a compilation of short video interviews rather than a few lines of text.
• Interviews, discussions or pieces to camera, filmed in "studio" conditions with professional lighting present a professional image and can convey useful information about your product, service, or topic.
• Commercials may seem obvious, but they can be the least effective option. If you have an existing TV ad or promotional video, there's no harm in repurposing this for your online marketing. But TV ads rarely work well at the tiny screen size and limited resolution available to you on most video-sharing sites. Even though you can maximize the screen, most people don't, and you lose valuable detail. Better to have a single close-up of a talking head or something that works equally well at 480 × 295 pixels.
• Infomercials are more interesting than straight video ads. If you can get across some useful information that also mentions your product or service, it's much more likely to be viewed and shared.
• Product demonstrations work when your product needs explanation or instructions and can cut down on customer support time. Do you run a garden center? How about a video showing us how to prune the roses you sell? You will find plenty of examples of exactly that on YouTube.
• Training videos are a softer sell, yet by providing useful information in your area of expertise (but with the Web address of your business at the end), they will draw people on to your site. You might also consider creating longer tutorials or online courses to sell. Joseph Clough is a hypnosis trainer who promotes his training and self-development titles with videos about hypnosis at www.youtube.com/user/josephcloughhypnosis. If you have an area of expertise, why not show us what you can do?
Choose your equipment
Most forms of online marketing are free. However, like podcasting, in order to create video content, you will need to spend a bit of cash. The good news is that you don't necessarily need to spend a fortune. The minimum hardware you will require is a video camera and a computer. You will also need some video editing software.
Camera
You don't need high-end professional gear. Many video podcasters use the Flip video camera, a hand-held camera with surprisingly good quality for its size. It is easy to use, highly portable, and great for filming ad hoc interviews when you're visiting clients or attending events, or for filming yourself doing a piece to camera. It has a pop-out USB connector to plug straight into your computer and upload your video to your YouTube account, and holds about two hours of video. The downside is that the audio from the built-in microphone will never be as good as a soundtrack recorded using external microphones. If you use the Flip, be sure to be quite close to your subject to get the best possible audio from it.
The Kodak Zi8 is a similarly priced alternative (both retail at around $200), but comes with an external microphone jack, stores ten hours of video, and includes face tracking software. Both can record in HD.
You can even record and upload video from some smartphones, including the newer iPhones. This is useful for capturing current events—a growing trend as video and audio increasingly become part of the real-time web.
For something more substantial, you don't need a professional level video camera or something that will produce broadcast standard video (and, if you do, hire someone to do this for you). Go for a consumer video camera, but as high-end as you can afford. Key things to look out for include
• The ability to attach external microphones. Don't rely on the built-in microphone on your camera. The end result may be too quiet, and sound a bit cheap. Use an external microphone, such as a shotgun microphone that is attached to the top of your camera. Better yet, record a separate soundtrack using the equipment discussed in the podcasting chapter. There's really nothing to beat clip-on tie microphones for quality of sound. You can record the sound direct on to your Microtrack or laptop and use this in the final edit. If you do this, ensure you still record sound with the camera itself since this will help you find your way around the filmed footage in the edit.
• Manual settings, such as the ability to set the "white balance" and use manual focus.
• A camera that will record directly on to a digital hard drive, rather than on to mini discs, so that you don't have to waste time converting these into a format you can use.
• A camera that can record in "high definition" isn't essential, but as video standards improve online, this could be useful.
Lights
If microphones are essential to the quality of your podcast, lighting is essential for video. If you're doing quick and informal clips, you may be able to get away with your Flip camera and use the available light. For something more professional, particularly for studio-based interviews and pieces to camera, you will need some "continuous lighting." This means studio lights that stay on all the time, as opposed to flash lighting used in still photography. You will need a minimum of two lights—and ideally three.
"lighting is essential for video"

Figure 8.2 Three-point lighting
For a professional studio look, use three-point lighting, arranged as shown in the diagram. Your main or "key" light is the primary lighting source for your subject. The second light is to fill in the shadows and should be used with a diffuser. The third light is above and slightly behind your subject's head, and separates him or her from the background with a halo of light. You will see this technique used on any TV show with talking-head punditry—look out for it.
Film a studio-based interview
A studio-based interview is the best way to have full control over the sound and lighting conditions and create a professional-looking piece. Now, when I say "studio," I don't mean you have to hire a TV studio. Any quiet room where you won't be disturbed will do—your office, a room you hire, even a location such as a trendy bar that you can rent out for a few hours. Your location should suit the tone of your video.
"your location should suit the tone of your video"
Lights
Set up your three-point lighting as described here. If there are windows, keep the blinds or curtains open, unless bright sunlight is interfering with your shot. If there are lights in the room, switch them all on. Use all available light as well as your studio lighting.
Camera
Use a tripod to steady your camera. Set the focus manually by zooming right in on your subject's nose, adjusting the focus until it's sharp, then zooming back out again. With all your lights on, set the "white balance" by asking your subject to hold a piece of white paper in front of their face. Zoom in until this fills the screen. Set the white balance according to your camera's instructions and zoom out again. This removes any "color cast" from artificial lighting and ensures the colors in your finished video will be correct.
Action!
If you are interviewing someone—such as a client, a colleague, or an expert in a particular field—you can either prime them with a few questions to respond to beforehand or ask them questions from behind the camera (you asking the questions can be edited out later). Make sure you gather all the video material you will need to edit from later. Depending on how scripted the piece is, how fluent the speaker is, and how many takes you need, I would suggest you need up to half an hour of footage to create a 3-5 minute final piece.
The rule of thirds
Photographers often use the "rule of thirds" to compose shots. This works well for filming interviews too. It just looks odd if the subject is in the middle of the screen. Instead, imagine the screen is divided into nine equally sized segments—three across and three down.

Figure 8.3 The rule of thirds
Position your subject so that they're caught in the top-left or top-right crosshairs of these imaginary lines. Right between the eyes!
Styles can be
• A piece direct to camera—the subject looks directly at the camera and says their piece. This isn't really an interview (though there might be someone prompting with questions from behind the camera), but it might be appropriate for filming a welcome message for your website.
• Responses to an "invisible director"—the director or camera operator asks questions from behind and to one side of the camera. The subject looks at the director, NEVER at the camera. This creates a more professional image, and is the style you will see most commonly on documentaries and "talking heads" shows.
• An interview with a visible interviewer—this is a more documentary style where the interviewer asks the subject questions on camera.
• A discussion—where there are two or three subjects having a discussion about a set topic. It is best if this is unscripted but essential that the participants are clear about the topics to be covered, and a "pre-discussion" is useful before the camera rolls (though you may film this too as there could be usable footage). Subjects should generally not look at the camera, though sometimes treating the camera as an extra person in the conversation can work.
Using cutaways, noddies, and B-roll
Where you have more than one person on camera, it is more interesting to show reaction shots and use close-ups of individuals speaking than a continuous mid-shot of everyone. Because of the small screen size most people will see the video on, close-up head shots will also be more visible than a group of people.
You can do this with a single camera by filming "noddies"—reaction shots of the interviewer or other participants in a discussion nodding or listening intently to what others are saying. These can be filmed after the discussion. For close-ups of individual speakers, you will need to re-record parts of the discussion with different camera angles and zoom. This can feel unnatural for the speakers, especially if they are new to being filmed! But it comes out in the edit. Bear in mind at all times what you want the end result to look like, and that will guide you as to what footage you are going to need to get for the edit.
"bear in mind at all times what you want the end result to look like"
The other reason for using noddies and other camera angles is that they can be used to cover up edits. You will probably want to use only parts of the footage you gather, and don't want the edits to jump and jar. Cut away to a reaction shot or close-up to cover up those jumps. This will work because you will be editing to the soundtrack—i.e., you will edit the complete final audio track first, and then add the correct pieces of film to it. The other way to cover edits is with "B-roll." This was traditionally additional footage shot by an extra, "B" camera, such as establishing shots of the location of the shoot. You can film all of this with the same camera of course.
You might also use stock video footage where it seems appropriate to the topic being discussed and illustrates a point. For example, if the interviewee is talking about her cake decorating business, you could film separate footage later of her decorating cakes, or you might be able to use more generic stock footage of cakes being decorated. Does that sound a random, far-fetched example? There is plenty of affordable stock video footage on the Internet. I just did a search for cake decoration on www.istockphoto.com and found 68 video clips.
Edit and output your video
A full explanation of video editing goes beyond the scope of this book. The most important advice is that you should always use timeline-based video editing software. This means that you can add your soundtrack, music, video footage, images, titles, captions, effects, and transitions to a single timeline and have a much greater degree of control. I recommend Final Cut Express for the Mac and Adobe Premiere Elements for the PC. These cut-down versions of the software are much cheaper than the full versions and perfectly fine for your needs. You are not making a feature film, after all.
Create your soundtrack first. Most video editing software allows you to do this, though I prefer to edit it using Audacity first, as I would for audio podcasts. Once you're happy with your soundtrack, you can start adding your video to it, using noddies, cutaways and B-roll to cover the edits. You can also add images to your video and should start and end with a "slate" screen—a static image that might include a title, your company logo or a URL. The final screen should normally be your web address since this will be the call to action—to visit your website.
"once you're happy with your soundtrack, you can start adding your video"
Once you've finished editing your video, you need to "encode" it in a standard video format. You will find a number of preset options for this in your video editing software, which now often include presets optimised for YouTube, video podcasts, or web use.

Quick win: Producing online video without a camera
Yes, you can still produce useful videos for your target audience without investing in any camera equipment at all—just some affordable software. If your business lends itself to online tutorials—i.e., showing people how to do things online—you can produce these using screen capture software such as Camtasia (www.techsmith.com/camtasia for PC or www.techsmith.com/camtasiamac for Mac). This can be useful for showing people how to use your online product. It's what I use to create the video tutorials for this book.
If your business doesn't sell online products that need explaining to clients, but you still have some knowledge to impart, you could do this by capturing PowerPoint slides and/or still images instead of websites and add your own voiceover. If you do have a camera, you could even intersperse these with some pieces to camera. If you don't, you could use some stock video footage that illustrates your point. There is a wealth of cheap stock video clips at www.istockphoto.com.

Share your video
Just because YouTube is the biggest doesn't necessarily mean it is the right video-sharing site for your business. There are around 50 alternatives; plus you can also upload and share video on social networks such as Facebook and MySpace and on sites that are usually thought of as photo-sharing sites such as Flickr. You can also upload video ads to your Google AdWords campaign.
Some of the main video-sharing sites are as follows:

As with any tool you use, it should be an appropriate channel for getting your message across and where your content is likely to be found by your target audience.

Quick win: Create a useful video resource for your audience without producing a single video
• Create a YouTube channel by going to www.youtube.com/create_account.
• Choose a username that matches your business or has keywords related to your business.
• Be sure to include some details about your business and your web address in your profile (www.youtube.com/account#profile/about).
• Brand it to your business by editing the design and color scheme of your channel at www.youtube.com/profile?edit=1. If you want to go a stage further, create a customized, branded background for your channel.
• Use the search box to find videos that you think will be of interest to your target market. These might be video tutorials, conference speeches, or information relevant to your industry. If you are a plumber, do a search for "plumbing," and you'll be amazed at the range of videos on plumbing tips and repairs available!
• "Favorite" a number of videos. Click on your some of your search results to play them, then select "favorites" from the "Save to" drop-down menu underneath the video. This will add it to your favorites list on your YouTube channel.
You now have a YouTube channel, some useful content to share with people, and a new way for people to find your business online. Ideally you will create and upload some of your own videos here, and then embed them back in your own website or blog. But meanwhile, you have a presence on YouTube.

Manage the workload
The work involved in creating online video is in producing it in the first place, rather than the maintenance. It may be something you do relatively infrequently compared with, say, blogging. But you should still check in to your YouTube channel periodically to favorite a few videos and respond to friend requests and comments. Ways to maximize your effectiveness while minimizing the work include
• Whenever you film interviews, do several in one day if you can so that you only have to set up and break down your equipment once. This is often the most time-consuming part, after editing.
• Use a Twitter-based video-sharing service such as TwitVid for ad hoc videos on the move that can be linked automatically to your Twitter profile.
• Sign up to YouTube email alerts so that you know whenever someone comments on your video without having to monitor the site.
• Use the YouTube Autoshare feature (http://www.youtube.com/account#sharing/activity) to link your YouTube activities to your Twitter and/or Facebook accounts. These can include uploading, favoriting and commenting on videos.
• Include your YouTube channel in the social media aggregator www.friendfeed.com, and then import this feed into Facebook using the FriendFeed app (http://apps.facebook.com/friendfeed), or into your blog or website using the widget supplied by FriendFeed.
• Use a Facebook app such as YouTube Box (http://apps.facebook.com/videobox/) to include your YouTube videos on your Facebook page or profile.
Measure your results
There are plenty of basic statistics on video-sharing sites you can record, such as the number of views, ratings, and comments on your videos. But there are additional metrics and demographic data that you can access simply by clicking the down arrow next to the number of views. You can see these for any video, not just your own. The stats for the Blendtec iPad giveaway video are shown in Figure 8.4.

Figure 8.4 YouTube metrics
That will tell you something about who your videos are popular with and where. But you can go a stage further and measure who took action as a result of watching your video. By using a unique URL—a web address that is only ever mentioned on a specific video—you will be able to tell how many people have not only watched your video but also responded to your call to action. A unique URL can refer on to wherever you actually want the viewer to land—but you will be able to see from your web stats how many people took this journey.
You can use a unique URL in the description of your YouTube video—but it makes sense to also use it in the video itself, such as in a caption or on the end slate screen, so that it is visible when the video is embedded in another site.
You can do a similar thing with promotional codes that are used on a specific video. You will know how many people came to your site and bought something as a result of watching your video from the promo code used. This is useful if one of your goals for using video is to generate sales since it is a direct measure of sales success.
If you don't want to use unique URLs or just want a more general idea of the effectiveness of your videos in driving traffic to your site, you can still discover a lot from your web analytics. Measure your traffic before and after you use video and look at where the traffic is coming from.
If one of your goals is to reduce customer support queries, take a measure of the number of these before and after you use videos offering product demos or other customer support.
If your goal is raising brand awareness, you will need to use slightly more traditional means to discover your effectiveness and conduct market research into your brand perception, including questions about where people first heard about you.
Take action
• Create a YouTube Channel for your business at www.youtube.com/create_account.
• Search YouTube for videos in your business area.
• Favorite some videos and link these to Twitter/Facebook.
• Define your business goals and choose a style of online video.
• Choose your equipment.
• Film an interview.
• Edit, output, and share your first video!







Chapter 9. Show, don't tell: How to showcase your business on photo-sharing sites
Various sites allow you to upload and share your photos with others, either publicly or privately, including Flickr, Picasa, Photobucket, Snapfish, and Blipfoto, plus services such as Twitpic and Tweetphoto that allow you to share images on Twitter. You can also share images on Facebook and MySpace. You may be familiar with some of these for sharing your personal or family photos. But they can also be used for business.
What is photo sharing?
Photo sharing is the uploading and sharing of your images on a third-party website. Most are free, at least to use a basic account with limited storage space. Most allow members to comment on each other's images, and members to "tag" their images with keywords to aid searching. Images can often be rated and favorited, and members normally have a profile page with more information about them. This is usually the one place where you are allowed to mention your business and link to it.
Why does photo sharing work for business?
"photo sharing works best if you have a visual element to your business"
Photo sharing works best if you have a visual element to your business that people are likely to search for on the photo-sharing sites they use. It is probably less useful for a service industry, such as accounting. For example, if you run a hotel in a scenic part of the country, uploading local images will make you findable by people searching for that location. If you run a pet store, there are currently 12,460 Flickr groups dedicated to pets!
Like other forms of social media, photo sharing works best if you get involved in the community. Just as you can increase your visibility in the blogosphere by commenting on other people's posts, you will be more visible if you comment on other people's photos, add them to your "favorites" and take part in discussions within groups. Every time you do this, your screen name will show. If that is your business name or web address, that is free advertising. Seek out images in your area of interest that get a lot of views to comment on. But don't do a hard sell—try to keep the conversation focused on the images.

Photo sharing in action: Oxjam Music Festival (www.oxfam.org.uk/oxjam)
Oxjam is a music event organized in the UK each year by the charity Oxfam. Actually, it's really organized by hundreds of music lovers across the UK, who put together local music events throughout October and donate the proceeds to Oxfam to help fight poverty. Active on Twitter, Facebook, and MySpace (which has found its niche in music), Oxjam also has a Flickr group at www.flickr.com/groups/oxjam with over 2,300 photos taken by around 100 members across the UK.
Tagged with "Oxjam" and uploaded to the group pool, they are a way of visually promoting the event. The group page includes a clear explanation of what Oxjam is, a call to action to "get involved," and links not only to their website but also to their presence on other social sites. It helps promote their message, drive traffic to their website, engage supporters, and make an otherwise unmanageable amount of photography possible by crowdsourcing it as "user-generated content."
Get the idea: Encourage user-generated content (UGC) by setting up a Flickr group pool and encouraging people to post to it. This will engage your audience and cut down on your workload. You can then also pull these images back into your blog or website using a widget.

Together with uploading some great photos of your own, this social activity will lead people on to your profile page—which is the one place you really can sell yourself. Use this to write about your business and link to your website—but keep other commercial activity on Flickr to a minimum. Flickr's terms of service don't allow you to sell things directly, use it as a product catalog, or include overtly sales-oriented messages or links in titles, tags, descriptions or comments. Using Flickr in this way could result in your account being deleted. More to the point, it's not a very smart way to use it. Better to think of Flickr—and other photo-sharing sites—as a community-building platform, a way to engage and involve your customers through sharing and commenting on photos.
Choosing a photo-sharing site
I tend to recommend Flickr, but other photo-sharing sites are available (see table on the next page). I am occasionally asked "Which is better: Flickr or Twitpic?" The answer is "It depends." The services are so different, it depends what you want to do with your images.
You can, of course, also create albums and share photos on Facebook and MySpace. For example, my photographer, Krystyna Fitzgerald-Morris, uses MySpace to showcase her work and generate leads (www.myspace.com/krysbabooshkat).
Get up to speed with photo sharing
We will focus on Flickr for the rest of this chapter since it offers the most potential for marketing your business with social media. The steps to follow are
1. Sign up for an account with Flickr.
2. Upload some photos.
3. Use Flickr groups.
4. Link to your blog or website.
Sign up for an account with Flickr
Flickr is owned by Yahoo, and you will need a Yahoo login to get started—but this can be set up easily within minutes. It is free, or $24.95 for a "Pro" account with unlimited storage.
Think carefully about the username you choose. Do you want to use your personal name or business name? For a business account, unless your business is intimately tied to you as a person, I'd go for a business name. You can choose a different screen name to the one you use as for your username (which shows up in your Flickr URL), so you could even use your business web address as your screen name. That way, it will show up on every photo you upload.

"you could even use your business web address as your screen name"
Include some description of yourself and your business on your profile—and make sure you include a profile photo, or "buddy icon"—it's a real turn-off on Flickr if you don't! This could be your company logo.
Upload some photos
Once you've joined, adding photos to Flickr is done through a simple upload system via the site. You can organize your images into themed "sets," and your sets into themed "collections" on your account. An alternative to setting up a dedicated business account is to use your personal account, and create a set, collection, or group for your business images.
Upload good-quality images that are relevant to your business, such as:
• Photos of you or your staff in action—giving a seminar, arranging flowers, rewiring a house, catering events, selling sweets, making furniture—whatever it is that you do.
• Images of your products—although you should avoid using Flickr as a product catalog, there's no reason not to include some quality photos of your cakes, wine, jewelry, etc.—and it is likely you will find Flickr groups relating to your specific product that you should also add these images to.
• Images of any events, workshops, or seminars you run. For example, Chicago-based web design and development agency Headstand Media use Flickr to upload photos from their evening seminars at www.flickr.com/photos/headstandmedia.
Essential things to do when adding photos include
• Title it—IMG0001254.jpg doesn't tell us anything. Give your image a descriptive title.
• Tag it—give your photo some descriptive tags, one of which should be your business name.
• Describe it—add as much description as you need to tell us what is going on, but avoid a sales pitch—focus on the photography, not the sale.
• Geotag it—this is essential for any business where location is important, such as tourism, travel, or real estate. But it is also useful for any business with a physical location. This is a subtle way to help people find you without being overtly promotional: Upload some pictures of your restaurant, geotag them, and then people can click the "Map" link that appears next to your photo to find you! Be sure to include the name of the location in your tags too.
All these things will help your photos to be found in Flickr and in search engines. In addition, decide on the level of visibility for your image and how it can be used. You can set account defaults for these but also amend them for any individual image any time.
• Public or private? You can make photos visible to everyone, just to you, or just to friends and/or family. You choose who you add to your friends and/or family lists when you add people as contacts on Flickr. Generally, you want all your pictures to be publicly visible to everyone. But there might be occasions when you just want some visible only to you and/or colleagues. Or you might use the same account for personal as well as business photos and just want the business ones to be public.
• Copyright or Creative Commons? The default on Flickr is that you own the copyright to all your images, and "© All Rights Reserved" is displayed next to them. You can, however, change this and opt for Creative Commons. This has emerged as an alternative to copyright and means you can allow others to use your image so long as they use it in the way you want—such as for non-commercial use, unmodified, and with a credit. Newspapers and magazines do search Flickr for images—and using CC makes it more likely that yours will be used. Likewise, you can do a search for CC images and use them on your own blog—as long as you credit the photographer and link back to the original image.

Quick win: Batch process your uploads or upload on the move
Use the Flickr "Uploadr"—a small piece of software you can download and use to upload batches of images from your hard drive any time, without even being on the site (see http://www.flickr.com/tools). You can also batch-process adding titles, tags, and descriptions and automatically add your batch to an existing collection—or create a new one.
As with most social media tools, you can also use your mobile phone, and there is a Flickr iPhone app. Use this when you're out and about to capture relevant images and upload them on the move.

Use Flickr groups
Search for Flickr groups to join in your topic area. There are plenty of groups for anything you can imagine. Do you sell cakes? There are about 6,000 groups for that! If you are a local business, there is probably a group for your town or city too, which will help you reach a local audience.
Observe the group posting rules, which vary from group to group and are set by the group administrator. But then get uploading. Joining groups is the main way to raise awareness of your images. Be sure to take part in any forum discussions in your chosen groups, and comment on other members' photos—particularly those that get a lot of views.
"joining groups is the main way to raise awareness of your images"
The other option is to create your own group. You might create a group for your business that only you post to, or you could create an open group that others can post to. This is a more engaging way to build connections and encourages user-generated content—and therefore cuts down on your workload. This approach would be suitable for any events or seminars that you organize. You can also include discussion forums in your group, an additional way of communicating with and engaging your members.
For example, Media140 organize conferences and events around the world on the future and impact of the "real-time web," such as Twitter. As you would expect, there is plenty of tweeting at these events. But the collaborative media generation around these events also includes photos. A Flickr group at www.flickr.com/groups/media140 enables delegates to add their own photos. Including the tag "media140" in their photos provides an additional way for people to find images of the events—even if they haven't been added to the group. The group page, like a Flickr profile page, allows for some promotional blurb about Media140 and a link to their website.
Link to your blog or website
Once you have a Flickr account, pull relevant images from your Flickr account or group into your website or blog using a widget. You can find a couple of these at www.widgetbox.com/widget/flickr-badge and www.widgetbox.com/widget/flickr-slideshow. There are also various WordPress plugins you can use on your blog and Flickr apps you can use on your Facebook profile or page (see pages 76 and 147).
As well as adding some images and interest to your website, this gives people who are already on Flickr the opportunity to click through and add you as a contact or see the rest of your images. It is another way to build a community around your business by going where your customers are.
You should link prominently from your website to your Flickr photostream whether or not you use a widget. This helps Google to follow the link from your website to your photos and index them too, thus increasing your search engine matches.
Measure your results
If you have a Flickr Pro account, you get access to loads of statistics on your account. Just go to "Your Stats" under the "You" menu to see a graph of views of your account over time and find out your most viewed photos.
You can also see where your traffic is coming from, such as from Google image search, in the Referrers list and a handy breakdown of all your photos and videos on Flickr. You can even download all your stats as a text file.
Finally, if you want to measure click-throughs to your website as a result of your activity on Flickr, make your weblink from your profile page a unique URL that refers on to your site.

Figure 9.1 Flickr stats
Take action
• Set up an account at at www.flickr.com.
• Create a profile, making sure you include a link to your website.
• Upload some images.
• Join groups relevant to your topic, add your images, and join the discussions.
• Embed your photos back on your blog or website with a widget.







Part Four: Get out there







Chapter 10. Build a community: How to choose and use social networks
If blogging has made everyone a publisher, social networking has made everyone a celebrity. Social networking sites have revolutionized the way we use the Web. On today's Internet, if you don't have what William Gibson calls a "home-built media persona," you don't exist. And if your business doesn't have a presence on social networks, you're missing a massive opportunity to reach people where they are. Where once we emailed, now we network. And we spend a lot of our time doing it—one in every six minutes of online time is now spent on a social networking site.
"where once we emailed, now we network"
In this chapter, we look at the case for social networking, and some principles that apply whichever one you choose. The social networks that are likely to be of most benefit to your business are Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter, and we look at these in more depth in the following chapters.
What is social networking?
Although there is a proliferation of social networking sites, most share some common features, including the ability to:
• Create a personal profile with some information about yourself, usually including a website and a profile image or "avatar."
• Update your "status"—a short description of what you're doing.
• Add friends to your list of contacts.
• Set up a group, page, or list of people for your area of interest.
• Create and manage events.
• Add and share photos and video.
• Add extra functions through "applications."
• Promote your product or service with advertising.
Many social networks can also be used as "aggregators"—they can be linked together, so status updates from other networks, plus your blog posts and other content items can appear in the same place. This can save you a lot of maintenance time since what you do on one site can show up on several others automatically.
Why social networking works for business
Social networking works for business because you can build connections, build a list, build word of mouth, and build trust. All are key to your online marketing success, and nothing beats social networks for making it happen.
Build connections
Do you go to real-life business networking events armed with a fistful of business cards? Do you have lots of enthusiastic conversations with people who you never hear from again? Or do you come away with solid business leads for new prospects and suppliers? Either way, this process is compressed and multiplied online.
Like real-life networking, you can meet people and start conversations. You can provide helpful advice and ask for it. Unlike real-life networking, you don't have to do this one-to-one, but one-to-many. Very many. You can reach more people, all over the world, 24 hours a day, articulate your offering to them, and collect their contact details without ever leaving your office. You can also become well known in your niche community and the obvious "go to" person on your area of expertise for the people you want to reach.
Build a list
Your networks act as opted-in mailing lists you can use to reach highly targeted people who are likely to be interested in your product or service. They've sought you out and chosen to be on your list, after all.
Build word of mouth
Having your product or service recommended to your potential customers by people they trust is called "word of mouth" marketing—and is the Holy Grail of marketing. It becomes much easier to achieve this with the power of social networking. If you create content worth passing on, your fans will help market your business for you. For example, if someone becomes a fan of your Facebook page, that will show up on his profile page and in the news feeds of his friends—some of whom may click the link and become a fan too. Likewise, if your video is compelling enough for someone to share on her profile page, or your blog post interesting enough for someone to link to or retweet on Twitter, that too becomes more visible and helps spread the word. In this way, media, marketing and people all get mixed up together.
"word of mouth is the Holy Grail of marketing"
Build trust
As well as getting your message passed on to new people by people they trust—something that applies to all forms of social media—social networks help build trust in you too. People like to do business with people they know; and mediating yourself via a social network is a great way for people to get to know you. You don't have to fill your Facebook profile with lots of business information—though a clear link to your business website is a must. Just be yourself and include information about your business where appropriate. Don't use it as a sales channel only, though. People like to see a well-rounded, authentic individual with diverse interests—not a faceless corporate clone.

Social networking in action: Ivy Ellen Wedding Stationery (www.ivyellen.co.uk)
Jeremy Corner set up Ivy Ellen in October 2009, a Brighton-based wedding stationery business, and quickly grew the brand using social networking. Using a range of social networks, particularly Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, they have built up a wealth of useful leads, contacts—and business.
Each network is used differently: LinkedIn for professional contact with wedding suppliers such as venues, photographers, dressmakers and wedding planners; Facebook for more customer-focused special offers, wedding freebies, and funny wedding stuff; and Twitter for more frequent updates—fun, friendly wedding tips, facts, and news. Twitter is their most successful social media tool at present for driving traffic and growing brand awareness.
They have also experimented with Facebook Social Ads, Google AdWords, bridal shows, and wedding magazine PR and track everything using special offer codes and even different toll-free numbers that tell them which calls come from which campaigns. Google Analytics help measure which social networks work best for them.
Their use of social networking has led to many positive outcomes—several blogs and articles being written about them, sales leads, brand champions referring them to others, building incoming weblinks, industry knowledge, sales orders, and substantial brand awareness—all in a short space of time. In the six months following launch, the company was growing at 140 percent per month.
Their key to success is being organized about it, and setting aside time for marketing. Jeremy says: "You should focus on spending at least a third of your time marketing—more for a new business in my view." They use a number of third-party tools to help manage the time spent on Twitter, including filtering and scheduling tweets with Hootsuite (http://hootsuite.com). "I believe the future of search will be social," he continues, "so I consider it time well spent, and I value my time highly as I only work three days per week and run three separate businesses. I would not be growing the Ivy Ellen brand as fast without these tools."
Jeremy advises business owners to think of social networking as their ultimate online referral system: "If you are consumer facing, social media is a must-have in your toolbox. Just as you should think about what value your business offers your customers, think about what value you can offer your followers. Be helpful, be funny, or be informative. Most people will enjoy following and interacting with you if you do these things."
Get the idea: Use several social networks, but use each in a way appropriate to the platform and its audience. Set aside time for social networking and use tools such as http://hootsuite.com and www.tweetdeck.com to help manage it. Focus on the value you can offer, and your follower numbers will increase.

Top 12 social networking sites
The top 12 social networks, in order of size are as follows. Some may surprise you, some may be new to you—and not all will be suitable for your business:


Which social network?
There are lots of social networking sites out there. Which do you choose? Do you just sign up to as many as possible and hope for the best? Do you pick the largest?
One factor is geography. It partly depends on where in the world you are. In the UK and the U.S., Facebook dominates. In India and Brazil, Orkut is popular. Friendster used to be popular in the West but is now most used in Southeast Asia. Hi5 is popular in places as diverse as Portugal, Thailand, and Central Africa—but not in the U.S.
The real deciding factor is to go where your market is, as with any social media tool. But a good guiding principle is to focus on the largest networks worldwide, those that are best suited to promoting your business, and choose one as your main network.
• Unless it is not widely used in your geographic region, make Facebook your main social network. Otherwise, establish a presence on the largest social network in the region(s) in which you do business.
• If you work in the creative industries—such as music or film—set up a profile on MySpace, which has found its niche in this area.
• If you want to target a younger demographic, Habbo is specifically for teens.
• Put your CV/résumé on LinkedIn—whether or not you use it for networking. It's a way to create an online résumé that you can link to from your website.
• Use LinkedIn more actively if you are a business-to-business (B2B) company.
You can set a profile on all of them of course, even if it is just a "holding" page that directs people to your main social networking profile. But choose one as your main network and set up a personal profile rather than a corporate-sounding brochure. We want personal information about you and your interests.
Do I need a personal profile?
What if you're just not comfortable with opening your personal diary to the world? Can't you just have, say, a Facebook page or group without creating a personal profile first?
Don't underestimate the power of personality and your personal brand. Your profile should be more than a sanitized corporate version of yourself. Human beings are more trusted than faceless businesses. The old distinctions of "work life" and "personal life" are breaking down. Work-life balance is giving way to work-life integration, where you're allowed to be a human being without upsetting business contacts. That doesn't mean you can be rude about your employer or your clients online! I have met people who think that's what authenticity means. It isn't.
"your profile should be more than a sanitized corporate version of yourself"
If you or your employer is uncomfortable with your use of social networking profiles, remember that there are usually privacy settings that can be applied to specific groups of your friends. The other thing you may consider is setting up a separate "work" profile specifically for the purpose of creating pages and groups that are used as your main social networking presence. You do, after all, need a profile on Facebook before you can create pages or groups. Do this with caution, though. If there are multiple versions of you on the same site, how will people know which one to connect to? Some people use a very basic profile for work, using their first name and company name: e.g., if you work for ABC Widgets, your profile name could be "Jon ABC" or "Jon ABC Widgets," and use your logo as your profile picture. It is important that it is clear that there is a real person behind the profile. This is not just to build trust, but because it is the way Facebook in particular should be used. Profiles are for people—not businesses or products.
LinkedIn is all about personal profiles since the core of the site is your curriculum vitae (CV) or résumé online. On Twitter, both business and personal accounts are common. It can be helpful to have both. By all means use an account branded to your business but consider also a personal Twitter account, and mention this in the biography section of your business account.
If you use several networks, be aware that your audience may be a little different on each, and provide appropriate content and information that they're likely to be interested in. In the next three chapters, we will look in more detail at Facebook (Chapter 11), LinkedIn (Chapter 12), and Twitter (Chapter 13).
Take action
• Register for accounts with Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter.
• Choose your main social network(s). Which are the best fit with your business?
• Consider setting up a profile on other, "secondary" networks.







Chapter 11. Find fans on Facebook: How to harness the world's largest network
At the Toronto International Film Festival in 2009, George Clooney declared he would "rather have a prostate exam on live television by a guy with very cold hands than have a Facebook Page." Whether you would rather be poked by a medical doctor on television or by a friend on Facebook, there's no denying the reach of the world's largest social network. At the time of writing, Facebook has over 500 million active users, of whom half log on in any given day. You can see the latest statistics for yourself at www.facebook.com/press/info.php?statistics. But it is not size alone that makes Facebook a good place to do business: Its functions and features lend themselves to finding your community of interest and promoting your goods or services to them.
What is Facebook?
Facebook originally started as a college network in the U.S. You had to have an American university email address to join. Since opening its doors to everyone in 2006, the demographic has rapidly aged and, in common with many social networks, the fastest-growing age group is people over the age of 35. Don't dismiss it as being for kids. Facebook has become one of the most widely used online marketing tools for business.
Why Facebook works for business
Alongside the usual personal profiles you would expect, Facebook offers a wide variety of tools such as pages, groups, events, applications, and ads. Because it has such a large user base, you will almost certainly find a community of interest on Facebook, however niche your area. You can reach very specific, targeted users for little cost with "social ads." But the best thing is it's completely free to create a page or group specifically for your business or product, and your target market will find it. A Facebook page is the single most important thing you can do on Facebook—and one of the easiest. There are more than 160 million pages, groups and events on Facebook, and the average user is connected to 60 of them. Your customers are on Facebook—so you need to be.
"your customers are on Facebook—so you need to be"

Facebook in action: Snapdragon (www.snapdragongarden.co.uk)
Jane Lindsey runs a small craft business in Scotland. She creates embroidered textiles, such as button badges and notebooks, and also prints them as greetings cards. She has moved from retail only, via her website and local fairs, to wholesale and now stocks over 270 shops. Facebook has been key to her success. Jane says: "For a small business without a marketing budget, Facebook allows me to connect with a large number of people for free."
Snapdragon began as a very local business: "I knew the vast majority of my customers personally," says Jane. "It was more like a farm-gate type of business. When the business grew I wanted to keep that local element, to have customers feel that they knew me. I also wanted to get the story of the business out—that we make everything individually, and there are no computerized sewing machines. Facebook allows me to do that—to post about the extended life of the business, be that the wildlife that surrounds us, new designs, or a great new stockist."
Jane uses Facebook to publicize events that are going on at galleries that stock her work, and to have a meaningful dialogue with customers—both retail and wholesale. Over the past year 30 percent of new business has come from either Facebook or Twitter. Jane says: "One challenge in selling wholesale without using an agent is reminding shops to re-order. Facebook allows me to do that in a non-spammy way to the shops that follow me. In return the shops get to know about new products coming up."

Figure 11.1 Snapdragon profile page on Facebook
Get the idea: Use Facebook to tell your story and create a personal connection with people—not just with customers, but with wholesalers and suppliers too. Promote events and use plenty of photos of your products. As Jane says: "Don't try to sell, try to connect."

Get up to speed with Facebook
In this section, we will look at the steps you need to take to get up to speed with Facebook.
1. Create your profile.
2. Create a page or group to build a community around your business.
3. Create an event to promote your business.
4. Set up a social ad to target your niche.
Optionally, you might also want to sell products using Facebook Marketplace (http://apps.facebook.com/marketplace).
Create your profile
If you are not yet on Facebook, the first step is to create a profile. That's the easy part: just sign up for an account and enter some information about yourself. You may not use your own personal profile to promote your business unless you are the brand or very tied to the business, such as a consultant or musician, but you will need to have one in order to create groups, pages, or events. Events can also be created by pages and groups.
1. If you don't have a personal profile, go to www.facebook.com and create one now.
2. Enter as much or as little personal information as you want in the fields provided on the Info tab, but you should always include your business website in the weblinks field. You can include multiple web addresses if you want—though too many may confuse people.
3. Be sure to add a profile picture so people know it's you.
4. The most important place to enter some information about yourself is in the small box beneath your profile image. This is likely to be the first thing that people read. You can enter 250 characters here, and it should be your "elevator pitch"—a short, succinct articulation of what you do and the benefit you offer. Think of it as the online equivalent of introducing yourself to someone at a real-life business networking event as you hand them your business card. There is an "Information" box beneath this. Click on the pencil icon (top-right) to edit which of the information from your Info tab appears here. At a minimum you should include your web address so that anyone intrigued enough by your elevator pitch can click straight through to your business website. If you don't yet have a website or blog, you can enter the Web address for another social network that you're on, or for your Twitter page.
5. Spend a bit of time getting your profile right before you start adding friends, but don't spend too much time on this beyond the basics—we will quickly be moving on to pages, groups, and events.
6. Do a search for your topic area and join a few groups and become a fan of (or "Like") a few pages. This will help familiarize yourself with the possibilities, and give you some places where you can post messages and make more connections (though don't just spam groups with your marketing message!)
You can make your profile as visible or invisible as you like to whoever you choose using the privacy settings. If you are using your personal profile to develop new contacts and get business, you will probably want most people to be able to see it. But even if you choose a high level of privacy, you can still connect with as many people as you want on Facebook via a more public page.
Create a page or group
Groups and pages offer you a way of creating a fully opted-in mailing list: your members and fans have sought you out and chosen to join your group or become a fan of your page, making this the ultimate in permission-based marketing. You can have as many members or fans as you like, where profiles are limited to 5,000 friends. And, like profiles, pages and groups allow status updates, which show up in the news feeds of your fans or members. There are also differences between them, which are worth considering when planning your strategy.
Page or group?

Whether you choose a page or a group to promote your business—or both—be careful about your choice of name. In most cases this is likely to be your business name. But you could also go for a topic-based name. Either way, it helps to consider the name of your group or page as carefully as you would a domain name since people will search for you by keywords on Facebook.
Create a group
1. Go to http://www.facebook.com/groups/create.php.
2. Enter a name and description for your group and choose the most appropriate category from the drop-down menu. All these things will help people find your group, so think carefully about your group name and, where possible, include the search terms you expect people to use.

Figure 11.2 Create a Facebook group
3. Include the other details requested, especially website, and click Create Group.
4. Continue customizing your group as you wish.
Create a page
1. Go to http://www.facebook.com/pages/create.php or scroll to the bottom of any Facebook page and click the "Create a Page for My Business" link.
2. Choose whichever radio button applies to you: "Local business," "Brand, product or organization" or "Artist, band or public figure." There are additional subcategories to choose from in a drop-down menu that will appear.
3. Give your page a name, click the "Create official Page" button, and continue customizing.
4. Unlike groups, you can install most of the same applications (apps) that you have on your personal profile. We will look at these next.

Figure 11.3 Create a Facebook page
Choose and install apps
1. Go to your Facebook Page and click the Edit Page link underneath your logo/image.
From this administrative page, you can adjust your settings, create events, and manage and install apps. You can also see your statistics by clicking on Pages at the top of the page and then View Insights for the page you're interested in.
2. Scroll to the bottom of the page to find the More applications box. Click on Browse more to search for applications.
3. The apps search function is not great—though you will often find more of the right sort of apps if you search under Business rather than All Applications.

Figure 11.4 Manage your Facebook page
Apps to consider


Quick win: Create your own Facebook application
The more adventurous way to benefit from Facebook applications is to create your own. You will need some programming skills, or hire a developer, to create a bespoke application with lots of functionality that people can add to their own profiles. However, there is a simpler way to do it yourself.
There are several applications on Facebook that enable you to create a box on your profile or page that contains whatever HTML you want. These applications include
• My HTML.
• HTML Profile Box. This can only be used on your profile.
• Static FBML (http://www.facebook.com/apps/application.php?id=4949752878). FBML stands for "Facebook Markup Language"—but normal HTML works just fine too. This can be used on pages, and is my favorite because you can add as many boxes as you want to your page using this one application. You can also create a bespoke tab on your page.
If you or someone you know knows some basic HTML, that's great. But the main thing I would suggest is using your own customized HTML box for an email newsletter sign-up form—and you can do that without any coding knowledge. If you set up your email marketing in Chapter 5, you should have a piece of code supplied by your email newsletter service provider. Simply paste the code into one of the Facebook HTML apps. If you don't yet have your email marketing set up but have a blog, you could include links to subscribe to your blog by RSS or email instead.
The other app to consider is Application Builder (http://apps.facebook.com/applicationbuilder). This allows you to create one of 13 different types of apps, such as gifts, quizzes, polls, and a fan page application that can be used to promote your page.

Five ways to win with Facebook pages
1. Claim your username. Once you have 25 fans, you claim your own "vanity URL" instead of meaningless numbers. The Facebook page for this book is www.facebook.com/getuptospeed, for example. Claim yours at www.facebook.com/username.
2. Import your blog. The Notes app is the easiest way to do this and keeps your page fresh.
3. Integrate with Twitter. You can import your Twitter status to your Facebook page status selectively using the Selective Tweet Status app. You can also export your page status to Twitter using the Facebook Page to Twitter app at www.facebook.com/twitter.
4. Create a landing tab. Use the Static FBML app to create a bespoke tab for your page. Then edit your wall settings on your "edit page" screen to select the tab you want non-fans to land on. By doing this you can decide what people see before they become a fan and tempt them in with compelling content.
5. Promote your page. Now that you've created a page let people know about it: blog about it, tweet about it and include it in your email signature. A great way to encourage people to "like" your page direct from your blog or website is with a "Like" button. Find this, and other "social plugins" at http://developers.facebook.com/plugins.
Create an event
Events are useful for product launches, conferences, seminars, etc., especially when you have many potential attendees as fans of your page or members of your group.
Events can be created by:
1. Individuals/profiles—http://www.facebook.com/events/create.php.
2. Groups—click on the Create group event link below your logo/image.
3. Pages—click on the Edit Page link underneath your logo/image, then on the Edit link underneath Events.
Use social ads
"Social Ads" are what Facebook calls those ads you see on the right-hand side of your screen. I have my doubts about how effective they are, compared with engaging people with valuable content on your Facebook Page (have you clicked on one of those ads lately?)—and they cost money. However, social ads are worth considering for a short period when you first launch something—whether it's your website, your Facebook Page or a new product or service—to help raise awareness within your target audience.
"social ads are worth considering for a short period when you first launch something"
They are also worth considering because they are highly targeted—not only by demographics such as gender, location, and age, but by the keywords and job titles people include in their profiles. You can reach a small number of highly targeted individuals for very little cost.
You have the option of choosing pay per click, or pay per view. Because click-through rates on Facebook are so low, you should always choose pay per click. Like other PPC services, such as Google AdWords, you can set a budget limit and spend as much or as little as you choose.
The other reason to look at social ads—even if you have no intention of ever advertising on Facebook—is to research the size of your potential market on Facebook. If you go through the ad set-up screens but without actually completing your ad, you can still do the demographic and keyword targeting to find out how many people you could reach with an ad. As you narrow your keyword-based search criteria, Facebook will give you a number—the number of people at whom the ad would be targeted. This will provide you with some useful market intelligence about the people you are trying to reach. It is especially useful if you are a local business and may even help you decide if Facebook is a good place for you to do business.
Find out more at www.facebook.com/advertising.
Manage the workload
You can cut down on time maintaining groups and pages—especially if you have several—by setting up multiple administrators to look after them. These might be colleagues or employees or a task outsourced to a virtual assistant. See Chapter 16 for more on hiring virtual assistants.
But the real trick to managing your Facebook workload is to aggregate. Social networking really starts to get interesting once you use Facebook as an aggregator for your social media presence elsewhere. Do this by installing some of the apps on your page that pull in your blog, videos, Flickr photos, Delicious links, and so on.
You can go a stage further by signing up to another social network called FriendFeed (www.friendfeed.com). Don't worry—this isn't going to be yet another network that you have to maintain—you're just going to tell it the other social sites you have a presence on and let it do the rest. Although you can use FriendFeed to post status updates, send direct messages, create lists of friends and join groups, the most effective way to use it is simply as a social media aggregator: a place to create a single timeline made up of all your feeds from various social sites.
With FriendFeed you can list around 60 different web services that you're on, including blogs and RSS feeds, social bookmarking sites, photo-sharing sites, status updates from Facebook and Twitter, video-sharing sites such as YouTube, and many others. This is a way of really cutting down the maintenance workload. Whenever you add photos to Flickr, favorite a video on YouTube, update your blog, update your Twitter status and so on, it all appears in a real-time aggregated timeline on FriendFeed. And the best thing is that no one actually has to go to your FriendFeed page to see this. By installing the FriendFeed application on Facebook, all your updates from FriendFeed (and therefore your entire social media presence), will appear in your Facebook timeline. If you wish, you can also create a widget to put on your blog, or link FriendFeed to Twitter. FriendFeed offers a range of advanced Twitter settings that enable you to post everything to Twitter or just those specific services you choose. You can also choose to make the links click through to the original source instead of FriendFeed.
"this is a way of really cutting down the maintenance workload"
You probably won't want to rely exclusively on FriendFeed to aggregate your social media within Facebook, particularly if you have a blog or podcast that you want to make more prominent on your profile or page. You could include your FriendFeed feed on a discrete tab within your page and rely on the range of Facebook applications that will pull in your most important media, such as your blog, onto your wall.
Measure your results
This is really where Facebook pages come into their own. You have free access to a vast amount of data and metrics about your fans. This can be useful for market research, developing new products or services, or just gaining a better understanding of who your customers are.
Simply go to www.facebook.com/pages/manage and click View Insights next to the page that you want to see the data for.

Figure 11.5 Facebook insights
You can also go directly to www.facebook.com/insights to view data for all your pages. Data available include
• Demographic breakdown by age and gender.
• Fourteen different graphs over time, including total fans, new fans, top countries, interactions, and mentions.
• Breakdown of fans by geographic location—both by country and city. This is useful if, say, you're considering a local marketing campaign in cities where you're popular, or simply to target your social ads better.
• Most popular languages used by fans. This might be useful for deciding whether you should make parts of your website available in other languages.
With groups, you have little more than the number of members to go on.
For social ads, you get the sort of statistics you would expect: impressions, click-through rates, traffic and costs. You should record these for each campaign you run to get an idea of which are the most effective.
Take action
• Sign up for an account at www.facebook.com.
• Set up a personal profile.
• Create a page or group for your business.
• Promote your page.
• Install applications and consider creating your own app.
• Aggregate your other social media.







Chapter 12. Create credibility on LinkedIn: How to take your business networking online
LinkedIn is more of a professional than a social network—which makes it ideal for business. It has an older demographic than many of the generic social networks, with an average age of 41. At the end of 2009, it had over 75 million users. Where Facebook users have friends and Twitter users have followers, LinkedIn users have contacts. Use it to develop business contacts or to develop sales leads if you sell to other businesses.
What is LinkedIn?
LinkedIn has been around since 2003 and was initially little more than a place to keep an online version of your résumé and make business connections—a bit like handing out business cards in cyberspace. It has since evolved into a more social tool, with integration with Twitter updates, applications that enable you to increase functionality such as pulling in a blog, and the ability to create events and groups. Many of the core functions you would expect in a generic social network like Facebook, but tailored for business. It's worth a look even if you just set up a profile then ignore it since it's another place for people to find you. But you may be surprised by its marketing potential, particularly for business-to-business (B2B) marketing.
Why LinkedIn works for business
LinkedIn works for business in several ways.
Building business connections
Whether it's getting back in touch with old colleagues or meeting new contacts, LinkedIn is like a big business networking party where everyone is handing out business cards, and saying "You must meet my colleague X" or "I'm looking for a graphic designer, can you recommend someone?" Use it to tell people what you do, but also for introductions and recruitment.
"LinkedIn is like a big business networking party where everyone is handing out business cards"
Unlike Twitter or Facebook, you can only send contact request invitations to people you know, have some business connection with, whose email address you know, or who you have been introduced to via a mutual contact.
LinkedIn shows you your number of contacts—but unlike Facebook also calculates a number of potential contacts in your wider network of friends of friends. This is very powerful, as it is a database of professionals who are likely to be within your broad areas of interest, who you are not directly connected to, but to whom you could get an introduction via people you do know. This is like real-life business networking, except that you can see which people your business contacts know in front of you on your screen and decide who you think might be useful for you to know, without any conversation taking place over cocktails and canapés (OK, that might be a downside!).
Positioning yourself as an expert
One of the things people do on LinkedIn is ask questions of their extended business community. If you have an area of expertise you can share, you can use it to position yourself as an expert.
Promoting your business
Like Facebook, you can join groups in your area of interest and post relevant messages to them. You can also create ads, though I find this less effective—and far more expensive. You can create groups to engage your community of interest and build up a following. Although you should avoid anything too spammy, marketing messages are much less frowned upon on LinkedIn. It's a business network—promoting your business on it is fine. Just keep it relevant to the people you're talking to.
Bear in mind at all times that your audience on LinkedIn may be subtly different from your audience on Facebook or Twitter. With all social networks, keep your status updates and postings relevant to your community of interest and the network you're communicating on.

LinkedIn in Action: Linda Ruck Communications (LRC) (www.lindaruck.com)
If you're a self-employed business consultant, LinkedIn can be great not only for building contacts but also for winning contracts. Linda Ruck runs her own public relations and event management consultancy in Singapore, Linda Ruck Communications (LRC). LinkedIn has helped make her a global player. Writing on the LinkedIn blog,5 she says: "Being a small business owner carving out a niche against the big players is very challenging. As with any small business you need to develop viable strategies, seek out opportunities and be creative on how to promote your business, all with a limited budget!"
For people working business-to-business, LinkedIn is an obvious route to market. Linda's profile has generated leads and clients from the U.S., UK, Australia, and throughout Asia from companies, including big multinationals, seeking an expert to run events, media, and PR in Singapore and the region.
Linda's first success though LinkedIn was when she was hired by a multinational company based in Boston that required a PR consultant in Singapore to support their Asian expansion plans. The company searched LinkedIn to find a PR company in Singapore who had expertise dealing with U.S.-based companies. She has since worked with the same company every time they have a project in the region. Many of her clients found her this way, simply by searching the site or through "introductions," which is a feature that enables you to ask your contacts for an introduction to one of their contacts.
But Linda also participates in discussions in relevant LinkedIn Groups. This, together with LinkedIn Answers, is an excellent way to promote your expertise in a niche field and increase your visibility on the network. Linda says: "Groups is a great platform to engage in discussions and connect with like-minded professionals to learn and share, whether it's for business or personal interest. And, most importantly, helps establish my thought leadership in a space I've carved out for myself as a small business owner."
Get the idea: Because LinkedIn is a network built on business contacts and referrals, it works well for consultants, freelancers, and independent professionals. Participate actively in LinkedIn Groups and Answers to build a reputation as an expert in your field. Solicit recommendations, become known in a specific niche, and your visibility—and business—will grow.

Get up to speed with LinkedIn
In this section, we will look at the steps you need to take to get up to speed with LinkedIn.
1. Create your profile.
2. Install applications.
3. Set up a LinkedIn Group.
4. Create an event.
5. Offer your expertise on LinkedIn Answers.
Create a profile
Think of your LinkedIn profile as selling copy. On Facebook you might talk about your hobbies or family in your personal profile. For LinkedIn, imagine you are updating your résumé or writing down your elevator pitch. Focus on your career history, education, achievements, and what you can offer your contacts through your business. Add links to your websites so that people can find more information and use plenty of keywords relevant to your industry to boost your search results.
Build your network by importing your email contacts and searching for your business contacts. Look at your contacts' connections too for anyone you know. LinkedIn will also suggest people to connect to, based on your network, and is remarkably good at finding people for you—I'm still often surprised at how often LinkedIn correctly guesses "people you may know." It has a better hit rate than Facebook, in my experience. But this is partly due to the restrictions built into the system. You are discouraged from connecting with just anyone.
"LinkedIn will also suggest people to connect to"
One part of your profile is "Recommendations"—short testimonials written by contacts with whom you have done business. These are equivalent to references you may include with your résumé, and don't be afraid to ask for them. There's even a form to make it easy for you. Go to the Profile Menu, choose Recommendations, and then click the Request Recommendations tab. Or go direct to: www.linkedin.com/recRequests?cor=&trk=recppl_recsforme.
There's a standard message, which you can customize, and you can choose which position you want a recommendation for. This can also be a useful way to add testimonials to your website since you can—and should—ask if you can quote from their recommendation on your website too.

Figure 12.1 Request recommendations on LinkedIn
Install applications
LinkedIn now also has a range of apps to enhance your profile and increase your functionality. Although nothing like on the scale of Facebook (about a dozen so far, including Events and Tweets), they are more business-focused. Find these in the Application Directory via the More... drop-down menu. You will also see apps you have already installed in this menu.

Figure 12.2 LinkedIn More... menu
Import your Twitter feed and blog (there is more information on this in the quick win section), and experiment with other apps that seem relevant to your business.
• Polls is a market research tool that allows you to collect data from your connections for free, or target selected groups of people on LinkedIn based on industry, demographic, job title, etc., for a pay-per-response fee.
• Reading List by Amazon allows you to share what you're reading with other LinkedIn members by linking to books on Amazon.com.
• SlideShare or Google Presentation—if you regularly run courses, give seminars, or speak at conferences to people in your industry, consider uploading a sample presentation using one of these.
• Company Buzz tracks what's being said about your company on Twitter, blogs, and elsewhere.
• Box.net Files allows file sharing with colleagues and specific contacts on LinkedIn.
• My Travel, powered by TripIt, alerts your network to where you'll be travelling. Useful for letting your contacts know when you'll be in the same city as them or if you travel frequently to meet clients, to conferences, or to run seminars.
• Huddle Workspaces allows for private collaboration on projects with colleagues. Documents and spreadsheets can be co-edited with changes tracked.
• SAP Community Bio is for those certified in SAP business software and displays their credentials on their profiles.
• WordPress and Blog Link—if you have a blog, pull your latest postings on to your profile with WordPress (for WordPress blogs), or Blog Link, which is powered by TypePad but works with any blog and will pull in posts from multiple blogs.
• Events displays events that you and your contacts plan to attend. You can also use it to create your own events, which we shall look at later in this chapter.
• Tweets is one of the most useful apps, as it syncs with your Twitter account(s) and is a useful way to aggregate your updates and lessen the workload. Here's how:
Linking in with Twitter
Since 2009 LinkedIn has enabled you to link your Twitter account to your LinkedIn status update. Install the Tweets app and configure the settings. You can choose Tweets from the More... drop-down menu, but that will only allow you to adjust settings for the Twitter account that is linked to your updates.

Figure 12.3 LinkedIn Twitter settings
If you have multiple Twitter accounts, click Settings at the very top of the page, and then click on Twitter Settings—one of the options under Profile Settings. You will then be able to add several Twitter accounts and choose which one you want to link to LinkedIn.
You can add as many Twitter accounts as you like. To add a new account, first make sure that you are logged in to the correct account in Twitter. Click Add another Twitter account, and you will see a screen pop-up as shown in Figure 12.4:

Figure 12.4 Connect to Twitter
Click Allow—and you're done. If, like me, you have more than one Twitter account added, you need to choose which one you want to become your LinkedIn status. You can change this as often as you want—but you can only use one at a time. Choose one from the drop-down menu.
Your final option is to share all your tweets or only those that contain the hashtag #in (#li also works). I recommend selective tweeting. Each social network you use is subtly different, is used for different purposes, and has a slightly different audience. Your LinkedIn contacts may be different people from your Facebook friends, for example, and be interested in different, more business-oriented information. Selective tweeting enables you to keep your updates relevant to your community.
Set up a LinkedIn group
LinkedIn Groups are communities of interest within the wider LinkedIn network. Many professional associations have LinkedIn Groups, which are worth joining and contributing to. But with over half a million LinkedIn Groups to choose from, there's bound to be several relevant to you.
You can also set up your own in your area of interest. I have a Publishing Talk LinkedIn Group that I use to promote the website and connect with publishing professionals around the world. I set this up partly because I knew many existing blog readers were already on LinkedIn, and it was a way of keeping in touch with them there as well as reaching out to new people. Plus I offer workshops to publishers, and people on LinkedIn tend to be interested in professional development.
You can also create subgroups. For example, there is an overall FT Prentice Hall LinkedIn Group, and this book has its own subgroup within it, which pulls in the RSS feed from the blog to the Discussions section.
You can create a group for your company, brand, or website; or just set up a group in your topic area. If you do this, search existing groups first to see where the opportunities are to differentiate yourself.
One of the advantages of your own group is that it can help you grow your personal network within those niches that interest you most, since you can invite members from your group to become contacts. These are people that you might not have found by doing a search, but by creating a group they want to join, they have found you.
LinkedIn is a bit strict about who you can invite to join your contacts—it should be people you know or have done business with. However, you can also invite people who are fellow members of a LinkedIn group.
You should always try to use a more personalized invitation than the default "I'd like to add you to my professional network on LinkedIn" message!

Figure 12.5 Invite people to connect on LinkedIn
To create your LinkedIn Group, go to the Groups tab, click Create a Group, and fill in the details.

Figure 12.6 LinkedIn groups tab
Make sure you upload a logo—once people start joining, this "badge" will show up on their profile, and if your group looks interesting to their contacts, they may click on it and join too. Add a description with plenty of keywords, include your website, and choose a group type. This will most likely be "Networking Group" or "Professional Group."
You have the option of choosing either:
• Open Access: Any LinkedIn member may join this group without requiring approval from a manager.
• Request to Join: Users must request to join this group and be approved by a manager.
You should always choose the former to reduce any barriers to building up your membership.
Once you have your group set up, you'll need to add content to it to keep people interested. Group members can start discussions, add news, and post job ads in your group (subject to the settings you choose), but you need to do some of the work too. Things you can add are
• Discussions—start a discussion topic or simply post a message to the Discussion area. As administrator, you can also make this a "featured" item that appears at the top of the list.
• Links—attach links to Discussions with a short description. One of the most useful options here is to automatically pull in your latest blog posts (see quick win).
• Job Ads—your group comes with a jobs board.
Add at least some content before inviting your contacts—even if it is just a welcome message. And don't invite everyone—just those who you think will be interested. Promote your group as you would with a Facebook group or any new social media channel you start using: Put it in your email signature, include a prominent link on your website, write a blog post about it, mention it in your next email newsletter, tweet about it, etc.
One of the benefits of groups—whether your own or someone else's that you post to—is that the items you submit to them are included in digest emails to group members who accept notifications from the group. With your own group, you can also send a message to all the members of your group, which sends an email as well as posting to the Discussion area. Use this sparingly (LinkedIn will only allow one of these per week) and think carefully about your message content, as you would with any other mass mailing. Because these emails come from linkedin.com, they have a high deliverability—they're less likely to get caught in spam filters.

Quick Win: Make your latest blog posts your group discussions
Keeping your LinkedIn group fresh is important since this is a way to deliver useful content to your target market. To save you having to update your group's discussions all the time, pull in the RSS feed from your blog.
• Go to the Manage tab of your group.
• Click on Manage news feeds.
• Add your RSS URL or simply your web address, and you're done.
You can even add several RSS feeds. And all your discussions—including your latest blog postings—get emailed to your members from LinkedIn, without you even having to visit LinkedIn to maintain your group.

Figure 12.7 Manage news feeds in LinkedIn groups

Create a LinkedIn event
Go to the More... tab at the top of your screen and choose Events.
Click on the Add an Event tab, and enter your event details. You can either click on the Add more details link at the bottom to add a blurb, keywords, a category and more for your event—or edit these in afterwards.
Your event is now live and will appear in your news feed for all your contacts to see. You also have the option to invite specific people from your network or promote your event with an ad.

Figure 12.8 Create a LinkedIn event

Figure 12.9 LinkedIn event
Offer your expertise on LinkedIn answers
The other powerful tool available to you on LinkedIn is Answers. You can ask questions of the LinkedIn network, or you can answer questions that others have asked—which can be great way to promote your expertise, build connections, and drive people to your website.

Figure 12.10 LinkedIn answers
Questions are categorized into a range of business-oriented categories and subcategories. You can browse these for the latest questions in your field or use the Advanced Search. Is your specialty intellectual property law? There's a subcategory for that:

Figure 12.11 Advanced answers search
On the results page for your category search you can browse all questions or just those that are still open by using the navigation tabs. You can also further refine your search using keywords and tick the show only unanswered questions if you want to be the first to offer an answer.

Figure 12.12 Search results for LinkedIn questions by category
Once you find a question you can answer helpfully and well, fill in your response. This will be visible to all LinkedIn users. If you've previously written a blog post about the topic, include that in the Web Resources field. Don't include your own web address here or elsewhere in your answer—the focus must be on providing useful information, and your name and job role will show up anyway.
If you know someone else who is even better placed to answer the question, click the Suggest Experts button. This helps the questioner and helps you build a connection with the expert you suggest.
The more you participate in LinkedIn Answers, the more authority, trust, and respect you will build. People who ask questions on LinkedIn can choose which answer they think was the best—so your focus should be on trying to provide the best answers in your chosen category. LinkedIn highlights the areas in which you've submitted the best answers in your profile and in the box with your name and position that shows up next to your answers.

Figure 12.13 Submitting a LinkedIn answer
Manage the workload
Now that LinkedIn has apps, it is possible to aggregate some of your other social media using the WordPress, Blog Link, and Tweets apps. That way you can keep the content on your LinkedIn profile fresh without logging in every day.
Keeping your LinkedIn group fresh is even more important since this is a way to deliver useful content to your target market, and from a highly deliverable LinkedIn email address too. To save you having to update your group's news items all the time, pull in the RSS feed from your blog.
To spread the workload of managing your group, you can promote up to nine members to manager status and up to 50 to moderator. Click the Manage tab and select the links from the left-hand menu.
Finally, don't forget to keep your LinkedIn status updates fresh. If you use www.tweetdeck.com to manage your Twitter accounts and Facebook or MySpace statuses, you can now also use this to update LinkedIn from the same interface. You can also automatically pull in your tweets to your LinkedIn status, but I'd recommend choosing the selective tweets option (only pulling in tweets ending #in) to keep the noise down.
"don't forget to keep your LinkedIn status updates fresh"
Measure your results
The number of contacts in your network is one measure, if a blunt one, of your success on LinkedIn. But it is the quality of those connections rather than the numbers that are important. Other metrics you should be looking to boost are
• your Group members since this can be a key opted-in mailing list for you on LinkedIn
• your ratings in LinkedIn Answers
• responses to your events
Use tracking links and discount codes to measure the effectiveness of LinkedIn for selling event registrations. Use your web-stats package to track the traffic coming to your site from LinkedIn and/or use unique URLs to measure its effectiveness in driving people to your site.
Take action
• Set up an account at www.linkedin.com.
• Create a profile. Keep it business-focused, include a link to your business, and solicit recommendations.
• Add connections and find more by searching.
• Join groups relevant to your business.
• Start your own group and pull your blog into its Discussions section.
• Create a LinkedIn event if you run events for business professionals.
• Sync with your Twitter account to reduce the amount of updates you need to do—but tweet selectively using the #in tag.
• Find some questions to answer and share your expertise.







Chapter 13. Tap into Twitter: How to use the power of the real-time Web to build a following
What are you doing right now? How about now? Now? That's quite annoying, isn't it? But it's a question answered millions of times a day by over 75 million users of Twitter, the world's fastest growing social network. For those who haven't yet dipped a toe in the collective stream of consciousness that is the Twitterverse, it seems a bit of a crazy idea. Much maligned by those who see only the egocentric inanity of it, there is far more to Twitter than "having a cup of tea" style status updates. It is used in a variety of creative ways by both individuals and businesses, to make connections, build a loyal following, create a useful news feed, and share links to articles, images, audio, and video.
What is Twitter?
If you're familiar with Facebook, Twitter is basically just the status update part of Facebook. It's a short update (or "tweet") that tells the world what you're up to, or indeed any message, as often as you like, in 140 characters or less. Twitter is described as a "microblogging" site, which suggests it is a content tool, made up of very short blog posts. While true, the way in which Twitter is now used is much more social, which makes me think of it as more of a social network and therefore an outreach tool. The truth lies somewhere in between.
"Twitter is basically just the status update part of Facebook"
Why does Twitter work for business?
The value of Twitter is in its ability to reach a vast yet niche audience of people who are interested in what you have to say. You can build a following as an authentic, trusted voice in your field. Its real-time "breaking news" aspect, plus its widespread use on mobile devices makes it a medium for providing valuable information for your community of interest where and when they want it. You can let people know what is going on right now, tweet breaking news, plus more commercial messages such as time-limited discounts and special offers.
Twitter becomes more or less useful depending on who you follow. For example, I follow a number of other social media enthusiasts on Twitter. At any one time, they are attending international conferences and live-tweeting from them, discussing latest trends and developments in the field and sharing links. It helps me keep current. If you can provide similarly useful information to your community, you will build a loyal following.
"Twitter becomes more or less useful depending on who you follow"
Twitter's usefulness is similar to building an email list—and it is an opt-in list since people have sought you out and chosen to follow you for the valuable, interesting content you provide. This may sometimes include news of your latest products, special offers, and relevant links to your blog or website.

Twitter in Action: Hippo (www.hippofighthunger.com)
In 2009, Indian food and beverage company Parle Agro launched a snack food brand called Hippo. Working with Creativeland Asia, they experimented with Twitter to crowdsource a solution to a problem: how to maintain retail inventory in a country the size of India.
The character of Hippo has been developed via a microsite (www.hippofighthunger.com), and in 2010 Hippo started tweeting from @HelloMeHippo and blogging at http://hippofighthunger.blogspot.com.
Competitions and giveaways are promoted via Twitter, and a high level of engagement with customers is achieved through replies and retweets and Hippo's unique take on the world, including current events. But the greatest business benefit is Hippo's request that people tweet him whenever they couldn't find Hippo in stores.

Figure 13.1 @HelloMeHippo ask for help
This has enabled Parle Agro to restock stores within hours and identify new markets. At zero cost, Hippo receives tweets from people in 25 cities equivalent to almost half its sales force. By using the real-time Web to match sales with demand more efficiently and increase sales by 76 percent in the first few months after launch.6
Get the idea: Use the size and real-time nature of Twitter, plus tweeters' willingness to help, to crowdsource a business function. And when it comes to engaging your audience, there's no reason why your Twitter account can't be a character tied strongly to your brand.

Get up to speed with Twitter
In this chapter we'll look at the essential steps you need to take to use Twitter effectively for your business.
1. Create your Twitter account.
2. Familiarize yourself with Twitter.
3. Get tweeting!
4. Build your followers.
Create your Twitter account
You can start to get a feel for Twitter at http://twitter.com without even creating an account. You can see what the current "trending topics" are (i.e., what people are tweeting about most often) and do a search yourself. But the best way to learn about the possibilities is to sign up and start tweeting.
1. Register an account at http://twitter.com/signup. You can change your "Full name," password and email later if you want—but think carefully about the username you choose since this will appear in the URL (e.g., http://twitter.com/jonreed). It's a bit like registering a web address. You can also change this later, but you're unlikely to want to once you build up a following. You can create a personal account, a business account, or both.
2. Upload a profile picture. The most essential graphical element is your profile picture. You must have one of these. If you stick with the default Twitter bird icon, you will not be taken seriously on Twitter, and it will be hard to attract followers. There is evidence to suggest that people like to see a person rather than a company logo, but it's really up to you.
3. Add a biography. You can also include a short (160 character) description, or biography. You might choose to make this a personal biography, or a description of your business. You can also keep changing this if you want, perhaps to focus on a particular project, product, service, or offer.
4. Include your web address. This appears prominently on your profile page. Think carefully about where you want to link to, and again you can change this whenever you want. You will probably want to link to the home page of your business site, but you may also want to link to your blog or to a special offer or a newly launched product or service. Many people will click this link to see who is behind the Twitter profile, so use it wisely.
5. Do NOT protect your updates. There is an option for you to pre-approve your followers, by selecting "protect my updates." Don't do this unless you want to be invisible on Twitter.
6. Customize your background. It is fairly easy to customize your color scheme: Just go to Settings, Design, and Change design colors (http://twitter.com/settings/design). You should choose colors that match your branding. But you can also click on Change background image from this screen and include a customized, branded background. There are advantages to doing this, including the opportunity to add a graphical sidebar that contains more information about your business. There is further information on how to do this at www.getuptospeed.biz/twitterback. But don't worry if you don't have a customized background, at least to start with—a lot of people will never see your Twitter page anyway since they'll follow your tweets on their own timeline, or via a smartphone or desktop application such as www.tweetdeck.com.
Familiarize yourself with Twitter
Finding your way around
Now, get to know the different elements of your Twitter page. This is the Profile page for this book's Twitter account, which is what you'll see if you go to http://twitter.com/getuptospeed.

Figure 13.2 Twitter profile page
Actually, that's what I see when I visit @getuptospeed when logged into my personal account as @jonreed. There's a big tick and "Following" to show I'm following this Twitter account. If I weren't, there would be a "Follow" button to click. On the right-hand column you'll see there's a link to the website for this book, a short bio, and you can click to see who I'm following, who is following me, and who has listed me. Further down, there is a list called "casestudies," which displays as @getuptospeed/casestudies, which visitors can view and follow if they wish. More on lists later.
If you hover over an individual tweet, it appears shaded and displays a few more options.

Figure 13.3 Additional options for individual tweets
• Click the star icon to "favorite" a tweet. Other people can see your favorites by clicking on the sidebar link, so choose these carefully. I tend to favorite any testimonials on my business accounts and also post these on my websites.
• Click Reply to send a public @ reply (a tweet that starts: "@getuptospeed").
• Click Retweet to pass on the tweet to your followers. You will be asked to confirm that you really want to do this.

Figure 13.4 Retweet button
And then the tweet will appear with a retweet icon in front of it on both its own and your Twitter page.

Figure 13.5 A retweeted tweet
If I log into Twitter as @getuptospeed, I see a different home page—one made up of a timeline of all the people I follow:

Figure 13.6 Twitter home page
I can still see the other view of my own tweets by clicking on Profile. But on this home page, I see a different right-hand sidebar, including links to:
• @getuptospeed—i.e., any tweets that include "@getuptospeed." These tweets are considered replies if they start with @getuptospeed and mentions if they include it elsewhere within the tweet.
• Direct Messages—these are private messages that only I can see, as opposed to an @ reply, which is in public.
• Favorites—any tweets I have favorited.
• Retweets—I can see any tweets that have been retweeted by people I follow; tweets that I have retweeted; and all my tweets that have been retweeted by others.

Figure 13.7 Keeping track of retweets
Further down the sidebar is a list of the top ten trending topics—the most commonly used words and phrases used on Twitter right now in the U.S. You can choose which region to show or select Worldwide.
Twitter lists
One of the newer developments with Twitter is Twitter lists. Anyone can add other Twitter users to a list and call it whatever they want. Just click the Lists button you see at the top of everyone's Twitter page and tick any existing lists you have or create a new one.
What is the advantage of this? Once you are following a lot of people, creating discrete lists will enable you to create a subset of followers, a different timeline to view, to filter out the noise. And it can create a useful list of people for others to follow too—in this case, the businesses who are mentioned in this book.

Figure 13.8 Adding people to Twitter lists

Figure 13.9 A Twitter list

Quick Win: Create a Twitter list widget
Go a stage further and import a Twitter list into your blog or website using the Twitter list widget. I do this with my Reed Media clients by adding a Twitter list widget that displays the list I've created at @reedmedia/clients to the "Clients" page of my website, showing what they are tweeting in real time. Do something similar to give your clients more prominence on your website or include a list of all your colleagues who are on Twitter.
• Go to http://twitter.com/goodies/widget_list.
• Your username will be included by default—but you can even create a list widget from someone else's list if you want, as long as they have made it public. Once you have the Twitter username you want to use, select the list you want from the drop-down menu.
• Enter whatever title and caption you want. You'll see a preview on the right-hand side.

Figure 13.10 Customize your Twitter list widget
• Click the Preferences, Appearance and Dimensions links on the left-hand side to customize further.
• Click Test settings to see your tweets appear.
• Click Finish & Grab Code.
• Add the code to your blog or website. You will only need to do this once since whenever you add a new person to your Twitter list, they will automatically show up in your widget too.

Figure 13.11 Preview your list widget and grab the code

Get Tweeting
You can tweet in the "traditional" way, to post updates about whatever you're doing this minute. But there is so much more you can do with Twitter, including tweeting your business blog, using the "real-time web" aspect of it to tweet latest news and time-limited discount codes, and—especially—to create a useful news feed for your community of interest. This will make them want to follow you, build an opted-in mailing list for you, and draw them on to your website. As with any form of social media, it's the usefulness of your content that will attract followers.
Here are my top 10 ways to make the most of Twitter:
1. Create a valuable news service
If you want people to follow you, create a useful feed to follow. That may be announcements or news and links about your industry or field and can help position you as an expert. It might be original tips you write yourself. A daily tip on your area of expertise can be a powerful way to build a following. But just keeping an eye on tweets in your area of interest, and retweeting them is in itself useful and a low-maintenance way to keep your tweets regular.
2. Include relevant links
Tweets are most useful when they include a relevant link to something useful or interesting. This may be a blog post, a news item, a press release, a YouTube video—almost anything. And to make sure you don't take up too much valuable space in your allocated 140 characters, use a free URL shortening service such as http://tinyurl.com, http://bit.ly, http://snipurl.com or http://is.gd. My favourite is http://bit.ly (pronounced "Bitly"), because you can use it with multiple Twitter accounts, and it comes with plenty of analytics that can give you an insight into how many people are clicking on your links.

Figure 13.12 Bit.ly
You can also add the "shorten with bit.ly" toolbar to your browser: simply click on Tools, then drag the Shorten with bit.ly link to your browser's toolbar. Go to a web page you want to share on Twitter, click the Shorten with bit.ly button that now appears on your toolbar and tweet it with your message to whichever Twitter account(s) you want.
Once you start including links in your tweets, they become more useful to your followers, and your Twitter feed becomes full of information that your community will value.
3. Tweet your blog
The best way to generate web traffic based on relevant, contextual links is to tweet your blog. You can set up an account with www.twitterfeed.com to link any blog to a Twitter account. Whenever you publish a new post, it will automatically tweet to your account with a link back to your blog post. Remember to include your own tweets as well as simply dumping links to your blog to maintain engagement with your audience and increase your followers. You might consider asking a question relevant to a blog post that has recently tweeted.
4. Link to pictures, audio and video
You can enhance your content by including links to the three other Internet content types: images, video and audio. Use http://twitpic.com, http://tweetphoto.com or http://yfrog.com to upload a picture with your tweet. Use www.twitvid.com or www.twiddeo.com to upload video. Tweet audio with http://audioboo.fm, such as quick client testimonials, short interviews at trade shows, or simply to speak directly to your customers.
5. Use Twitter as a search engine
Twitter can be a valuable source of market intelligence when used as a "listening tool" to find out what people are saying about you or your business sector. Twitter has a powerful, integrated search function in the sidebar on your page. You can also go to http://search.twitter.com. Both of these display the latest "trending topics." Most importantly, you can use it to find and follow people whose tweets include your keywords—search terms that are relevant to the community you're trying to reach.
6. Special offers and freebies
You can encourage followers by offering something for free to new followers—such as an e-book. Explain the offer in your biography or graphical sidebar, as well as on your website and anywhere else you want to attract people who are not yet on Twitter. You can set up an automatic welcome DM to new followers at www.tweetlater.com and include a link to the download. I'm not a fan of automatic DMs, even when you're giving something away—but not everyone objects. Another way to organize a giveaway is to use http://twiveaway.com to run a contest. Ask people to retweet a specific message over a given time period, and then pull, say, six names out of a hat to receive a free gift, all managed for you by Twiveaway. Another approach is to tweet regular time-limited discount codes—something that South African T-shirt store Spring Leap (@Springleap) have used successfully. For people who are interested in their products, it pays to follow them on Twitter since they'll have access to discounts. They also engage their community with competitions.

Figure 13.13 @Springleap offer a time-limited discount
7. Organize a tweet-up
Twitterers don't just sit in front of their computer screens all day—they like to get together at real-life meet-ups, or "tweet-ups." If you have a loyal following of people who are united by a common interest, consider organizing a get-together. It doesn't have to be a big event—a few drinks in a bar after work would do. You could provide free drinks by sponsoring the event yourself or even finding an external sponsor to put a tab behind the bar. And it's very easy to organize through Twitter using http://twtvite.com. If your business serves a local community, you might consider organizing and sponsoring a local tweet-up. Twestival (http://twestival.com) has raised half a million dollars for charity primarily through local tweet-ups throughout the world. The focus doesn't have to be purely social: You could also arrange a guest speaker or speak yourself on the topic of interest to your community. You might even consider charging for events that provide significant value to your followers.
"Twitterers like to get together at real-life meet-ups, or 'tweet-ups'"
8. Conduct market research
Social media enables you to stay close to your community, and this is useful for ad hoc market research. Ask your community what they think about a new product, service, or website. Create an online survey using www.surveymonkey.com and promote it via Twitter, do a poll with http://twtpoll.com, or simply ask a question with a tweet. When Rude Health Cereals owner Camilla Barnard (@rudehealth) wants some feedback on a new idea for a porridge flavor, she simply asks. And because it's not a focus group where people feel worried to speak up, she gets direct and honest feedback.
9. Ask for help
People are very willing to help out on Twitter. I offer advice where I can, but I also ask for it. Sometimes I ask for geek help such as "Do you know of a WordPress plugin that does X?" But because publishers and authors are also part of my community of interest, I also follow a lot of writers. A couple of months ago I tweeted "I want to go away for a week to focus on writing. Any suggestions?" I had several suggestions within the hour, including from a writer friend called Katharine (@kreeve), who I only know from Twitter: "@jonreed—suggest Alf Rescos in Dartmouth—top flat—excellent breakfasts and coffee; big table, mini kitchen, overlooking sea and Dart." And that is exactly where I am writing from—somewhere I would never have discovered without Twitter!
10. Improve customer service
Use the real-time web to respond to customers and even to take orders. Small, independent Houston-based coffee shop CoffeeGroundz (@CoffeeGroundz) is credited with taking the first "to-go" order on Twitter, from one of their regular customers, Sean Stoner (@maslowbeer). Because general manager J.R. Cohen is an avid tweeter, he quickly replied and this started a trend: "to-go" orders, table reservations and event bookings are now regularly taken from all their followers via Direct Message (DM). Together with free wi-fi, this has made the coffee shop a firm favorite of the local Twitterati, as well as gaining the business wider publicity.
Build your followers
Now that you're on Twitter with a nice branded profile, tweeting appropriately and engagingly and following key people in your community, it's time to build your followers. Why do you want to do this? Because building followers on Twitter is like building up your email list. Once you have a sizable list, you can announce your latest product, service, or event—as long as it is genuinely of interest to your followers and you're not doing a hard sell. Like an email list, you don't want people on there who are not interested in what you're offering. You don't want to randomly broadcast a wasted marketing message—you want to engage your fan base of followers who are actually interested in what you do.
"building followers on Twitter is like building up your email list"
The big secret is simply: Follow more people. About half will follow you back. OK, there is a bit more to it, and a few caveats. Here is my Five-Point Exploding Twitter Technique, for significantly increasing your followers while maintaining their value.
1. Only follow people who are in your community of interest
Follow people who are likely to be interested in you and follow you back. Where do you find them? One way is to do a keyword search for people who are tweeting about your topic, or look at who is tweeting from a conference within your industry by following the hashtag. A more efficient way is to find people like yourself, who are tweeting in your subject area—and follow their followers. Their followers are also likely to be interested in your tweets, if they're already following someone who is your "competition" in the Twitterverse. To find these people, look at some of the Twitter directories that sort people according to industry or topic, such as www.wefollow.com or www.twellow.com.
2. Stay within the Twitter follow limit
There is a limit—you can't just follow everyone. Twitter will stop you from following any new people once you hit the limit. However, that limit increases the more followers you have. Anyone can follow 2,000 people. After that, you can follow 10 percent more people than are following you. So, if you have 5,000 followers, you can follow 5,500 people.
3. Unfollow people who don't follow you back
Does that seem harsh? Not really. If people don't follow you back, they're clearly not that interested in what you have to say. Just like you don't want random, uninterested, disengaged people clogging up your email list, you don't want uninterested people taking up valuable space in your allowance of people you can follow. In this way you can free up space for new people to follow. You can find those people who you follow but who don't follow you by using http://friendorfollow.com.
4. Create content that people actually want to read
Finding followers is easy. Keeping them is harder. In the same way people can stop subscribing to your email newsletters, they can stop following you on Twitter. If you stay focused on engaging your followers with useful, interesting, regular content, you will not only keep your followers but also attract new ones. There's no real substitute for creating a useful news service.
5. Create community by using hashtags (#), retweets (RT) and replies (@)
By using Twitter in a social way, rather than treating it as a one-way broadcast medium, you increase the interest and value in your tweets, which will make you more interesting to follow. Hashtags are keywords that start with the # symbol and become hotlinks to a timeline of everyone tweeting with that hashtag in their tweets. They are popular at conferences, where delegates frequently tweet what is going on, with the hashtag (e.g., #lbf10 for the London Book Fair 2010). That means that everyone can follow what is going on—whether they are at the conference or not. Hashtags will also make you more visible to people doing keyword searches using hashtags. Do this authentically though—don't hijack a trending topic! Find out more about hashtags at www.getuptospeed.biz/hashtags.
This can be a bit time-consuming. But by following this strategy you can incrementally increase your followers to very high levels in a relatively short space of time. What's more, the people on the list you're building are all interested in what you have to say—and they have chosen to follow you! Even if you followed them first, the choice to follow you back is theirs, so this is an opted-in mailing list of people in your community of interest.
As your list of followers grows, your 10 percent allowance grows with it. And having a high number of followers also makes you more visible on Twitter since more people are likely to retweet your posts, and you appear higher up in your sector in the Twitter directories. This means you may only need to actively increase your followers when you first start using Twitter since, once you reach a critical mass of followers, your Twitter success will build on itself.
"having a high number of followers also makes you more visible on Twitter"
Manage the workload
So how will you find time for all those updates? Like other forms of social media, the key is to integrate it into your working life.
On your desktop
There are also various desktop widgets and applications you can download which provide a running "tick" of your friends' tweets in real time on your desktop. TweetDeck (www.tweetdeck.com) is particularly useful if you have multiple Twitter accounts, since you can manage and update all of them—plus Facebook, MySpace and LinkedIn—from a single browser interface. You can set up as different columns for each account. Mine include: a column showing all the people I follow on my personal @jonreed account; a column showing replies from all my Twitter accounts, so that I can respond to anything I need to; and a column displaying the results of a Twitter search for the keyword "publishing," which enables me to keep an eye on any interesting tweets and links that might be interesting to my @publishingtalk followers. I can then retweet them with a couple of clicks—it takes no time at all. You can use this feature to monitor keywords or hashtags, for example if you're following the action at a conference via Twitter.

Figure 13.14 TweetDeck
On the move
If you have an iPhone, you can download one of several apps, including Twitterific, Tweetie, Echofon and TweetDeck. These also integrate automatically with Twitpic or Tweetphoto, so you can take a photo with your phone and upload it with your tweet. You can also do all this via mobile Internet. And if you don't have a smartphone, you can simply text your tweet to a specific number you can find in your account settings. Tweeting is a great thing to do whenever you have a minute of dead time: waiting for a client to arrive, on the train, waiting for the bus, etc.
Share the workload
The flipside of managing multiple Twitter accounts with TweetDeck is to have several people managing one Twitter account. Use Cotweet for this (www.cotweet.com), which is used by many businesses. You can also assign updates to colleagues for follow-up and "on duty" notifications.
Schedule
Write your tweets in advance and schedule them over time with http://hootsuite.com, which also has a wealth of other tools to manage your tweets and analyze your impact. You can also schedule tweets for future release using TweetDeck.
Aggregate
Other ways include using an aggregator like www.ping.fm, from where you can write status updates and have them sent where you wish, including Twitter and Facebook. Use FriendFeed to aggregate all your social media, including Twitter accounts, blog feeds, Flickr photos, YouTube videos, and many many more.
Integrate
Once you have FriendFeed set up, use the Facebook FriendFeed app to pull all those updates back into your Facebook profile. You can also have your tweet automatically become your Facebook status update, again reducing the need to be in two places at once. You can use the Twitter app in Facebook to do this; or, if you want to be selective about which tweets become Facebook status updates and manage multiple Twitter accounts and multiple Facebook pages, use the Selective Tweet Status app in Facebook (http://apps.facebook.com/selectivetwitter). Automatically have your new blog posts tweet to your account, using www.twitterfeed.com.
You should, of course, link to your Twitter account from your website or blog. But you can go a stage further than this and reimport your latest tweets into your website using a widget. You can set up and customize widgets at http://twitter.com/goodies/widgets. If you use a WordPress blog, you can also pull your tweets into your blog using one of many plugins available, such as Twitter Tools (www.alexking.org/projects/wordpress).
"go a stage further and reimport your latest tweets into your website"
Measure your results
Finally, has it all been worth it? How do you know if your Twitter strategy is a success? Because Twitter makes their programming interface open to anyone, there is a vast amount of third-party tools out there to help you.
1. Count the numbers. How many followers do you have? You can track the trend over time using www.twittercounter.com. You can look up anyone's follower stats—not just your own—and show off your own web stats with a TwitterCounter badge on your website.

Figure 13.15 Twitter counter statistics
2. Find out more about your followers. www.twitteranalyzer.com is a useful tool that will give you lots of analytics, including where your followers are geographically. This is useful for deciding, say, which currency to price your products in, and when to tweet based on time zone. For example, I know that about 50 percent of my @publishingtalk followers are in the U.S.—so there's little point in me tweeting before midday in the UK since half my followers haven't woken up yet.
3. Measure engagement. The amount of retweets and replies you get will give you a clue. Like a blog, you could work out a conversational index based on your number of @replies divided by updates. You could also use a sophisticated tool from TweetMeme called TweetMeme Analytics (http://tweetmeme.com/about/analytics), which gives you data on click-throughs, retweets, user demographics, most influential users, and even the path through Twitter that your retweets take.
4. Analyze your web stats. The amount of traffic that comes to your website from Twitter can be gleaned from a web-stats package that includes Twitter as a traffic source. I use Clicky for this (www.getclicky.com).
5. Unique URLs. If you use unique landing pages, you can be even more forensic about who is taking action as a result of your tweets. You can use one for your main URL on your profile—that will tell you how many people are clicking through to your website from your profile page. Or if you are tweeting a call to action, such as announcing a new product, inviting people to download a white paper, or promoting a special offer, you may want to use a unique landing page in your tweet too. You probably won't want to do this too often since each one will take a little while to set up, but it will give you some very accurate stats about how many people are taking action in response to a specific tweet.
6. Look up your ranking. Use services like www.twitterrank.com and www.twittergrader.com to see where you rank and look yourself up in directories such as www.wefollow.com.
Take action
• Set up your Twitter account.
• Customize your page with a profile picture and a background.
• Follow people in your community of interest.
• Link to your blog.
• Provide a useful news service.
• Manage the workload with www.tweetdeck.com.
• Tweet, retweet, and repeat!







Chapter 14. Jack into the Matrix: How to make real money in virtual worlds
Virtual worlds, such as Second Life (http://secondlife.com), have the appearance of video games yet the functionality of social networks. They are harder to use than social networks, because you have to learn the interface first; and the hype and publicity surrounding them a few years back has now died down; but they should be treated like any other online social space: If your market spends time there, so should you.
What are virtual worlds?
Virtual worlds look like video games—but aren't. The "characters" are in fact avatars—virtual representations of real people, behind their keyboards, all over the world.
Virtual worlds include World of Warcraft, Club Penguin (www.clubpenguin.com—owned by Disney and aimed at children), Entropia Universe (www.entropiauniverse.com) and Second Life (http://secondlife.com). It is even possible to create your own virtual world with an application called Unity (http://unity3d.com).
Launched in 2003 by Linden Labs, Second Life is by far the largest virtual world, with 18 million registered accounts as of January 2010—although reliable figures for active residents are hard to come by. Because of its size, its proven business models and its real economy, Second Life is the virtual world most suited to promoting your business and the one that I will therefore mostly focus on in this chapter.
"Second Life is the virtual world most suited to promoting your business"
Second Life (SL) has many of the same features as the real world—shops, universities, museums, nightclubs, even government departments. Sweden has an embassy there, and the UK National Health Service has a virtual outpost run jointly with Imperial College London. Many universities have virtual campuses in SL, including Harvard, MIT, Ohio University, The Open University, and the London School of Journalism, who require their students to attend at least one lecture in SL. Education is one area where Second Life seems to be finding its niche.
Virtual worlds are not for everyone—and they're not going to be the first social media tool you go for. While in some ways a virtual world is just another social network—albeit one with a rich 3D graphical interface—the barriers to using them are considerable. You first have to download the software and learn the interface.
Why virtual worlds work for business
Second Life works for business in the same way any social network does. People make connections with each other in Second Life and build up lists of friends and join groups related to their interests. As with any social network, if your community of interest is in SL, then you should be too.
Second Life can be used for business in the following ways:
1. Developing products. Second Life can be useful for creating 3-D representations of your products, which can be useful for prototyping products inexpensively and getting valuable market research feedback, whether they're eco-homes, a new mass transit system—or wind-up toys, as successfully trialled in SL by Little Wonders Studio (http://littlewonderstudio.com).
2. Promoting real-life products. Fashion designers have sold virtual clothing as a way of promoting real-life brands; but you could also set up (virtual) shop with click-throughs from virtual products to real products on your website. How about selling virtual jewelry for avatars—but also offering real-life jewelry via links from your virtual shop to your e-commerce website? Ideally your brand should work in both SL and in the real world.
3. Promoting real-life services. You can promote your services in a variety of ways, including putting up virtual posters and organizing events or seminars. This can work well if you have a techy service to offer.
4. Selling virtual products. It is also possible to make a living in SL by selling purely virtual products. Anything you create in SL, using its own scripting language, you own the intellectual property to and can sell in-world. Residents in SL customize their avatars by buying not only clothing but also skin, hair, body shapes and gestures such as dance moves. The in-world currency is Linden Dollars (L$)—but these can be exchanged on the "Lindex"—a market-driven currency exchange—for real cash. At the time of writing the exchange rate is around £$250 to the US$.
5. Selling virtual land. This is how Anshe Chung made her millions. And that's millions of U.S. dollars, not Linden dollars. Anshe Chung is the avatar of Ailin Graef—a former school and college teacher. She has built an online business around the development and brokerage of virtual land in Second Life—a business that has made her a U.S. millionaire and got her on to the front cover of Business Week in 2006. In 2004 she began selling and creating custom animations and then used this money to buy and develop virtual land. She now owns hundreds of servers' worth of land, most of which are sold or rented to other users as a part of her "Dreamland" areas. In November 2006 Chung announced that she had become the first online personality to achieve a net worth exceeding one million dollars from profits entirely earned inside a virtual world. Anshe Chung's business now employs more than 80 people full time, most of them programmers and artists. She counts several Fortune 100 companies among her clients. And all this was achieved over a period of two and a half years, and from an initial investment of $10. Virtual world, virtual land: real money.
6. Meeting clients and suppliers. If you have clients or suppliers in SL—or if you want to find some—it is possible to do business in SL by having meetings. This can be useful if you want to get together a group of people from around the world. Yes, you could do this using Skype or videoconferencing, but the experience of meeting someone in SL as your avatar is qualitatively different.
7. Training. The experience of virtual interaction with people is one reason why education works well in SL—not just for university courses, but also for seminars, workshops, and sales meetings. If your business involves any form of training, and you have a market in SL, consider running a seminar there. You can even stream in PowerPoint slides, audio, and video.
Thousands of residents make part or all of their real-life income from their Second Life businesses. Some of these include
• party and wedding planner
• fashion designer
• custom avatar designer
• jewelry maker
• architect
• fine artist
• musician
• publisher
• writer
• publicist
See more at: http://secondlife.com/whatis/businesses.php.

Virtual Worlds in Action: Virtual Farmers Market (www.vfmuk.com)
Marcus Carter has taken a novel approach to virtual world marketing. Instead of trying to tap into an existing community on Second Life, he has created his own community around his business, facilitated by his very own, original virtual world: the Virtual Farmers Market.

Figure 14.1 Virtual Farmers Market
Built using the Unity gaming platform (http://unity3d.com), this is on a smaller scale than Second Life, but is a similar 3D graphical representation of a farmers' market, where customers can walk around—and they can interact with the suppliers, who are based in the UK and Ireland, by clicking on a stall to be taken to the relevant part of the website, where food producers explain more about their wares via video.
Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Food Programme in March 2010, three months after launch, he described it as "an alternative for people who haven't got time to go to a real-life farmers' market, and therefore miss out on some great food. It's hard for a small food company to make a big noise online. If you make a really nice chili jam and launch a website, it's very hard to get people to come to your website as one producer with one product. So I'm trying to form a collection of 55 of the UK's best producers, so that people can come and find them, learn about the food, and then go on and shop with everything into one basket and have it delivered to your home." Many of the independent food producers don't even have their own websites, so this is a way for them to come together to reach a national audience online.
Through the virtual interface and video material, Virtual Farmers Market replicates the experience of visiting a farmers' market as closely as is possible online. It works for the same reason many other forms of online marketing work for a small business: by building trust and communicating authentically and directly with customers. This is what has helped drive orders—even from customers who were previously distrustful of online shopping. The videos really get across the personalities of the food producers and help build a connection with the product: "You're not buying Dave's chili oil; you're buying Dave and his chili oil."
Get the idea: Creating your own virtual world is more complex than using Second Life but can be an effective way to provide a rich shopping interface for your customers that is closely tied to your website. When thinking virtually, don't limit yourself to the video game style interface provided: Use video material and click-throughs to further information on your website to enhance the experience.

Get up to speed with virtual worlds
We will focus on Second Life for the rest of this chapter. These are the steps you need to follow:
1. Download Second Life and create an account.
2. Customize your avatar.
3. Build a community of contacts.
4. Buying land, virtual architecture, and scripting.
Download Second Life and create an account
Sign up for a free account at http://secondlife.com and download the software. You can upgrade later to a paid-for premium account that allows you to own land and build on if you want—but you're unlikely to need this to start with. Every avatar has a unique name that is different from your real name. When you sign up, you can choose from a long but restricted list of last names, and any first name you wish, as long as your full avatar name is available. My avatar name is Jon Kerang. You need to know that if you want to find me in SL—it's a bit like a username.
"every avatar has a unique name that is different to your real name"
When you start out in SL, you're first sent to Welcome Island to learn the basics of SL—how to walk, talk, stand/sit, use the camera controls, fly and teleport. Everything you need to get around and use the platform.

Figure 14.2 Second Life Welcome Island
For many years, people communicated in SL via text-based chat—like instant messaging. Then in 2007, voice was introduced. Residents can wear a headset in real life, and speak normally in Second Life—a bit like using Skype. But the immersive 3D sound design means that if someone approaches you from the side, they sound in the right place.
Once you have learned the basics, you're released into Second Life. You can search for places to visit using the search button at the bottom of your screen—and then teleport there. You can also search for groups and people. Second Life is built on islands. That's not a metaphor—they are literally virtual representations of tropical islands, complete with beaches, palm trees, and seagulls. Plus anything that people have built on them.
To find out more about what SL looks like before signing up for an account, do a search for "Second Life" on YouTube—there are plenty of "machinima" to be found there—videos made within SL. The London School of Journalism, for example, videos their lectures within SL and puts them on YouTube.
Customize your avatar
One of the first things you are likely to want to do in Second Life is to go shopping! You start your Second Life with a basic avatar, but you may want to change the looks Linden gave you. Click the Search button at the bottom of your screen to search for "clothing," or whatever you want to buy for your avatar to find a likely list of shops and islands. Don't forget you can also buy body shapes, skins, and hair. Although you can edit your appearance manually, you are much better off buying a professionally designed look. And if you want to look just how you do in real life, there are people in SL who will design you a photorealistic avatar if you supply good-quality images.
There are various "freebie" islands in SL where you can acquire free clothing and other items. Anything you buy—or are given—appears in your Inventory.
Update your profile details by selecting "Profile..." from the Edit menu. This is the SL equivalent of filling in your personal profile, and you have the opportunity to include groups you are a member of, your interests, a profile image, and a paragraph of blurb about you—for both your Second Life and your First Life—and a web address. Be sure to include your business website here.
Build a community of contacts
Search for groups in your area of interest, check out the islands on which they are based, subscribe to the group's newsletter, attend any events that are running there, and start making contacts. If you already know other people who are in SL, do a search for their avatar name and click "Add Friend..."
Buying land, virtual architecture, and scripting
The more advanced topics of buying land and creating buildings and other objects in SL are beyond the scope of this book. But as you make connections in SL, you are likely to come across people who can help you. You can even place an ad in SL's classified listings via the screen where you edit your profile.

Quick Win: Using posters and dispensers
If there is a community in Second Life that seems relevant to your business, there is a very easy way to promote yourself to its members without terraforming an island, or hiring a virtual architect. First of all, find your community by doing a keyword search in SL, and look for those groups related to your business that have the largest population size. Very often they will be based on a specific island within SL, and there are likely to be advertising opportunities on the islands.
The cheapest and easiest options are posters or dispensers. A poster is literally a virtual poster or billboard that you can put on the wall of the building in SL for a specified time (where the person who manages the island permits it). Sometimes you will see "advertise here" messages on buildings; sometimes you will need to approach the person who runs the island direct. Have a graphic designer produce a poster for you promoting your business to the size and format specified. Submit it to the island owner along with a link to your website. When someone touches your poster in SL, they will then click through to your website. You can measure the effectiveness of this by using a tracking link or unique landing page.

Figure 14.3 A dispenser on Cookie Island
The other option is to use a dispenser. This is the only form of advertising I use in SL. A dispenser is a graphical representation of the newspaper dispenser, and works well for promoting blogs. There is a large and active community of writers in SL in a group called The Written Word, based on Cookie Island. I have a Publishing Talk dispenser in the main square of Cookie Island which says "Touch here for the latest edition." When someone touches the dispenser they click through to the Publishing Talk blog. There are additional dispensers in virtual bookshops on the island and elsewhere in SL.

Manage the workload
You don't need to spend a lot of time in SL. Even if you own an office building or shop that gets a lot of passing trade, you can automate it and don't need to staff it by being there, unless you have a specific event or launch party to host. Shops run themselves in SL—people click items to buy them.
It is not worth your time learning how to script objects in SL unless you are truly fascinated by it. Hire a programmer or virtual architect who can create objects and buildings to your design.
Measure your results
Your metrics in SL may include the number of:
• Residents in a group you create.
• Click-throughs to your website from a poster or other in-world object.
• Residents who attend your party, seminar, or other event.
• Views of a YouTube video created as a "machinima" within SL.
Take action
• Sign up to Second Life.
• Customize your avatar.
• Join some groups and make connections.
• Investigate advertising opportunities in-world, such as posters, dispensers, classified ads, and ads in in-world newspapers.
• Consider whether it is worth owning land and setting up shop in SL.







Chapter 15. Pass it on: How to be discovered on social bookmarking sites
Once you've created your website, search engine marketing (SEM) will help people find it on Google and other search engines (see Chapter 4). But there's another way people can discover your content and therefore your business: using social bookmarking sites. The reason for creating the content you produced in Part 3—blogs, podcasts, video and images—was to create something of value for your community that will draw them on to your site and that they will want to pass on and share. Although you can—and should—promote that content yourself, nothing beats your community passing it on for you. This chapter will show you how to make it easy for them to do so.
What is social bookmarking?
Have you come across a website you liked recently and saved it to the "bookmarks" on your browser so you could easily find it again later? It's a handy feature that all browsers come with. Social bookmarking is exactly the same—except that you do it in public. Because you can also add notes and keyword tags to the pages you save, other people can use social bookmarking sites to find links that other people have saved. Social bookmarking is therefore a form of social search—an approach to searching where the best web pages are chosen by humans rather than computer algorithms.
"social bookmarking is a form of social search"
Three of the most popular social bookmarking sites are Delicious, Digg, and StumbleUpon. Each takes a slightly different approach to bookmarking.
Why social bookmarking works for business
There are two ways you can use social bookmarking sites to enhance the discoverability of your content—and therefore your business:
1. Bookmark web pages you think will be interesting to your community.
2. Encourage others to bookmark your web pages with social bookmarking buttons.
If you bookmark web pages yourself, you can build up a useful resource of sites and pages that is useful to your community and will draw them on to your own site. You can create a basic profile on all these sites and connect with others. If you include your business website on your profile, it's another way to lead people back on to your site.
And once you've created such a resource, you can pull your latest saved links back on to your website in the form of a widget, leveraging your workload, keeping your content fresh, giving people another reason to visit your site.
You can also use these sites as "listening tools" to find out which pieces of your content people are saving, and what they are saying about you. You can find out which content items are most popular, which will give you feedback on which types of content you should create.
But the biggest business benefit to social bookmarking sites is that they facilitate the "pass-on-ability" of your content. While not everyone will share your content with others, those that do are likely to be active in the social media space, and be a trusted voice within their own online community. They are "sneezers"—active content consumers who will translate and repeat your message to their friends. That's a very powerful form of word of mouth marketing. Tap into it by participating in social bookmarking sites and making it easy for your fans to spread the word by using social bookmarking buttons that encourage people not only to save your web pages to Delicious, Digg, StumbleUpon, etc., but also to take actions such as "Tweet this," "Share on Facebook" and more.
"sneezers—active content consumers who will translate and repeat your message"

Social Bookmarking in Action: BBQ Addicts (www.bbqaddicts.com)
Jason Day and Aaron Chronister have turned their passion for barbeques into a business. They run a website called BBQ Addicts from Kansas City, featuring recipes, reviews, and products relating to barbequing. They had a massive spike in traffic to their website, thanks to a recipe widely shared on social bookmarking sites.
It started with a tweet from a bacon lover asking what the barbequers could do with bacon. The "Bacon Explosion" was born—a 5,000 calorie bacon-stuffed, bacon-wrapped Italian sausage with Kansas City barbeque sauce, smoked in a blend of oak and hickory wood. The recipe appeared on their website two days before Christmas 2008 (www.bbqaddicts.com/blog/recipes/bacon-explosion). On Christmas Day, traffic spiked to 27,000 visitors.7 Within a month, the site had 16,000 sites linking to it and hundreds of thousands of visitors8—traffic that is vital for their advertising revenue as well as the products they sell.
How was this achieved, and in such a short timescale? They tweeted about the recipe to their 1,200 followers and used other social networks to share the recipe. But Aaron says that the main driver of traffic was social bookmarking sites—particularly StumbleUpon, a site that serves up content to match people's interests. Each post on the site includes links to "Stumble it," "Digg this," "Tweet this," and "Add to Delicious" to encourage people to spread the word. The recipe appeared on the front page of StumbleUpon for three days.
The phenomenon was then picked up by traditional media and reported in the New York Times, on CNN, Fox News, Good Morning America and more, creating more exposure for them and their site. The recipe has become so popular that they now also sell a range of heat-and-eat versions of the Bacon Explosion from their website—and their new-found fame has led to a recipe book, BBQ Makes Everything Better (Scribner, May 2010).
Of course, the real secret of their success was to have some compelling content that people wanted to share in the first place—and there's really no substitute for that. The "extreme" nature of the recipe, and its timing around the holiday season, helped too. But by making that content easy to share on social networks and social bookmarking sites, it was possible to capitalize on that interest, generate a vast amount of web traffic—and then build on that success.
Get the idea: Make sure you use social bookmarking buttons on all your blog posts to make it easy for your visitors to share your content. But always remember that you must also create compelling content that people will want to share.

Get up to speed with social bookmarking
Experiment with a few different social bookmarking sites to see how they might work for you. But the most important thing to do is to enable people to easily share your content, such as your blog posts, on social bookmarking sites, and on their networks such as Facebook, Twitter, or LinkedIn.
1. Save some sites to Delicious.
2. Digg for victory.
3. StumbleUpon some new sites.
4. Add social bookmarking buttons to your blog.
Save some sites to Delicious
Sign up for an account with www.delicious.com. Be sure to include your business website in your profile, as this will show up on the list of bookmarks you have saved.

Figure 15.1 Publishing Talk's Delicious bookmarks
Install the toolbar on your browser. When you want to add a site to Delicious, you can either do this on the Delicious site itself, or simply go to the site you want to save, and click the TAG button on your toolbar.

Figure 15.2 The Delicious toolbar
The following dialog box pops up. Add a title, some notes if you want, and be sure to add some tags, as this will help people find the site you've bookmarked. Delicious will suggest some for you, but you can add your own.

Figure 15.3 Saving a bookmark to Delicious
Link your Delicious account to Twitter, and when you click Save, you also automatically tweet the link. Delicious adds its own shortened "icio.us" URL.

Figure 15.4 A tweeted Delicious link
This can therefore be a way for people to share as well as bookmark content. As with all social bookmarking tools you can bookmark your own content as well as other people's—but don't do this excessively and make sure you bookmark plenty of other people's sites too. Your goal is really to become part of the community and make it easy for that community to bookmark your content.

Quick Win: Add your Delicious links to your blog or website
The sites you save can be a useful resource for your community, which draws them from Delicious onto your blog or website. And with the tools Delicious provides, you can also create an instant list of interesting sites for your community right on your blog. This keeps your content fresh and gives people another reason to keep coming back to your blog.
• Go to http://delicious.com/help/tools to find the tools you can use to promote your Delicious feed.
• Select Linkrolls (http://delicious.com/help/linkrolls) for a bit of HTML code that you can add to your blog or website to display the latest pages you have bookmarked in Delicious.

Figure 15.5 A Delicious Linkroll
• Alternatively, select Tagrolls (http://delicious.com/help/tagrolls) to display a tag cloud of keywords with which you have tagged the sites you have saved. Tags are displayed in larger text the more frequently they are used. Clicking any of these words will link to a list of web pages you have saved and tagged with that keyword.

Figure 15.6 A Delicious Tagroll

Digg for victory
Digg is like an online newspaper and is sometimes called a "social news site." Instead of an editor choosing the front page, and what goes in the various sections—such as Business & Finance, Technology or Arts & Culture—it is the readers who decide what content is included—from news to articles to video and images. This content is not created by Digg, but submitted from all over the Internet by Digg users, by clicking on a "Digg this" button next to a piece of web content such as a blog post. The more votes or "Diggs" an item gets, the more visible it becomes on Digg. Story popularity can go down as well as up, as users can also vote to "Bury" an item if they don't like it. The ones with the most votes appear on the front page—though this is very hard to achieve. If you do make it to the front page, expect to attract a significant amount of web traffic back to your site—potentially tens of thousands of visitors in a single day.
"Digg is like an online newspaper, and is sometimes called a 'social news site'"

Figure 15.7 Digg
Digg is also a social network, in the sense that you can add a profile and connect with friends. Be sure to fill in your profile and include a link to your business website. To get the most out of Digg, participate in the community by Digging other people's content (not just your own!) and connecting with other users that share your interests. You can also connect with your Facebook account to automatically add those Facebook friends who already use Digg to your friends list and to post your Digg activity in your Facebook feed.
You can, and should, submit your own content to Digg. Make sure the content you submit will be of interest to a large number of people on Digg, and fits into their subject categories. Choose your best content items—not every single blog post. Certain categories are more popular on Digg, particularly anything techy.
"certain categories are more popular on Digg, particularly anything techy"
The first step is to log in to Digg, click the Submit New link at the top of the page and then enter the URL of the content you're submitting. Specify whether this is a News Article, Video, or Image.

Figure 15.8 Submit news, video, or images to Digg
You then need to add a title and description and choose a category. Space is limited here, so make sure you write a good title that will encourage people to click on it. Often people will Digg content based on the title alone. Like blog articles, titles that grab attention include "how to" and list-based articles, such as "10 ways to..."

Figure 15.9 Submit a link to Digg
Once you've started Digging some articles, as with Delicious, you can pull in the latest stories you've Dugg on to your blog with a widget. In fact, you can choose what to show from a wide variety of variables. I would suggest doing it by your username.

Figure 15.10 Create a Digg widget

Figure 15.11 A Digg widget
StumbleUpon some new sites
If Digg is a social news site, StumbleUpon is a social discovery site, with around 9 million members who are basically channel surfing through the Internet. When you sign up to an account with StumbleUpon, you are invited to choose from a wide range of topics that interest you. You can update this any time at http://www.stumbleupon.com/settings/interests, and StumbleUpon also learns what you like. One of the interest category lists is "Suggested."
Install the browser toolbar, and you have a range of new buttons to help you Stumble. The Stumble! button simply opens a random web page that may interest you. This is based on your interests and the popularity of the page with other Stumblers.
The default setting is "All"—i.e., all the interests you have entered—but you can narrow the search down by selecting a single topic, such as Entrepreneurship. The thumbs-up and thumbs-down buttons allow you to vote on pages and helps StumbleUpon learn your preferences.

Figure 15.12 StumbleUpon
Whenever you thumbs-up a web page, it appears in your favorites at www.stumbleupon.com/favorites. You can also add descriptions ("reviews") and tags to the pages you save.
Like Digg, you can make friends on StumbleUpon—though they're called "subscribers." A list of your subscribers and subscriptions (people whose favourites you have subscribed to) appears in your profile. To find people to subscribe to, start by thumbs-upping content you like, and click the Info button on your StumbleUpon toolbar to see who else liked that page—and consider subscribing to them. They are likely to be interested in the same things you are and content that you submit. And if they visit your profile and click the Stumble button, they will be shown only sites that you have thumbed-up—which may include your own content. You can submit content via the StumbleUpon site as well as by thumbs-upping it from your toolbar.
StumbleUpon has one big advantage over Digg: It is easier to generate web traffic. Whereas Digg is rather feast or famine—you get vast amounts of traffic for a few days if you make it to the front page, and very little if you don't—StumbleUpon builds your traffic over time as more people give you the thumbs up. And if you want more traffic from StumbleUpon, you can pay for it with ads at https://www.stumbleupon.com/ads, targeted at visitors' areas of interest.
"StumbleUpon has one big advantage over Digg: It is easier to generate web traffic"
Add social bookmarking buttons to your blog
Participating in social bookmarking communities is one way of encouraging people to pass on your content. But the most effective thing you can do to encourage your content to be shared on social bookmarking sites—apart from creating compelling, remarkable content—is to add some buttons to the bottom of every blog post. These enable people to submit your content to the social sites they use without having to go to the site and enter the details manually.
There are many WordPress plugins that will do this for you and provide dozens of alternative buttons to choose from. I like one called Sexy Bookmarks (http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/sexybookmarks), which has nicely styled buttons with drop-shadows that pop up when you hover over them. You can display as many as you like, but I use a single row of buttons to keep things uncluttered and focus on the sites I'm most interested in being promoted on: Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, MySpace, FriendFeed, Delicious, Digg, StumbleUpon, and Technorati.

Figure 15.13 Sexy Bookmarks—a WordPress plugin to display social bookmarks on your blog posts
The newest button to appear on these plugins is the Google Buzz button—which is used to share content with Gmail and Google Reader users. Some plugins display text instead of graphical buttons; some, including Sexy Bookmarks, show text such as "Tweet this," "Share on Facebook," "Digg this," etc., when you hover over the buttons. You can also add the Digg button to your site which people can click on to increase your Digg votes without even leaving your site.
Using TweetMeme (www.tweetmeme.com), you can also display a "retweet" button at the top of your blog post and have access to additional metrics on the TweetMeme site.

Figure 15.14 TweetMeme retweet button
This is a bit like Digg for Twitter since it displays how many people have retweeted the content using the service, and TweetMeme also has a front page and categories displaying the most popular articles retweeted. ShareThis (http://sharethis.com) is also popular and also keeps a tally of the number of "shares" or a particular piece of content.

Figure 15.15 ShareThis
Whichever option you choose, make sure you make it easy for your community to pass on and share your content.

Figure 15.16 Recent links on TweetMeme
Manage the workload
Don't feel you have to use every social bookmarking site—or indeed any at all. The most important thing is to enable others to bookmark your content easily using social bookmarking buttons. That's as easy as installing a WordPress plugin and only needs doing once.
If you do want to bookmark sites yourself, choose one that you like and stick to it. It is better to build up a comprehensive list of useful links than spread yourself too thinly across all the sites. And once you've started to create a useful resource, repurpose it by pulling in the Delicious bookmarks you've saved or the stories you've Dugg into your blog with a widget.
Measure your results
Most of the social bookmarking sites have some way of measuring how often your content appeared on them. Simply doing a search for your business, brand, blog, or website will show you how many people have bookmarked your content.
Delicious gives you plenty of drill-down detail and can be useful as a listening tool: to find out what other people are saying about you. Do a search on the Delicious site for your business and see which of your content items are the most popular, who bookmarked them, what tags they used, and how they described them. This can give you some ideas about which of your blog posts are the most popular—so you can write more like that.
"Delicious can be useful as a listening tool"
StumbleUpon has analytics available at http://su.pr. This helps you track the performance of your posts in real time, view your traffic, clicks, referrers, Stumbles, and retweets in one place.
If you're interested in who is tweeting your content, the most sophisticated analytics are offered by TweetMeme Analytics (http://tweetmeme.com/about/analytics). This enables you to discover how your content has spread through Twitter, which path it took, who retweeted it, which Twitter users were most influential in retweeting your content, which retweets resulted in more click-throughs to your content and more. This detailed information will give you valuable feedback for improving the performance of your content on Twitter.
Your main aim is to get people to share your stuff. These metrics will all help you measure how successful you have been at persuading them to do so.
Take action
• Save some sites to Delicious, Digg, and StumbleUpon.
• Choose which social bookmarking site(s) you will use and create a widget for your blog.
• Add social bookmarking buttons to your blog.
• Consider using the TweetMeme button and TweetMeme Analytics to see how your content spreads on Twitter.
• Create compelling content that people will want to pass on.







Part Five: Get help







Chapter 16. Do you need a consultant?: How to find someone to help you achieve your vision
There is a huge amount you can do yourself to promote your business online, cheaply, easily, and effectively. It is good to do many things yourself, such as writing blog posts and status updates, to retain your own authentic, personal voice. But it doesn't hurt to call in a bit of help when you need it—either to help you plan your marketing, do the technical media production tasks, or simply to save time that you could better spend doing what you do best—running your business. Follow the advice of management guru Peter Drucker: "Do what you do best, and outsource the rest."
"it doesn't hurt to call in a bit of help when you need it"
But first, a word of caution. There are an awful lot of marketing consultants out there. How do you cut through the hyperbole and inflated claims and decide who is worth your time and hard-earned money? In particular, in the past couple of years, a plethora of social media consultants have appeared. It's getting so that the term "social media consultant" is attracting negative connotations, even though it is the most accurate description of what some of us do. Some consultants do great work for their clients. Some are more hype than help. Some people will tell you they can make you fabulously wealthy with little or no effort. This is unlikely. Some will promise to boost your Twitter followers by extraordinary volumes, often using illegal automated scripts or "bots."
Some will offer to manage your social media presence or ghost-write your blog. While this may work for some people, I would be very cautious about handing over my online reputation to someone else. I have a very particular voice and style online—and it is likely that you do too unless your online personality is very bland and corporate.
Some search engine marketing consultants will tell you they can make you appear as the top search result on Google. And they may be able to—briefly—before you are booted off Google for trying to game the system. If something sounds too good to be true, guess what? It probably is.
Here are some questions you should ask before hiring a consultant:
• What projects have you worked on previously for which clients?
• What benefits did you bring to them?
• What metrics would you use to measure results?
• Do you have your own blog/podcast/Twitter feed, etc.? How successful is it?
• What specific tasks can you help with?
Online marketing is powerful—but it is not witchcraft. There are no Da Vinci Code style "secrets" of online marketing that you need to pay a fortune to discover, having read someone's lengthy online sales letter or "squeeze page."
While you might want to kick-start your marketing by having someone draw up a marketing plan for you, in many cases it is not necessary to hire a consultant. It is better to brush up on the principles and practices, and familiarize yourself with those online marketing tools that seem most suited to your business. After all, you are the one who will be tweeting/blogging/AudioBooing, etc. And if you follow the advice in the "Manage the workload" sections of this book, you are less likely to be overwhelmed by the responsibility. Reading this book is, of course, a great start, and there are more resources, such as video tutorials, on the website at www.getuptospeed.biz.
But even if having read this book you decide you want to hire others to do the work for you, the knowledge you have gained of the principles and processes will help you commission the work more effectively. There are a number of scenarios when you might want to hire someone to help with your online marketing:
1. You're an experienced web designer/blogger/podcaster/video producer/etc.—but you're spending too much time on media production when you should be focusing on your businesss.
2. Your blog/podcast/etc., has come to a standstill because you no longer have the time or interest to do it all yourself.
3. You or your team are overwhelmed by the additional workload and responsibility of maintaining your online marketing.
4. You're new to all this and don't know where to begin.
The sort of help you hire will depend on the size of your organization and the sort of tasks you need doing.
Audit your tasks
The first stage is to identify what needs doing and where the gaps are. Draw up a task list and decide which things can be done in-house and which you want to outsource. Which tasks do you, realistically, have the time to do alongside your other responsibilities? Which tasks are critical to be done in-house to maintain your unique personal voice and brand? Where does your expertise lie, and which tasks would be better outsourced to a specialist?
"the first stage is to identify what needs doing and where the gaps are"
You can do this at the level of your entire marketing plan or for a specific project such as producing a podcast. Tasks can then be broken down into smaller chunks than "produce a podcast." You might, for example, want to record interviews, but then hand over the raw files to an audio producer who can edit them, add some music, and output them as discrete MP3 files—and then take it back in-house to upload to your blog yourself.
Think about the roles that relate to each task (whether in-house or outsourced), and who will own each one. Draw up a grid a little like this:

When to hire a social media manager
Many organizations have been experimenting with social media for a while in a fairly uncoordinated way—which is fine to start with, as most of this stuff is free, and that can be a good way to find out what works for you. But at some point, it can become hard to maintain all the blogs and updates, effort may be duplicated and a proliferation of accounts confusing if people are just going off and doing their own thing. At some stage, some order needs restoring.
If you work for a large organization and have reached a critical mass of social media being created and maintained that becomes hard to keep track of, it may be time to consider hiring a social media manager. This is someone who can work across an organization, coordinate roles and responsibilities, help draw up strategies and marketing plans, and assist with the actual work of maintaining blogs, podcasts, video, and social media sites. He or she may also hire in technical or production help where needed.
Alternatively, you may opt for a committee-based solution: Appoint a committee of existing staff whose role it is to draw up a corporate level social media marketing plan, with clear aims and objectives; and then draw up some guidelines and policies. These should state how various tools—such as Twitter—are used by the organization and who is responsible for what. Include also any naming conventions to be used if there are many Twitter or Facebook accounts to be used across the organization.
When to hire a virtual assistant
If you are a start-up or entrepreneur, you probably won't have the luxury of a social media manager. It will probably all be down to you. That's not a bad thing, as social media often works best for small businesses. However, before you despair of the enormous workload and learning curve before you, don't worry: I'm not suggesting you do it all yourself. You can hire in help quite cheaply—and a virtual assistant (VA) can be a great asset to a small business. And not just for marketing, but also all sorts of tasks.
"a virtual assistant can be a great asset to a small business"
In his bestselling book The 4-Hour Workweek, Tim Ferriss advocates outsourcing as a means of leveraging your time and resources via "geo-arbitrage." That means "exploting global pricing and currency differences for profit or lifestyle purposes"—or charging your clients in dollars and paying your suppliers pesos or rupees. Examples he cites of outsourcing companies you can use to achieve this include Brickwork India (www.brickworkindia.com), based in Bangalore, India's "Silicone Valley," which specializes in Remote Executive Assistants who can perform a wide variety of tasks on a time zone to suit you.
The outsourcing revolution has moved on a little since then: we've had a banking collapse, and global pricing has shifted slightly. India and the Philippines are still great value, and there are talented technical experts to be found who speak excellent English. But it is also easier than ever to find VAs all over the world for a reasonable price, including in the U.S., which some people prefer for geographical reasons.
A VA can take on a wide range of tasks remotely, from maintaining blogs to doing market research to audio editing to helping with email newsletters. There are plenty of tasks and functions where it makes more sense to get someone else to do, in order to save you time and have them done with more expertise than you possess.
It can be alarming at first handing over control to someone at a remote location—especially when you hand over logins and passwords—but you will soon reap the benefits of not doing it all yourself. It pays to draw up very detailed instructions, even process flowcharts, for specific tasks that need doing. Many people also use Camtasia (the screen capture software mentioned in Chapter 8) to record online tasks such as blog maintenance. It can be a very quick way of communicating, on screen exactly what you need doing.
When to hire a technical expert
You can also hire in technical experts for specialist functions such as video production, graphic design, and web design. Your VA can probably help you outsource these tasks too, if they are beyond his/her skillset.
For example, I don't claim to be a graphic designer—I always outsource these tasks to freelancers who are far more talented than me. I can design websites, but I rarely do these days—I outsource web design to save my time for things that it is better spent on—such as developing my business, running workshops, and writing.
Where to find help
The best advice I can give you is to use Elance (www.elance.com) rather than searching for outsourcing companies based in specific countries. This is a global online marketplace that matches up freelancers and outsourcers for just about any job you can think of. Simply post the job you want doing and sit back and wait for the bids to come in from all over the world. Some bids will be from individuals, and some will be specialist outsourcing or VA companies with whom you may subsequently develop an ongoing business relationship. Pick the one you want to work with and pay their fee in advance via your PayPal account. It is held "in escrow" until the job is completed to your satisfaction. A rating and reviews system maintains the quality of suppliers and provides useful reviews of jobs completed.
The vast array of tasks you can outsource this way includes
Web design
Blog development, maintenance, and writing
SEM/SEO
Banner ads
Graphic design
Email newsletter maintenance and writing
Audio editing and transcription
Market research
Business plans
Marketing plans
Recruitment
Virtual assistant/administrative tasks
...and many more. See a list of the top 100 jobs you can Elance at www.elance.com/p/100-projects-outsource.html.
Manage your outsourced projects
Sometimes outsourcing is a simple matter of finding the right person with the technical expertise you need for your project, and then working closely with them until it is delivered. Sometimes it is an ongoing relationship, such as with a VA. Sometimes, for large projects involving several people, some more sophisticated project management is required.
I'm based in London yet have outsourced tasks to people based overseas, including in the U.S. I also regularly use freelancers based in the UK, many of whom I almost never meet in person. I keep in touch by email, sometimes via Skype—and I manage large projects that involve several freelancers—such as web developers, graphic designers, and copy writers—using an online collaborative project management tool called Basecamp (http://basecamphq.com).
There are project management tools included with Elance, for example for signing off milestones, but I prefer to manage projects using the more comprehensive set of tools offered by Basecamp. It can be branded to your business, and I also use this to share files and other deliverables with clients via a "client login" link on my websites.
Once you have selected your freelancer or team for a project, you can create a new project in Basecamp and assign people logins to it. There are a number of people who I have worked with for years who I regularly assign to projects in this way. You can use it as a messageboard to communicate with your team, share files such as documents, graphics, audio and video, set up to-do lists and assign tasks, list milestones and more. I use Basecamp all the time—to manage client projects, to deliver resources to my workshop participants—I even used it with my publisher to project manage the writing of this book! You can now also use something called Sortfolio (http://sortfolio.com), from the people who brought you Basecamp, to source a web designer.
If you want to collaborate on documents, spreadsheets, and presentations in real time with your team or with freelancers, Google Docs (http://docs.google.com) is free and incredibly useful.
However you source, assemble, and manage your team, and whether for discrete projects or ongoing business functions, there are online tools to help you find help with your online marketing. But don't let go of everything. Remember that the reason your online marketing works, particularly your social media marketing, is YOU. Your authentic voice, personality, and passion. That's probably part of the reason you started your own business in the first place: to do things in your own unique way, follow your own interests, and pursue a passion. Never be afraid to be yourself online. You may be surprised how much business this generates—even unintentionally. Resist the urge to be a bland corporate clone or to hand your social media presence over to someone else. You can't outsource you.
"the reason your online marketing works is YOU"
Outsource the parts of your marketing and your business that you either can't do, don't want to do, or don't have the time to do. Then focus on what you enjoy, what you do best, and where you can add the greatest value to your business. And have fun with it: You've worked hard to build your business—now see it grow with online marketing!
Take action
• Audit your tasks and decide what help you need.
• Find help via Elance.
• Manage your projects with Basecamp.
• Do what you do best and outsource the rest!







An A-Z of online marketing
Aggregation—the process of gathering together content from websites, blogs, or other forms of social media, often using RSS feeds. Content may be aggregated in a newsreader, website, personalized home page, or even Facebook profiles, groups, or pages.
Archive—on blogs, archives are collections of older posts usually organized by month. You may still be able to comment on archived items unless the blogger has closed comments for older items.
Article marketing—sites such as Ezine (www.ezine.com) enable you to write articles for distribution to a wide audience, with your biography, byline, and a link to your business. Well-written articles increase your credibility and attract new leads, but they can also boost your search engine rankings due to incoming links from these high-ranking sites.
Authenticity—the sense that something or someone is "real." Blogs, podcasts, Twitter updates, etc., enable people to publish content and engage in conversations that help them develop an authentic voice online. If you can show personality, passion, and the person behind your business, you will build more trust than a bland corporate voice.
Avatar—a graphical image representing people online. Your avatar is your "character" in virtual worlds such as Second Life. You can build your avatar with the body, clothes, behaviors, gender and name of your choice. This may or may not be an authentic representation of the person behind the keyboard.
Blog—a website with dated items of content (or "posts") in reverse chronological order. Posts are usually organized into categories, may also be tagged with keywords, and should allow comments. Blog posts can include images, video, and audio as well as text. Blogs can usually be subscribed to using an RSS feed and are great for driving traffic to a site and boosting search engine rankings. Blogs are easy to set up using tools such as Blogger, Typepad, and WordPress.
Blogosphere—the term used to describe the totality of blogs on the Internet and the conversations taking place within that online space.
Blogroll—a list of favorite blogs displayed in the sidebar of a blog, showing who the blogger reads regularly.
Call to action—a clear message contained on a website or piece of social media such as a blog post, podcast or video, to encourage people to do something specific as a result of engaging with your online media. Once you've got someone on to your website, or to listen to your podcast, etc., what do you want them to do? Sign up to your newsletter, download a white paper, visit your blog?
Categories—pre-specified ways to organize content or a taxonomy—for example a list of categories in the sidebar of a blog that allows you to browse a blog by subject.
Comments—blogs may allow readers to add comments under posts and may also provide a feed for comments as well as for posts. That means you can keep up with conversations without having to revisit the site to check whether anything has been added.
Online communities are groups of people communicating mainly through the Internet. They may be members of a community website, or members of a group on a generic social network (such as a Facebook group). Blog-based communities also exist as communities of people who are regular readers of a blog. These groups may be reached via an email list where they have registered to receive updates by email or via a Facebook message or a tweet, depending on which tool is used.
Content may refer to text, images, video, audio, or any other material that is on the Internet.
Content management system (CMS)—a piece of software that allows you to add to, edit, and update content on your site with no need for technical knowledge of HTML code. WordPress can be used as a CMS.
Conversation through blogging, commenting, or contributing to forums is the currency of social networking.
Conversational index—a measure of the impact of a blog, calculated as the number of comments divided by the number of posts, either for a whole blog, a blog category or a time period. Aim for a number greater than 1.
Creative Commons (http://creativecommons.org)—an alternative to copyright that facilitates the sharing of content online by attaching a Creative Commons licence specifying, for example, that content may be reused with attribution.
Cross-browser compatibility—test your website to make sure it works in all major browsers, including Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, Google Chrome, and Opera.
Crowdsourcing refers to harnessing the skills and enthusiasm of those outside your business who are prepared to volunteer their time contributing content and solving problems.
Culture—social media only works well in a culture of openness, authenticity, trust, and two-way communication. It is a commitment rather than a tactic, and culture and attitude are as important as tools. It can be hard for large corporations to use social media because it is a personal medium where authenticity matters. It's often easier for small businesses and individuals.
Dashboard—the "back-end" control center of (e.g.,) your blog, from where you can manage posts, comments, pages, blogroll, categories, plugins and your blog's appearance via themes and widgets. Can also refer to your dashboard on your web stats or email marketing service, etc.
Events—on Facebook, events can be created by individuals, groups, or pages. You can also organize events in LinkedIn and other social networks. Great for promoting launches, seminars, and other events where you have a following on these networks.
Feed—see RSS feed.
Forums are discussion areas on websites, where people can post messages or comment on existing messages. Before blogs developed, email lists and forums were the main means of conversing online. Forums are useful where you want an open-ended discussion on a specific topic on your website over a longer period of time than a blog post would normally facilitate. Examples of this might include support forums where users of your product share knowledge and advice. These are commonly used by software businesses. Forum discussions are often a feature available on social networking sites, such as on Facebook pages or Flickr groups.
Friends, on social networking sites such as Facebook and MySpace, are contacts whose profile you link to in your profile. On some sites people have to accept your friend request before you are connected. On Twitter they are called followers, and on LinkedIn they are called contacts.
Groups—in the social networking sense, groups are pages that can be set up by anyone with a profile and invite others to join. They usually give members the ability to contribute content, such as posting links, images, and videos or writing on the wall of a Facebook group, contributing images to a Flickr group and engaging in forum discussions. Groups are useful for encouraging interaction between members.
Hashtags—are used in Twitter to group tweets (updates) together by subject. They are included in a tweet, as e.g., #swineflu to track topical subjects and often used at conferences where people are tweeting from presentations, such as #media140. Some conferences will pre-announce the hashtag to be used. Otherwise the most popular one emerges. You don't need to register them anywhere—just make them up. Hashtags become links that can be clicked on to view a timeline of everyone's tweets including that hashtag.
Information architecture is a term used to describe the way content is organized on a website, usually displayed as a flowchart of key pages.
Lurkers are people who read but don't contribute or add comments to forums or blogs. The 1 percent rule of thumb suggests that about 1 percent of people contribute new content to an online community, another 9 percent comment, and the rest lurk. However, they are not necessarily passive since content consumed may lead to interaction elsewhere, especially if you are clear about your call to action.
Measurement—social media metrics is an emerging discipline. It is possible to track the impact of your social media use with a combination of web-stats packages (such as Google Analytics or Clicky Web Analytics), number tracking (group members, fans, followers, subscriptions, downloads, or views), calls to action, surveys, and unique landing pages/click-throughs. For blogs, an important measure is your Conversational Index.
Microblogging—sites such as Twitter that allow personal updates of up to 140 characters. By using separate web tools such as Twitterfeed, they can also be used to promote blogs and other RSS feeds by generating an automatic update to "followers" whenever new content is published. Through widgets, Twitter updates can also be pulled into websites. Other microblogging sites include Plurk and Jaiku.
Newsreader—a website or desktop tool that acts as an aggregator, gathering content from blogs and similar sites using RSS feeds so you can read the content in one place instead of having to visit different sites.
Pay per click (PPC)—any form of online advertising where you pay a small amount each time someone clicks on your ad, including Google AdWords and Facebook Social Ads.
Pages—on Facebook, pages provide much of the same functionality as groups, plus some extra functions such as adding many of the same applications you can add to your profile. This can be useful for pulling in a blog via RSS, adding an app that enables user reviews, etc.
Participation—or participatory culture is used to describe a way of doing things in which people use social media to share and collaborate in a way that encourage openness and transparency.
Permalink—the address (URL) of a specific blog post—its "permanent link." The blog post title usually links to the permalink.
A personalized home page is essentially an aggregator. It is a service offered by sites including Google (www.google.com/ig), Pageflakes (www.pageflakes.com), and Netvibes (www.netvibes.com). They allow you to pull in content from a range of websites using RSS feeds, including blogs.
Photo sharing—uploading, organising, and sharing your digital images to a website like Flickr.
Pingback—lets you know if someone links to one of your blog posts and automatically notifies you so you can see what people are writing about you.
Podcast—audio or video files than can be subscribed to using RSS and automatically downloaded whenever a new show is published. You don't need an iPod to listen to a podcast—about 50 percent of people who subscribe to podcasts listen (or watch) online.
A post is an item of content on a blog. Usually text but can also be images, video, or audio.
Profiles—the information that you provide about yourself when signing up for a social networking site. As well as a picture and basic information, this may include your personal and business interests, a "blurb" about yourself, and tags to help people search for like-minded people.
Retweet—a retweet is a Twitter status update that is quoted or passed on. Either use the synatx: "RT @getuptospeed:", followed by the text you are quoting; or click the Retweet link which becomes visible when you hover over a tweet.
RSS—short for "Really Simple Syndication." This allows you to subscribe to content on blogs and other social media and have it delivered to you through a feed. Blogs you subscribe to may be displayed in an aggregator website like Google Reader directly on your desktop using software called a newsreader. Podcasts are usually managed through a service such as iTunes.
Search—people search for information on the Internet using a search engine, of which Google is the most widely used. But they also search Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, iTunes, etc., so it it important to have a presence on these sites too. People also search for blogs on specialist search engines such as Technorati (www.technorati.com) or Google Blogsearch (http://blogsearch.google.com).
Search engine marketing (SEM)—a form of online marketing that promotes websites by increasing their visibility in search engines such as Google, Yahoo, or Bing. People rarely click beyond the first two or three pages of results, so it is important to improve your position on these sites. This is done through a combination of search engine optimization (SEO) and paying for placement in search engine results pages (SERPs), for example using Google AdWords.
Search engine optimization (SEO)—the process of improving the volume or quality of traffic to a website from "natural" search results as opposed to paid-for placements on SERPs. This involves editing the content and HTML code of a website to increase its relevance to specific keywords and to remove barriers to the indexing activities of search engines.
SERP—Search engine results page.
Social bookmarking—saving the address of a website or item of content on a social bookmarking site like Delicious. If you add tags, others can search your bookmarks too.
Social currency—you need to use social media to be able to use it for marketing purposes. By being present in the social media space (e.g., having a Facebook profile, a blog, a Twitter account), you build "social currency." This gives you "permission" to use the medium to communicate your marketing message—as long as it is relevant and useful to the people you are communicating with. You can't just spam a Facebook group!
Social media may be thought of as the collection of tools people use to publish, converse, and share content online, including blogs, podcasts, video, and social networks. Social media marketing is an approach to marketing based on building relationships with people online. It may be thought of as permission-based marketing or conversational marketing.
Social networking sites are places where users can create a profile for themselves, and socialize with their network of friends and contacts using a range of tools such as adding friends, posting messages, links and other content, importing blogs, and creating groups, pages and events. The most popular include Facebook, MySpace, and LinkedIn. Twitter may also be thought of as a social network.
Subscribing—the online equivalent of signing up for a magazine: you get new content delivered as it is published. Relates to blogs via RSS feeds, but also podcasts (via iTunes, etc.), YouTube channels, Twitter feeds, email lists, etc.
Tags—keywords attached to a blog post, bookmark, photo, or other item of content so you and others can find them easily through searches and aggregation. Tags can usually be freely chosen—and so form part of a folksonomy—while categories are predetermined and are part of a taxonomy.
Tag cloud—a widget you can add to your blog to show the most commonly used tags. The more often a tag is used, the larger the font size. Your readers can see at a glance what you write about and click on the tags displayed, making it another way to navigate to your blog's content.
Trackbacks—provided by some blogs as a facility for other bloggers to leave an automatic comment. They are usually indicated as a specific URL, often the permalink for a particular blog post. By using this URL as the link for someone else's blog post that you link to on your own blog, an extract of your linking text automatically appears as a comment on the original blog post.
URL—stands for "unique resource locator," and is the technical term for a web address e.g., http://www.getuptospeed.biz.
Unique URL or unique landing page—a web address that is only ever mentioned in one place, such as a podcast, video, or another website (including e.g., Flickr or Twitter). The URL then automatically refers on to the page you want people to land on such as the ordering page for a book, a sign-up page for an email newsletter, etc. This enables you to track exactly how many people who took action landed on your ordering page as a result of watching a video, listening to a podcast, or visiting a website.
Usability testing—you should test how easy it is to use your site with a variety of experienced and non-experienced users within your target market. Do this by observing them complete a specific task—such as using a contact form or locating a specific product or piece of content—and take notes. Make changes to your site if testing throws up issues that need addressing.
User-generated content (UGC)—any text, photos or other content that is contributed to a site by its users. Examples are Wikipedia, Digg, and Flickr.
Video has taken off since the wide uptake of broadband. Sites such as YouTube, Vimeo, and blip.tv make it easy to upload and share videos. These sites also provide code for each video to enable you to embed the video in a blog post or website. It's usually best to keep them short—no more than 3 minutes, provide useful content that people will value, and provide a URL for people to click through to.
Virtual worlds—online places like Second Life (http://secondlife.com) where you can create a representation of yourself (an avatar) and socialize with other residents. In some ways these are just another social network—it is usually possible to join groups and add people to your friends list—but one with a rich graphical interface that has to be learned first, creating a higher barrier to entry than, say, Facebook.
Web 2.0—a term coined by O'Reilly Media in 2004 to describe a second generation of web services including blogs, wikis, social networking sites, and other Internet-based services that emphasize collaboration, sharing, participation, and self-publishing rather than less interactive, static websites (Web 1.0). What we used to call Web 2.0 a few years ago is now more commonly referred to as social media.
White paper—a free downloadable document, usually a report or guide, used to educate people and help them make decisions. Often used to generate sales leads, establish thought leadership, make a business case, or to educate customers. Can be used as an incentive to sign up to your email list.
Widgets are stand-alone mini-applications you can embed in websites or a desktop. These may help you to do things like subscribe to a feed, pull in content from another site, display comments from your Twitter followers, etc.
Wiki—a web page or website that can be edited collaboratively. The best known example is Wikipedia (http://wikipedia.org), an encyclopedia created by thousands of contributors across the world. Depending on their permissions level, people can add and/or edit pages. Create your own wiki using www.wikispaces.com.
Wireframe—a simple diagram showing the layout of key elements of a web page.
Wisdom of crowds—the idea that individual contributions to a website—such as items of content, rankings, and ratings—produce robust, reliable results that are greater than the sum of their parts. For example, Wikipedia is more reliable and authoritative than often thought since inaccurate or insufficiently referenced information will soon be challenged or edited by others. Digg is another example.







Index
Items in bold are listed in the A-Z on pages 233-242
12seconds.tv 111
aggregator, Facebook 150-1
AKM Music 92
Alexa Internet 40
All Jigsaw Puzzles 47-8
Amazon, Reading List 160
Anderson, Chris, The Long Tail 6-7
Audacity 91
audience, building using blog 71
audio editing software 91
AudioBoo 94
Avatar see Second Life
BBQ Addicts 207
benefits of online marketing 5-7
Blendtec 101
Blipfoto 120
Blip.tv 111
blogs 3, 28, 35, 52, 53, 69-83
adding social bookmarking buttons 216-18
adding tags 80
adding video from YouTube 80
benefits for business 71-2
blogroll 70
case study 72-3
categories 70
comments 70
conversational index 19
copy and paste from Word document 79
creating 74-7
creating newsletter from 63
death by blogging 80
description 69
Facebook 148
features 70
hosted externally 74-5
hosted on own server 75
hosting Google ads 50
managing workload 80-2
measuring results 82
platform options 74
plugins 74, 76
podcasts 77, 93
RSS feed 63, 70, 147
setting up 77-8
and search engine marketing 46
sidebar 70
software installation in root directory or sub-directory 75-6
strategy 73-4
tag cloud 77
tags 70
themes 74
time to establish 10-11
topics to write about 78
and Twitter 184-5
updating 81
using Zemanta 81
widgets 74, 76
writing first post 79-80
Box.net Files 160
brochure website 28
calls to action 18, 19
camera, online video production 104-5
Camtasia 228
Clicky Analytics 19, 39
commercials 103
communities
building 5, 38-9
creating with podcasts 96
photo sharing 118, 119, 124 see also social networks/networking
Company Buzz 160
connections, building 38-9
consultants
hiring decision 223-31
questions to ask before hiring 224
social media manager 226-7
technical experts 228
virtual assistant 227-8
Contact Form 76
content management system 28
content tools 16
conversation 5
conversational index 19, 82
customer database 6
customer service, improving using Twitter 187
customer surveys, email marketing 61
data capture 6
death by blogging 80
Delicious 43, 205, 206, 208-11
linking to Twitter 209
Linkrolls 210
measuring results 219
signing up 208-11
Tagrolls 210-11
toolbar 208
dictation software 81
Digg 43, 205, 206, 211-14
content 212
creating widget 214
description 211
and Facebook 212
link to website 212
as social network 212
as social news site 211
submitting link 213
submitting news, video or images 213
traffic 216
direct marketing x
domain name, choosing 30-1
e-commerce site 28
case study 29-30
E-Junkie 37
Elance 228, 229
email 3
email marketing 55-65
building list 59-60
incentive 60
permission 59
sign up to newsletter 60
sign-up form 59
case study 56-7
customer surveys 61
first email—writing 62
importance of 56
list 15
measuring results 65
newsletter see email newsletters
planning campaign 60-1
press releases 61
quick announcements 61
special offers 60
test email 62
workload—managing 64
email newsletters 15, 35, 61
signing up to 15
using FeedBurner 63-4
email service provider (ESP)
case study 57
choosing 58-9
examples 58
mode of operation 58-9
Eventbrite 38
expertise, LinkedIn, Answers 168-70
Ezine 45, 48
Facebook 53, 110, 135, 139-53
age of user 9
aggregator 150-1
apps, selection and installation 145-7
benefits for business 139-40
business use 133
case study 140-1
creating event 149
creating own application 148
Delicious 147
description 133, 139, 147
and Digg 212
and Flickr 147
and FriendFeed 150-1, 191
group, creating 144
importing blog 148
insights 151-2
landing tab 149
managing workload 150-1
Marketplace 141
measuring results 151-2
number of users 9
origins 139
page
compared with group 143-4
creating 144
promoting 149
photo sharing 119
poll 147
profile, creating 142-3
reviews 147
social ads 149-50
and Twitter 147, 149
user statistics 9
username 148
users—number of 139
YouTube Box 113, 147
Feed stats 82
FeedBurner 63-4, 93
Ferriss, Tim, The 4-hour Workweek 227
findability 17
Flickr 118-19
batch process 123
business use 120
copyright or Creative Commons 122
description 120
description of photo 121
and Facebook 147
geotag 122
groups 123-4
iPhone app 123
linking to blog or website 124
measuring results 124, 125
public or private 122
signing up for account 119-21
tag 121
title 121
uploading photos 121-3
username 119-20
flickrRSS 76
FriendFeed 113, 191
and Facebook 150-1
Friendster 133, 135
Garageband 91
Google
automatic submission 44
hosting ads 50
how it works 44
increasing visibility 43
Local Business Center 46
manual submission 44
PageRank 44
ranking 44
getting high placement 44-53
search-based keyword tool 51
selection of pages 44
sponsored links 47
Google AdSense 50
Google AdWords 15, 45, 46, 47, 53
creating campaign 49-52
keywords—selecting 49-50, 51-2
video 110
Google Analytics 19, 39
Google Buzz 217
Google Maps 38
Google Presentation 160
groups, Flickr 123-4
Habbo 133, 135
Hammersley, John Ben 85
help, asking for on Twitter 186-7
Hi5 134, 135
Hippo 174-5
Huddle Workspaces 160
ID3 tags 92
infomercials 103
information architecture diagram 33
Internet telephony 91
interview release 91
interviews, podcasts 91
iTunes 88, 95, 97
Ivy Ellen Wedding Stationery 131-2
keywords
monitoring 17
selection, for Google AdWords 49-50, 51-2
LAME MP3 Encoder 92
lighting, online video production 105-6
Linda Ruck Communications 157
LinkedIn 135, 155-72
age of user 9
Answers 168-70
benefits for business 156-8
building business connections 156
business use 134
case study 157
description 134, 155
event, creating 166-7
group
adding content 165, 166
discussions 165
job ads 165
news 165, 166
open access 165
promoting 165
request to join 165
setting up 163-5
installing applications 159-62
managing workload 170-1
measuring results 171
personal profile 136
positioning yourself as expert 156
profile, creating 158-9
promoting business 156
recommendations 158-9
and Twitter 161-2
listening tools 16
Maclachlan, Alan 47-8
market intelligence 16
market research 6
Twitter 186
marketing plan 13-23
managing workload 18-19
measuring success 19-20
one-page 20-1
questions to ask 14
template 20-1
tools—choosing 14-17
mass marketing x
measurement tools 17
microphones 90
music, podcasts 92
Music Alley 92
My Travel 160
MySpace 110, 133, 135
photo sharing 119
myths, social media 8-9
networking, creating opportunities using blog 72
newsletters see email newsletters
niche markets, reaching 6-7
no-follow link 52
online marketing
benefits 5-7
compared with traditional method 4
description 3-4
effective—guide for 17-18
Orkut 133, 135
outreach tools 16
outsourcing
overseas 227-8
project management 229-30 see also consultants
Oxjam Music Festival 118
PageRank 40
Pamela 91
Parle Agro 174-5
pay per click advertising 49
PayPal 28, 37
permission-based marketing 59
personal profile, social networking 135-6
photo sharing 117-25
benefits for business 117-19
case study 118
community 118, 119, 124
description 117
Flickr see separate entry
sites 117
choosing 119
list of 120
Photobucket 120
Picasa 120
plugins, blogs 74, 76
podcasts 86-97
audio editing software 91
audio files—hosting 92
audio or video 88-9
AudioBoo—using 94
blogs 77, 93
case study 87
creating community 96
delivering 92-3
description 86-7
hosting service 92
interviews 91
interviews on other 96
length 89
link to website 96
listing in iTunes 95, 97
measuring success 97
music 92
output 92
planning 88-90
producing 91-2
promoting 95-6
recording 90-1
hardware 90
RSS feed 93
style and format choosing 89-90
Polls 160
postcard emails 61
Powa 37
press releases, email marketing 61
principles of social media 10-11
product development, use of virtual worlds 196
promotion of real products/services, use of virtual worlds 196
QZone 133
rankings 19
RSS feed
blogs 70
setting up 77-8
sales funnel 4
search engine, Twitter 185
search engine marketing 43-54
case study 47-8
Ezine—submitting article to 52
how it works 44-5
increasing visibility on Google 43
measuring results 53
optimizing website for search engine 48-9
starting blog 46 see also Google AdWords
search engine optimization (SEO) 45, 46, 48-9
case study 47-8
search engine placements, increasing using social media 53
search engine results pages (SERPS) 44-5
getting high placement 44-53
search engine visibility, blogs 71
Second Life 195-204
advertising posters and dispensers 202-3
age of user 9
communication 200
community—building 201
currency 197
customizing avatar 201
description 196
downloading and creating account 200-1
managing workload 203
measuring results 203
meeting clients and suppliers 197
premium account 200
training 197
Welcome Island 200
Sexy Bookmarks 76, 216
ShareThis 217-18
SideShare 160
Skype 91
Snapdragon 140-1
Snapfish 120
sneezers 206
social bookmarking 205-20
adding buttons to blog 216-18
benefits for business 206
case study 207
description 205
managing workload 219
measuring results 219-20
sites 205, 206 see also Delicious; Digg; Stumbleupon
social marketing x-xi
social media
description 7-8
myths 8-9
principles 10-11
using to increase search engine placements 53 see also blogs; photo sharing
social media manager, hiring 226-7
social networks/networking 4, 129-37
as aggregators 130
benefits for business 130-1
case study 131-2
common features 129-30
connections—building 130
description 129-30
list—building 130
personal profile 135-6
sites
choosing 135
list of main 132-4
and trust 131
and word of mouth 131 see also individual sites e.g. Facebook; Twitter
social news site see Digg
social search 43
sound effects 92
Soundsnap 92
spam 55
Stills 56-7
Stormhoek Wines 72-3
Studio 8 29-30
Stumbleupon 43, 205, 206, 215-16
analytics 219
subscribers 216
traffic 216
using 215
surveys 19
tag cloud 77
Tagged 134
target market 14
tasks, auditing 225-9
technical experts 228
training, Second Life 197
training videos 103
transparency 10
trust 5, 71
and social networks/networking 131
TweetDeck 189-90
TweetMeme 218
analytics 219
retweet button 217
Twitpic 119, 120
Twitter 53, 173-93
age of user 9
background 176-7
benefits for business 174-5
biography 176
and blog 184-5
business use 134
case study 174-5
creating account 176-7
customer service 187
description 134, 173
direct messages 180
and Facebook 147, 149
favorites 178
finding way around 177-80
followers
building 187-9
limit 188
people who don't follow back 188
hashtags 188
help—asking for 186-7
home page 179-80
incorporating tweets into website 191
and LinkedIn 161-2
linking Delicious 209
links 184, 185
lists 180-3
widget 182-3
managing workload 189-91
on desktop 189-90
on the move 190
schedule 190
sharing 190
using aggregator 191
using Facebook FriendFeed 191
market research 186
measuring results 191-3
as news service 184
number of users 9
personal profile 136
profile page 177-8
profile picture, uploading 176
ranking 193
registering account 176
retweeted Tweet 178-9
as search engine 185
special offers and freebies 185
tweet-up 186
Tweeting 183-7
TweetMeme analytics 219
TwitterCounter 191-2
use of unique URLs 193
username 176
web address 176
TwitVid 111, 113
unique landing pages 19
value, creating 5
video editing software 109
video, online 99-115
B-roll 108
benefits for business 100
camera 104-5
case study 101
creating video resource without producing single video 112
cutaways 108
deciding what to produce 102-3
list of options 103
description 99-100
editing 109
encoding in standard format 109
equipment 104-6
lights 105-6
managing workload 112
measuring results 113-15
using unique URL 113-14
noddies 108
producing without a camera 110
rule of thirds 107
sharing video 110-11
soundtrack 109
stock video footage 109
studio-based interview 106
styles 107-8
video-sharing websites, see YouTube
Vimeo 111
viral marketing 17
virtual assistant 150
hiring 227-8
Virtual Farmers Market 198-9
virtual land, selling 197
virtual products, selling 197
virtual worlds 195-204
benefits for business 196-8
case study 198-9
description 195 see also Second Life
Vkontakte 134
Web 2.0 7
web analytics 19
Web stats 82
website 3, 27-41
accessibility statement 36
analytics 39
brochure 28
building 30-9
content—planning 33-6
design brief 32
domain name, choosing 30-1
hiring designer or diy 31
information architecture diagram 33
using WordPress 31
case study 29-30
content 49
home page 33-4
locations served 46
planning 33-6
domain name, choosing 30-1
driving traffic to using blog 71
e-commerce site 28
extending functionality with third-party tools 37-8
home page 33-4
hosting Google ads 50
inbound links 40
incorporating tweets using widget 191
link to Digg 212
link to podcast 96
page descriptions 49
page titles 49
privacy policy 36
rankings 40
search box 34
site map 36
URLs 49
why essential for business 28-9
widgets 36 see also blog
widgets 36
blogs 74, 76
Digg 214
incorporating tweets into website 191
linking Flickr to blog or website 124
Twitter lists 182-3
Wiggly Wigglers 87
Wikipedia 47
Windows Live Spaces 133
Word document, copy and paste to blog 79
word of mouth 131
WordPress 28, 31, 74, 75, 82
Audio Player 76-7
plugins 76, 216-17
PodPress plugin 93
Sexy Bookmarks 216
workload, managing, marketing plan 18-19
WP Status Notifier 77
WP-Cumulus 77
Wufoo 37
YouTube 99, 101, 109, 112
adding video to blog 80
Autoshare 113
description 111
and Facebook 113, 147
mail alerts 113
metrics 114
Zemanta 81








In an increasingly competitive world, it is quality of thinking that gives an edge—an idea that opens new doors, a technique that solves a problem, or an insight that simply helps make sense of it all.
We work with leading authors in the various arenas of business and finance to bring cutting-edge thinking and best-learning practices to a global market.
It is our goal to create world-class print publications and electronic products that give readers knowledge and understanding that can then be applied, whether studying or at work.
To find out more about our business products, you can visit us at www.ftpress.com.







Footnotes
Chapter 1
1 Chris Anderson (2006) The Long Tail: How Endless Choice Is Creating Unlimited Demand, Random House Business Books.
2 Nielsen, March 2009, http://www.nielsen-online.com/pr/pr_090309.pdf (PDF).
Chapter 6
3 www.nytimes.com/2008/04/06/technology/06sweat.html
Chapter 8
4 www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6t92m1gwTY
Chapter 12
5 http://blog.linkedin.com/2009/07/14/linda-ruck-helping-entrepreneurs-and-smb-owners-win-global-clients
Chapter 13
6 http://www.campaignasia.com/Article/214608,case-study-parle-agros-hippo-turns-to-twitter-to-track-inventory-and-replenish-stocks.aspx
Chapter 15
7 http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/28/dining/28bacon.html?_r=2&em
8 http://swissmoneyblog.com/2009/01/29/a-delicious-internet-marketing-case-study-unless-youre-a-vegetarian/







The Ultimate LinkedIn Checklist For Small and Medium Businesses
By Lauren Dugan







© 2013 by Pearson EducationPublished by Pearson Education, Inc.Publishing as FTPressUpper Saddle River, New Jersey 07458
Company and product names mentioned herein are the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, in any form or by any means, without permission in writing from the publisher.
ISBN-10: 0-13-338159-5ISBN-13: 978-0-13-338159-7
For more information, please contact us at info@ftpress.com







Introduction: The Value of a Professional Network
At first glance, LinkedIn appears to primarily be the domain of job-seekers. They post their resumes, direct potential employers to their profile, cross their fingers and hope for the best!
Of course, LinkedIn is a great place to showcase your resume. But it is much, much more than that.
I like to call LinkedIn the social business network. This separates it from Facebook, which is the pure social network, and Twitter, which is the social information network. It's the business part of LinkedIn that this eBook is going to focus on.
With over 175 million users, LinkedIn is the best place on the web to leverage your professional network—as a job seeker, yes, but also as a small and medium business.
As a business owner, you've cultivated a vast network of partners, suppliers, employees, vendors, competitors and more in the offline world. By establishing a solid LinkedIn presence, you'll be able to not only connect with your current network, but tap into their networks as well. New opportunities to discover talent, form partnerships and find vendors are at your fingertips once you're on LinkedIn-and it doesn't have to cost you a dime.
Format
This eBook is going to walk you through the steps you need to take to build a LinkedIn presence that improves your bottom line. We'll start with the basics of setting up a profile and Company Page for those who are completely new to LinkedIn. Next, we'll go over several optimization tips, including how to make your profile search-friendly, how to use leverage your Careers and Products tabs, and how to develop a content strategy to keep your page active. We'll finish up with a discussion on using LinkedIn Ads to drive even more business.
At the beginning of each section is an easy-to-follow checklist that highlights all of the actions you'll need to take. I suggest skimming over this checklist, reading the entire section, and returning to the checklist to implement what you just read. Appended to the end of this eBook is a master checklist of all of the steps in each section, so you can print it out and check off what you've accomplished as you go.
Your Goals
Before you dive in to this eBook, take a minute to write down your goals for using LinkedIn. Why do you want to create a Company Page? To generate leads or website traffic? To meet other local business owners? To find potential employees? To get signups for a webinar? There are as many reasons for using LinkedIn as there are businesses, so think about your reasons carefully.
All of the tactics in this eBook can be applied to any Company Page successfully, but some are better for certain goals than others. LinkedIn Groups, for instance, are fantastic if your goals include establishing yourself as a thought leader and developing your brand. Setting up a Product Page, on the other hand, is more suited for goals surrounding lead generation and increasing social proof.
Your goals will define which tactics you emphasize over others, so it's important that you establish them firmly before continuing.
With that being said, let's begin at the beginning: setting up a LinkedIn Profile.







First Thing's First: Creating a LinkedIn Profile

Before any business can set up a Company Page, they must have an administrator who has their own LinkedIn profile. This section will focus on the basics of setting up a profile so that you can create your Company Page, while the remainder of the eBook will focus on the Page itself and networking on behalf of your business.
Setting Up Your Profile
LinkedIn makes it very easy for new users to create an account, so if you haven't ever visited LinkedIn.com, don't fear! You'll soon get the hang of it. And while we're on the topic, go ahead and enter "LinkedIn.com" into your browser now.
Once on LinkedIn, you'll see an intro page with a form on the left side under the header "Get started—it's free." Follow that advice, and fill out the form: you'll need your first name, last name, an email address and a password.
Hit "Continue" and you'll be taken to a second page with some more data to fill out. Select your country, enter your Zip Code or Postal Code, and fill in some information about your current state of employment. If you are a consultant, you'll want to select "Employed" and "I am self-employed", and then choose an industry from the drop down menu.
LinkedIn will then walk you through a verification process, which requires you to click a link they send to your email. Follow all of the steps after clicking this email, and you'll have a fully activated account!

Note
LinkedIn offers resources for new users in their Learning Center [http://learn.linkedin.com]. Here you'll find guides tailored to new users, entrepreneurs, small businesses, consultants and more, as well as brief overviews of all of the main site features. It's a good idea to familiarize yourself with this resource if you are totally new to LinkedIn.

Optimizing Your Profile
Once activated, you'll be able to modify your Profile with additional information, such as a headline, a profile photo, current and past work positions and a summary section that describes who you are professionally. Fill this out to the best of your ability, focusing on highlighting your skills and expertise.
You'll also want to start building a network that represents your offline or "real-world" network: use LinkedIn's tools for this, including their webmail import [https://www.linkedin.com/secure/uploadContacts?displayWebMail], contacts file uploader [http://www.linkedin.com/uploadContacts?displayUploadContacts] and list of colleagues [http://www.linkedin.com/reconnect?displayCategories]and classmates [http://www.linkedin.com/edurec?display].
Lastly, create a custom profile URL that you can use to share your profile with future connections. You can do this by visiting your profile editing page [http://www.linkedin.com/profile/public-profile-settings].
It's a good idea to follow LinkedIn's profile completeness tips that appear to the right of your profile. These will help you create a solid profile that can be used as a jump-off point for building your business' presence on the network. These tips cover most things we discussed above, and following them is a good way to keep track of how you're building your profile.







How to Craft a Company Page That Highlights Your Business' Value

Once you've created a LinkedIn profile, you're ready to create a Company Page.
A Company Page is the best way to showcase your business and its people, products and services on LinkedIn. It's a central location where anyone on LinkedIn can go to view your company news, job opportunities, products and more.

Note
Before creating your Page, ensure that you are the business owner or employee with permission to establish a Page. You must have a valid email address at your company.

Creating a Company Page is easy; giving it the "wow" factor is tougher, but you'll get there as you continue through your checklist.
Getting Started
First, visit the "Add a Company" page [http://www.linkedin.com/company/add/show] while logged in to LinkedIn. From there, enter your company's name and your company email address, and confirm the email verification.

Tip
Try creating a landing page on your website designed specifically for visitors from LinkedIn, and linking to this page, as opposed to your homepage, in the URL box.

Your Page will be pretty bare until you start to fill in its basic info, so do that now. Update your company's type, size, website URL, industry, operating status, year founded and location.
Your Company Page is made up of four tabs:
• Overview
• Careers
• Products
• Insights
The basic information you're filling out now will appear in the Overview tab—we'll be covering the Careers and Products tabs in other sections.

Note
The third tab on your Company Page, Insight, provides visitors with information about your employees, including employees with new titles, departures, the most common employee skills and more. This tab is not customizable, so we won't cover it in this eBook. Just keep an eye on your employee's profiles from time to time to ensure they are representing your company in the best light.

Choosing the Right Images
Along with your company's basic information, you'll also want to upload a banner image, which appears at the top of your company's Overview tab. In addition, you can upload a standard logo and a square logo, which will be used to represent your Company Page when you post status updates, participate in Groups and Answers and on other areas of the site.
Try to upload images that are branded similarly to your other social media accounts. Using a consistent logo, theme and color palate will help your customers identify with your company across all of its various platforms.
Your "About" Information—Optimize It for Search!
At the bottom of this page you'll see a section for a company description and specialties. If you have some "About" information prepared, go ahead and put that in there now. You can also start adding Specialties. Otherwise, put some placeholder text in there temporarily, as we are going to focus on this text when optimizing your Page for search in the next section.

Want to see some great examples of Company Pages done right? Here's a list of some of my favorites:
• HubSpot [http://www.linkedin.com/company/hubspot]
• Salesforce.com [http://www.linkedin.com/company/salesforce]
• AT&T [http://www.linkedin.com/company/at&t]
• Expedia [http://www.linkedin.com/company/expedia]
• Dell [http://www.linkedin.com/company/dell]








Optimizing Your Company Page for Search

Every business wants to be found in the social web, and using keywords in your LinkedIn Company Page is one of the best ways to makes sure people who are searching for businesses in your industry find yours.
Company Specialties
One of the easiest ways to optimize your Page for search is by crafting relevant keywords for your "Company Specialties" section. You have the opportunity to add over a dozen keywords here that can help your company get found via search. Come up with a list of keywords that you think people would use when searching for a business like yours, or use keywords you've already generated for your website or other social profiles.
If you're having trouble coming up with a list of keywords, try searching for your competitors and see what they're up to on their Company Pages. There's no harm in getting a little inspiration from the competition!
Company Description
Another spot on your Page for some low-hanging SEO fruit is your company description. You want to write a description that is well balanced between being informative to a reader and using relevant keywords to attract the LinkedIn search bot. Use your most powerful keywords in this section, but fit them in naturally with the text. It's also a good idea to put the most relevant "About us" type information at the top of the description section, as this section is truncated after about eight lines.

Tip
Try including a call-to-action in the first few sentences of your description. This can include asking readers to visit your "Products" or "Career" tab, encouraging follows, or asking them to visit your website.

Other Places for Search
If you have any job openings, write full, keyword-rich descriptions for each. Since these also show up in search results, they are another great way to get people - and potentially talented new employees!—to find your company. We'll discuss posting jobs to LinkedIn in detail in the next section.
Also, if you are part of a local business, it's a good idea to write your company's address in LinkedIn in the same way that you write it on your website and other social profiles. This helps with local search.
We're going to be discussing both the new Products tab and a content strategy in later sections, but you'll also want to keep search in mind when writing product descriptions and crafting status updates.
Search Isn't Everything
Here's a good rule of thumb for handling LinkedIn search optimization: anywhere you have the option to edit text, consider search. Incorporate keywords wherever they make sense, but be sure that the focus is on readability and connecting with your network—search and keywords should be a secondary concern.
Now that you've filled out the basic information for your Company Page and have search at the top of your mind, we'll discuss the two main tabs across the top of your Page: Careers and Products.







Optional: Finding Stellar Talent by Posting to Your Careers Tab

LinkedIn is a business network, and no discussion of it would be complete without covering how to attract talented individuals to your team.
Beside the Overview tab on your Company Page, you'll see the Careers tab. Within this tab you can highlight your company's work culture, feature job postings and tap into the millions of talented job seekers on LinkedIn. But there's a catch: it's not free.
Posting a Job to LinkedIn
Posting a job on LinkedIn costs $295 USD for a 30-day listing. There are discounts if you'll be posting multiple jobs at once.

Note
If you're already posted any jobs on LinkedIn, they'll automatically appear in your Careers tab.

If you want to post a job, visit your Careers tab and click the "Post a job" button. You'll be asked to fill out a form that covers the position you're hiring for in detail—be as specific as you can in order to attract the individuals most suited for the job.
You'll then be required to enter your payment information, and the job should appear on your Careers tab once payment has been verified.
If you're going to be posting job openings frequently on LinkedIn, you might want to consider upgrading your Careers tab to a Premium Career Page.
Premium Career Pages
LinkedIn offers two Premium Career Page packages, both of which require a yearly subscription.

Tip
If you're curious about exactly what you get when you subscribe to a Silver or Gold Career Page, take a look at the Career Pages of Google [http://www.linkedin.com/company/google/careers] or Louis Vuitton [http://www.linkedin.com/company/louis-vuitton/careers].

The Silver package enables a suite of customizable widgets to allow businesses to tell their corporate story. From employee spotlights to video testimonials to recruiter contact information, the Silver option highlights a company's work culture and presents it in the best light. The Gold Career Page offers the same functionality as Silver, but also allows the company to create up to five custom versions of their Career Page to show different content based on the viewer's LinkedIn profile.
And the price? Although LinkedIn doesn't advertise the cost of a Silver or Gold Career Page, they're rumored to start at upwards of $10,000 per year.
Most small businesses won't be able to afford the hefty price tag that comes with a Silver or Gold Career Page, and that's OK—you still have plenty of options to brand yourself and show off your company culture on the Overview and Products tabs. But if you're looking to tap into a global workforce of top-notch professionals, it might be worth taking that first baby step and posting your latest job opening for $295 USD. If that's a success and you want to continue to take advantage of LinkedIn's professional network building, moving up to a Silver or Gold Career Page is an option.
For more information on setting up a Silver or Gold Career Page, visit LinkedIn's Career Page website [http://talent.linkedin.com/Career-Pages/] and contact a representative.







How to Highlight Your Products, Get LinkedIn Recommendations and Increase Your Social Currency

LinkedIn updated Company Pages in September 2012 to more prominently feature the Products tab, which is good news for businesses: it means you can now showcase glowing recommendations from satisfied customers. Recommendations from LinkedIn users appear directly beside any products you add to your Products tab.

Note
The Products tab encompasses both products and services, so it can be used by both service companies as well as those selling products.

Positive reviews are one of the best forms of social proof on the internet. They influence consumers and can encourage them to make a purchase—so it's a good idea to attract as many as you can.
Your Products
On your Company Page, you'll notice the Products tab under your header, just beside your Careers tab. It's here that you can list the products and services your company offers.
The page itself will display up to 25 products, as well as a banner image across the top. You can upload up to three banner images to your Products tab that take a user to a webpage of your choice when clicked. It's a good idea to upload at least one image that highlights your best or most popular product, as this will be the first thing visitors see on the page.
Each product features an image, a description, and the number of recommendations (along with images of the latest three people that recommended that product). When they click on a product, users are taken to that product's page which shows a longer description, a bullet list of features, and all recommendations that product has received from other LinkedIn users.

Tip
Optimize each of your products with an eye-catching picture and a description that is compelling—and make sure your audience understands what your product is about within the first five lines, since your description will be truncated after 291 characters.

As the administrator of your Page, you can add up to 25 products. To add your first one, visit your "Products" tab, hover over "Edit" in the top right corner and click on "Add product or service". Fill out the form, and be sure to upload a high resolution photo that best represents your product, a keyword-rich description and list of features. You also have the option to add a specific product landing page here, which you can use instead of your main company website.
Your product description can also include a LinkedIn user as a contact person, a YouTube video and any promotion you might have—if you are able to fill in some or all of these fields, do it! The more information you have, the better.
If you're not sure about what types of products to highlight, consider everything—not just items that your company sells. Do you run a webinar online? Host a podcast? Have you written an eBook or white paper recently? Does your company have a newsletter? You can use your Products tab to advertise your digital content as well as physical products or services.
Once you have one or more products set up on your tab, it's time to start getting recommendations.
Recommendations: The Social Currency of LinkedIn
Just like personal recommendations on a profile, recommendations on specific company products will add credibility and encourage future customers to buy. After all, companies can spend all day shouting "We're great!" from a mountaintop, but a single recommendation from an actual satisfied customer will often be much more valuable.

Note
If you need to delete a recommendation, visit the product page that the review appears on and click "Delete" which appears under the review. If you don't see the "Delete" option, you and two other administrators can click "Flag" to remove the offending review.

When it comes to getting recommendations, LinkedIn supports business owners going out there and asking for them—so do it! If you know you have some satisfied customers in your network, you can ask them to recommend specific products by visiting that product page and clicking the "Request Recommendations" button.
In order to ask someone for a product recommendation, however, your personal account must be connected to them. Because of this, it's a good idea to make it a habit to reach out to leads and clients on LinkedIn when you meet them in order to tap into their social currency later on.
And lastly, just like with your Company Page in general, you can ask your employees to get people in their networks to recommend your products. Just make sure every recommendation is genuine and solicited from a past client or customer.







Learn About Your Customers: LinkedIn Analytics

LinkedIn provides every Company Page administrator with access to analytics: details descriptions of the people who visit your Page and how they interact with your content.
You may be using your own analytics program to monitor your social media efforts, but it's worth checking out LinkedIn's internal analytics, too. And if you don't have anything in place, it's a great tool to start with. After all, if you're not measuring your social media marketing, you're not maximizing on it.
With LinkedIn's insights, you can learn about the demographic and professional makeup of your site's visitors, which areas of your page interests them most, and how this data compares against other companies on LinkedIn. All of the information is compiled in easy-to-read graphs that display monthly data on traffic and how visitors interact with your content.
To get view your Page's analytics, navigate to the "Edit" button at the top right of your Company Page. You'll see a dropdown menu appear with several options: we're interested in "View follower insights" and "View Page insights".
Follower Insights
Here you'll see a detailed breakdown of who is engaging with your Page and in what ways. For instance, you can view the engagement rate, clicks, likes, shares and comments left on your status updates. You can also take a look at your followers' demographics, such as the industries they work in, their job functions, company size, region and more.
The data on this page will help you determine if you're reaching the right audience. Are your followers engaging with your content regularly? Do they work in a related industry? You can learn a lot about potential clients and customers just by checking in on your Follower Insights page every once in a while, and you'll do even better if you incorporate the data into your overall marketing reports.
Page Insights
The data on your Page Insights page will look familiar to anyone used to Google Analytics. It provides information about how often your Page has been viewed, how many unique visitors and clicks you've had in the last seven days, as well as a breakdown of which pieces of content receive the most page views and clicks.
Harnessing the Power of Information
Many small and medium sized businesses simply don't have the budget or the personnel to maintain a robust marketing analytics plan. And that's a shame, because the social web has made it easier than ever before to access data about your customers and clients.
If you aren't tapping in to the wellspring of information provided by LinkedIn and other social networks, you're missing out on powerful data that could help guide your company to improved sales, lead generation and relationships with your customers.
To avoid the mistake of ignoring all of this rich marketing data at your fingertips, try establishing a basic LinkedIn monitoring schedule. Consider checking in to your Followers and Page Insights at the end of every month, and incorporating this into your company's progress checks. You can compare the current month to previous months to see how your Page is growing, or use the demographics data to make sure you're targeting the right audience.
At the very least, check in to your Insights pages periodically to make sure your Page is engaging to your followers. If you are able to add analytics into your social media routine, even just once a month, you'll be armed with much more knowledge than many of your competitors and can fully leverage your company's presence on LinkedIn.







Building a Network of Partners, Vendors, and Potential Leads

When two individuals connect on LinkedIn, they have to go through an introduction or connection request process—it's a little different for Company Pages. As the administrator of a Page, you don't have to approve any requests for individuals to follow your company. All they have to do is click "Follow" in the top right corner of your Company Page. Followers will receive your status updates, new job and product postings and more.
Getting Followers the Active Way: Ask!
There are a few, easy-to-do steps that you can take to build your network of followers.
The first thing you should do is reach out to the network you've already built with your personal profile, and let them know you've created a Company Page. Send a short message asking your connections to follow your company—if you've built a good sized network of individuals who are closely related to your industry, you're likely to get some follows.
If your Page is brand new, you'll want to ask your employees and close business partners to follow, and then share your Page with their networks. Even half a dozen employees sending short messages asking their connections to follow your Page can result in hundreds of new follows.
Next, tap into your other social networks and send a tweet or post a status update letting them know that you've created a LinkedIn Page—and don't forget to include a call-to-action asking them to follow you! You can send a few tweets, spaced out by 24 hours or more, to make sure you catch the majority of your followers.
If you are part of any Groups on LinkedIn, you can also consider asking members to follow your Company Page. Only choose Groups that you are already active in, and whose members would actually be interested in your company.
Getting Followers the Passive Way: Tell!
There are also a number of more passive ways you can grow your company's network. For instance, try adding a Company Follow Widget [https://developer.linkedin.com/plugins] to your homepage. You can also include your Page's URL in your email signature, on your business card, in your Facebook "About" section, or in your Twitter profile.
If people know that you have a Company Page, they're more likely to follow you—after all, people have to be aware that the Page exists before they can follow it!
The people who choose to follow your company on LinkedIn have a lot of latent value to you. Some might be vendors you could work with in the future, or they might be customers interested in purchasing your products. Recent stats from HubSpot show that LinkedIn is 277% better at lead generation than Facebook or Twitter, so attracting followers to your Company Page is smart.
It takes effort to build an offline network, and the same goes for one on LinkedIn. Be persistent but polite, and always remember that asking anyone to follow your Page is asking them a favor—don't harass them and don't be offended if they don't take action.







How to Create a Professional Content Strategy to Keep Your Business on the Minds of Your Connections

It isn't enough to optimize your Company Page on LinkedIn and forget about it—after all, LinkedIn is a social network, so you've got to keep your page active if you want to achieve your goals.
Sending Your First Status Update
Just like a personal profile, a Company Page can post a status update that will appear in its Overview tab, as well as the news feeds of anyone following that company. Here's how to do it, if you haven't sent your first status update yet:
1. On your Overview page, enter your update in the "Share an update" box
2. If you're including a link, click "Attach a link" and enter the URL
3. Click "Share"
LinkedIn recommends that company status updates are authentic, relevant, and short. If a status feels spammy, people won't share it, and sharing is the key to success on social media. In fact, status updates that appear to be spam or try to sell their product too hard often lose a company business.
Featuring and Targeting Your Status Updates
Once you've sent your first few status updates, you can feature one to stay at the top of your update stream for 48 hours. To do this, simply click "Feature this update" after you've posted the status you want to feature.
Additionally, you can target status updates to specific segments of your company's followers. If you have a new product that would appeal to inbound marketers, you might want to show a status update related to this product only to them—your retail and executive followers might not be interested.
LinkedIn allows companies to target their status updates to specific followers on the basis of company size, job function, industry, seniority, location and more. To target a status update, simply click the dropdown menu that defaults to "Share with: All followers", and select "Targeted audience" instead. From here you can select any number of demographics for that particular status update to target.
When and How Often? Developing Your Own Content Strategy
Most people recommend you post to your Company Page at least once per day. If you don't have the resources, try starting with once per week and working up to once a day. And if this sounds daunting, consider recycling some of the content you've been posting to Facebook, Twitter or your blog: a blog post, for instance, can be re-shared on your LinkedIn Page to earn it more exposure. When recycling content, just be sure to create unique wording for each social network.

Tip
When posting status updates pointing to original content, like an eBook or a webinar, consider developing a unique landing page for each product that captures the contact information of visitors. Asking for an email address before giving away a free eBook is common practice these days, and it can help you develop and nurture leads for potential future sales.

When developing your content strategy, always keep your audience in mind. Ask yourself "Am I offering value to my customers, clients and prospects?" with every status update.
It's a good idea to use your status updates to alert your network to current promotions you have, new products and company news. You can also link to resources that will help your audience in some way, such as productivity tips, industry news and more.
You'll want to develop a measurement system to determine the success of your status updates. If you're sending status updates to the wrong people or at the wrong time, they'll be falling on deaf ears and will not benefit your company.
Consider testing some or all of the following, depending on your LinkedIn goals:
• Different content type
• Type of language/voice (humorous, helpful, professional, etc)
• Different times of day
• Posting frequency
To determine the success of each of these different factors, you can use the metrics provided by LinkedIn in the page and follower insights sections within the "Admin tools" dropdown menu, or use external marketing software to measure your success.
For instance, LinkedIn provides you with demographic information. This can help you answer the question "Is my content reaching the right people?" Since LinkedIn is a business network, you have a great opportunity to target people in particular job functions, regions, working at different sizes of companies, industries and more.
LinkedIn also provides data for each of your status updates, including engagement rate, clicks and likes. Combining this with your overall follower count and demographic data can be invaluable in determining how successful different types of content are.
It takes some trial and error, but you'll eventually reach the sweet spot in your content strategy—that point where you get the maximum return on your efforts. Don't be discouraged if you don't see massive engagement rates right away, as it takes time and consistently valuable content to attract the response you want.







Create or Join a LinkedIn Group to Become a Leader in Your Space

LinkedIn Groups are a great way to connect to professionals in your industry, build out your network, market your products and services and share information. Unfortunately, you can't join a Group as a Company Page, but they can still be a valuable asset to your business' presence on LinkedIn.
When considering Groups, you have two options: create one or join an existing one. Creating a Group takes more consistent work and attention, but gives you more control over the topics discussed; joining a Group allows you to associate with fellow members and is less work to manage, albeit giving you less control over the message.
Joining an Existing Group
Choose your Groups wisely. The more relevant your business is to the Groups you've joined, the more likely its members will care about your products and services.
To join a Group visit the "Groups Directory" page within the "Groups" tab along the top navigation bar. Here, you'll be able to perform a detailed search of the nearly 1.5 million Groups on LinkedIn to find the handful that are right for you and your business.
It might take a few tries, but you should be able to find some interesting Groups by using the keywords you developed for your Company Page Specialties.
Once you've identified one or more Groups you think you'd like to participate in, click on the Group's name to visit its homepage. If you visit the "Group Profile" page within the "More" tab, you'll be able to read the Group description and see if any people in your network are already members.
If it sounds like a good fit for your business, click "Join" on the main Group page or anywhere else you see the button, and your request will be sent to the Group managers. Once accepted, you're in! You can start posting to the discussion board and interacting with fellow members.

Tip
An added benefit of being part of a LinkedIn Group is the ability to contact its members. You can send a message to a fellow Group member even if they are a second or third level connection, without having to pay for an InMail ($10) as is the case outside of Groups.

While participating in a Group, you have an opportunity to establish yourself as an expert in your industry through discussions and announcements. Most groups foster an engaging, back-and-forth atmosphere, and can be great for your communication efforts. Once you've built trust and have helped a few members of the Group, it's a fine idea to share your Company Page—just make sure it actually offers value to the Group members you share it with.
Creating Your Own Group
If you want to start your own Group, mouse over "Groups" in the top navigation bar and click on "Create Group". On this page, you can customize your Group: add a logo, choose a name and type, write a brief summary and a longer description (keeping keywords in mind), add your contact information and more.
Most of the form is pretty intuitive, but you'll want to pay particular attention to the "Access" section.
You have the option to allow anyone to join your group without requiring approval from a manager (Auto-Join), or restricting access only to those who have been approved (Request to Join). If you're looking to start a Group and grow it fast, choose Auto-Join: members won't face a barrier to entry and will be more likely to sign up. However, if you're looking to start a more exclusive Group for a smaller number of members—say, your current clients only, or local businesses—it might be a good idea to select Request to Join.
For even more exposure, be sure the box beside "Display this group in the Groups Directory" is checked. This will allow your Group to be found by LinkedIn users performing searches.
Once your Group is created, you can manage membership by navigating to "Your Groups" page, clicking on the Group you created and clicking the "Manage" tab. Here, you can pre-approve certain members to become part of your Group, or block others from joining.
As a creator of a Group, it's up to you to be the community manager. You have several options when it comes to content that can help keep the conversation in your Group free from spam messages and unscrupulous individuals.
From your Manage tab you'll be able to require that new members have a "cooling off" period before they're able to post, to be sure they want to both listen and speak to other members. You can set the time between their signing up and being able to post to as many days as you like. Same goes for people who are new to LinkedIn itself or who have few connections—you can require that they be a member for a certain number of days before being able to post. Similarly, you can decide whether the entire LinkedIn community or just your Group's members can post, and whether new posts require your moderation.
If you keep a watchful eye on your group and help guide the conversation, it will flourish in no time, and you'll be at the center of a vibrant professional community. There's really no better marketing on social media than that!
Groups Best Practices
Participation in a group should be focused on being helpful and providing useful information to members, but you can also use Groups to alert members to your company's offerings. For instance, linking to a SEO webinar you'll be hosting in a SEO and social media marketing group can net you some new customers—just make sure your marketing message is secondary to offering helpful and valuable information.
Since Group communications are from your profile and not your Company Page, try to keep things a bit more human-sounding. People are looking to connect with other people in Groups, not marketing robots!







Optional: Using LinkedIn Ads for Low-Cost, Targeted Marketing

Just like Facebook and Twitter, LinkedIn offers ads throughout its site for businesses looking to attract more followers.
Ads on LinkedIn can direct users to your website or to your Company Page, so they're a great way to target professionals in your industry—you can target ads by geography, gender, company name, company size, job function, industry and more.
Creating Your Ads
To get started advertising on LinkedIn, just visit [https://www.linkedin.com/ads/create]. From here, you can name your ad campaign, choose the look and feel of the ad, write the headline and copy, and choose an image. You can create up to 15 variations of a single ad, so try experimenting with the words and images you use.

Tip
Including a call-to-action (words that prompt a user to take an action or click on the ad) will improve the level of engagement your ads get.

Next, you'll be presented with targeting options. You can show ads to senior executives at Fortune 500 companies, women working in marketing, people skilled in website design in your area, or any number of other parameters. Take some time to go through the targeting options, as who you show your ads to will determine their success.
Paying for Your Ads
The final step is to determine how much you will pay for your ads, and how long your campaign will run. LinkedIn is similar to Google, Facebook and Twitter in that it has a bidding structure in place for its ad campaigns. As an advertiser, you'll bid the maximum amount you're willing to pay for each click (CPC), or for each 1,000 impressions (CPM) your ad receives.
Bidding for a single click starts at $2 USD and goes up depending on how you targeted your ads in the previous step. You're able to set a daily budget, and your ad will be shown as often as possible each day within this daily budget. You can set your campaign to run indefinitely, or to end at a certain date.
For example, let's say you want at least 10 people to click your ads each day for the next 7 days. You've put in a bid of $2.50 per click. This would mean that your daily ad budget would be $25, and the total you'd spend on ads over the course of the week would be $175.
It isn't necessary to buy ads in order to find success on LinkedIn. However, many small and medium sized businesses see a good return on investment when targeting professionals in a particular industry on LinkedIn.
Monitoring Your Ads
If you do decide to spend some money advertising on LinkedIn, make sure you have a monitoring/analytics system in place. It's absolutely essential that you're able to track your ad clicks all the way through the sales funnel to leads and eventually sales, or you run the risk of wasting a good chunk of your marketing budget on an inefficient campaign.







Conclusion
As the social business network, LinkedIn has a lot to offer small and medium sized businesses. Whether you're looking to hire talented individuals or sell a product, your business can benefit from creating a Company Page and engaging on the network.
There are 76 items total in the checklist at the end of this eBook. Some are better suited to businesses with a marketing budget while other are better for branding, but they're all here to help you on your LinkedIn journey.
It's my hope that after reading this book, you've come away with actionable tips you can implement today to make your company's presence on LinkedIn the best it can be.
If you need any help, have questions about LinkedIn or just want to chat social media, I'd love to hear from you! You can email me at lauren@laurendugan.com or tweet to me at @lauren_dugan.
Good luck!







Appendix: Your Printable LinkedIn Checklist












Practical Social Marketing Tips to Make More Money

Twitter 101: Everything You Need to Know about Twitter Marketing
Use Twitter to turbocharge your brand and business, engage users, connect with your industry, capture indispensable customer/prospect data, and build word-of-mouth that translates directly into sales!
Lauren DuganISBN: 978-0-13-312095-0$4.99

In-House SEO: Taming the Challenges to Win in Search
Take charge of SEO in your organization: do what it takes to get outstanding search results that translate into improved business performance!
Melanie MitchellISBN: 978-0-13-312099-8$4.99

How to Use Location-Based Marketing to Grow Your Sales and Revenue
Use Location-Based Marketing to find and convert new prospects more efficiently than ever before!
Jaime TurnerISBN: 978-0-13-325601-7$5.99
www.ftpress.com/marketingshorts







How to Build a Mobile Website
Jamie Turner







© 2012 by Pearson EducationPublished by Pearson Education, Inc.Publishing as FTPressUpper Saddle River, New Jersey 07458
Company and product names mentioned herein are the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, in any form or by any means, without permission in writing from the publisher.
ISBN-10: 0-13-312103-8ISBN-13: 978-0-13-312103-2
For more information, please contact us at info@ftpress.com







How to Build a Mobile Website
If you're in business, you probably have several key issues that get most of your attention. You might spend a great deal of time concentrating on customer service, or logistics, or even human resources. You might also spend a great deal of time worrying about keeping costs low, retaining employees, or preventing competitors from taking your customers.
But if I were to ask you what your number-one job was as a business person, what would you say?
If you're a tax accountant, you might say your number-one job is to deliver accurate tax returns. If you're a real estate agent, you might say your number-one job is to sell homes to your clients. And if you're a bookstore owner, you might say your number-one job is to provide top quality books at a reasonable price.
Interestingly, none of those answers is correct.
Why do I say that? Because many people don't understand that their number-one job is to get new customers. That's not to say that you don't have other important tasks; but before anything else, you have to focus on customer acquisition. After all, if you don't concentrate on getting new customers today, then you won't be in business tomorrow.
If acquiring new customers is one of your most important goals, the next question you might ask is this: How do I go about acquiring new customers? What tools can I use to connect my business with  prospects who might be interested in buying my products or services?
Glad you asked. But before we discuss the answer, let's talk about a few interesting statistics.
Did you know that by 2013, the number-one way people will access the Internet will be via mobile device?1 Or that mobile coupons are redeemed 10 times more frequently than traditional coupons?2 Or that half of all smartphone owners have scanned a QR code and that 18% of them have made a purchase after scanning?3
Those statistics, and others like them, should give you a clear indication that more and more consumers are using their mobile devices to connect with the brands they love. Given that, it's important for those brands to have a website that's designed for a mobile screen. After all, Google reports that 40% of smartphone owners have turned to a competitor's website after a bad mobile experience.4

What Is A Smartphone?
A smartphone is simply a mobile device that can access the Internet using a graphical user interface. If you've ever used a phone with the Apple, Android, or Windows operating system, then you've used a smartphone. More than 50% of the U.S. population now owns a smartphone.

Understanding the Mobile Landscape
Before we get into the specifics about how to design and build a mobile website, let's take a look at the mobile landscape. Many people don't have a clear understanding of all the mobile tools available to them, so it might help to provide a brief description of the tools before we move forward. Here goes:
• Mobile Website: This is similar to a desktop website except that it's designed for a mobile screen. A good mobile website will have the same branding elements as your desktop site, but it'll be scaled down and simpler to navigate.
• Short Message Service (SMS): Texting is the number-one activity on mobile phones, surpassing even verbal conversations. Organizations such as the American Red Cross and American Idol have used SMS to connect their brands with their customers.
• Mobile Display Ads: This is a fancy term for banner ads on mobile devices. We've all seen them. Next time you get the chance, click through on one—it'll help you get a sense of how other companies are using mobile to connect with customers.
• Mobile Paid Search: Google, Bing, and Yahoo provide paid search tools for desktop users as well as mobile users. Mobile paid search is underutilized by many companies, so there are competitive advantages for companies that have chosen to use this powerful tool.
• Location-Based Marketing: Tools in this category include Foursquare, Yelp, and WHERE. If you've ever "checked-in" at a retail location using one of these, then you've used a location-based marketing tool.
• Mobile Apps: These are mini-software programs that live on your smartphone. There are more than 700,000 mobile apps in the iTunes store alone.
• QR Codes: You've probably seen these black-and-white checkered squares on print ads and in-store posters. Next time you see one, scan it using a QR code reader on your smartphone. They often provide access to special discounts and coupons.
When familiarizing yourself with the mobile landscape, it also helps to understand who the dominant players are from a carrier and operating system point-of-view. The carriers are the companies that provide mobile phone service to billions of people around the globe. In the U.S., the primary carriers include AT&T, Verizon, Sprint, and T-Mobile.
Each carrier has smartphones that are used to make calls, access mobile apps, and visit the Internet. The smartphones require software, called an operating system, to connect to calls, apps, and the Internet. Google's Android operating system has about 38% market share, followed by Apple's operating system with about 25% market share. Blackberry has about 15% market share, and Windows has about 10%.
Are tablets considered mobile devices? Well, yes. Even though they're slightly larger than most smartphones, they're considered part of the mobile landscape since people use them while mobile to access apps and the Internet. If you include tablet computers in the figures for operating systems above, then Apple's iOS would be the primary player, followed by Android. There are several other tablet operating systems, but for the most part, Apple and Android dominate the market.
The First Step to Building a Mobile Website: Getting Inside the Mind of Your Customer.
In many people's excitement to build a mobile website, they forget one of the most important first steps—getting inside the mind of your customer. After all, if you don't understand your customer, then you won't be able to design something for them that provides a satisfactory experience. So it's important to start the process by thinking through how your customer interacts with your brand.
The first question to ask is what is it you're really selling? Oh, sure, if you're a restaurant owner, you're selling food. But in addition to that, what is it you're really selling?
In the case of a restaurant, you're selling escape, companionship, and convenience. After all, most of us don't visit restaurants just because we're hungry. We visit restaurants because we like the environment, we like being around other people, and we like not having to wash the dishes at the end of the meal.
If you own a running shoe store, you're not just selling running shoes—you're selling health, youth, and perhaps even weight loss. A gardening center isn't just selling plants—it's selling design, lifestyle, and expertise.
Now that you've taken a moment to get inside the mind of your customer, you're ready to move onto the next step, which is to explore how your customer will interact with your brand when they visit your mobile website. As mentioned previously, the odds are pretty good that they'll be mobile when visiting your mobile site. In other words, they'll be in a shopping mall, in a restaurant, or at a coffee shop.
Given that, it's important to think through what pieces of information your visitor will be looking for on your mobile site. The odds are, they won't be interested in reading your company press releases or your corporate bios. What they are interested in is quick, easy-to-access information about your location, your hours of operation and your phone number.
It's also important to keep in mind that your mobile site should be thumb-friendly. The graphic on this page shows what the 60 Second Marketer website looks like as a desktop version displayed on a smartphone.
As you can see, the navigation on the 60 Second Marketer website has been distilled down to six thumb-friendly icons. Each of the icons drives the visitor to other pages on the mobile website, including the 60 Second Marketer blog, YouTube channel, and keynote speaking page.
It's important to note that the mobile version of the 60 Second Marketer site is very streamlined. Everything has been minimized both in design and in content with the express purpose of keeping things simple. Remember, the experience on your mobile website or any mobile website is to provide quick, easy-to-access information for the visitor on the go.

The mobile website for the 60 Second Marketer has simplified navigation that helps reduce accidental clicks.
Building a Mobile Website: Understanding the Options
Okay, now that you've spent some time getting inside the mind of your customer and analyzing the key elements they'd like to see on your mobile website, it's time to roll-up your shirtsleeves and get started with the nuts-and-bolts side of the equation.
There are three primary ways you can build a mobile website. The first is by going to your web hosting company and using one of their automated systems that simply repackages your desktop site for a mobile screen. This is not your best choice because, as we've discussed, someone visiting your mobile site probably isn't interested in the detailed information available on your desktop site—they are interested in key pieces of information they can access quickly. When a hosting company simply reformats your desktop site for a mobile screen, the experience for the users is, quite frankly, a pain in the you-know-what. As such, you should avoid this approach.
The second primary option for building a mobile website is a plug-and-play system.

Three Mobile Website Categories
There are three primary approaches you can use to build a mobile website:
1. Web Hosting Company
2. Plug-and-Play
a. WordPress, Drupal, etc.
b. Mobify, MoFuse, etc.
c. HubSpot, Eloqua, etc.
3. Ad agency or web design firm

There are several subcategories within this second option. The first subcategory is for bloggers who use WordPress, Drupal, or one of the other primary blogging platforms. These platforms have plug-ins that do a very effective job of reformatting your blog for a mobile screen. Blogs are simply streamlined websites, so it's easier for a plug-in to do an effective job streamlining the blog for a mobile screen. (As mentioned earlier, when it's an entire website that's being reformatted, the results are less-than-optimal. But when it's a simple blog that's being reformatted, the results can be better because blogs are much more streamlined than full-blown websites.)
The second subcategory includes online software programs that can create stand-alone mobile websites for your company. These mobile websites would be entirely separate from your regular desktop site. Some of the better-known tools in this subcategory include Mobify, MoFuse, and Onbile. If you're trying to keep things very simple and don't want to spend much time developing your mobile website, these tools can be a quick and easy way to get a mobile website up-and-running quickly.
The third subcategory is for people using marketing software programs like HubSpot or Eloqua. These tools are all-encompassing online platforms that allow users to create social media campaigns, email marketing campaigns, and other digital marketing campaigns. As part of their service offering, their software creates a mobile website using the existing content you've provided.
The third primary option for building a mobile website is to turn to your ad agency or web design firm. The odds are pretty good that they already know how to create a mobile website, so you're probably in good hands. That said, it never hurts to understand the technical side of building a mobile website. In the next section, we discuss the nuts-and-bolts aspects of mobile website design.
Building a Mobile Website: Step I
As you may know, a website is nothing other than a bunch of digital files that are hosted on a bank of computers at your web hosting provider. When someone types in your URL, the hosting company displays the digital files as a web page on their screen.
So when someone types www.YourWebsite.com into their browser, your home page displays on their screen. If they type www.YourWebsite.com/blog into their browser, they are directed to your blog. In similar fashion, if they type www.YourWebsite.com/bios into their web browser, their browser displays your corporate bios on their screen.
Understanding the anatomy of a URL will come in handy as we dive into the technical side of building a mobile website, so let's do a quick review of some of the terms you should be familiar with.
The Uniform Resource Locator, or URL, is simply the address of a website. www.YourWebsite.com or www.WidgetsAreUs.com are URLs.
The domain name is the part of the URL that includes the letters before the .com or .org at the end. YourWebsite and WidgetsAreUs are examples of domain names.
The domain extension is the part of the website address that comes after the domain name. Examples of these include .com, .org, .tv, .mobi, and .edu.
The subdomain is the part of your website address that appears before the domain name. For example, www.m.YourWebsite.com is a subdomain for YourWebsite.com.
The subdirectory is the part of your website address that comes after the domain extension. When we say that www.YourWebsite.com/blog would take people to the web page on your site that contains your blog, the subdirectory acts as the roadmap to get them there.
Interestingly, when someone types your URL into their web browser, the HTML code on your site can tell what size screen they're using. In other words, the HTML code can analyze if the screen is 1100 pixels wide, 950 pixels wide, or 800 pixels wide.
This is important because it means that you can install a line of HTML code onto your site that redirects people to the appropriate page on your website based on their screen size. For example, if the visitor is viewing your website from a desktop with a screen that's more than 600 pixels wide, it can direct people to the regular site located at www.YourWebsite.com. But if they're viewing websites from a smartphone screen that's less than 600 pixels wide, then they can be redirected to your mobile site located at www.YourWebsite.com/mobile, or www.YourWebsite.mobi, or www.m.YourWebsite.com.
By using this technique, you've simplified how someone accesses your mobile website. In other words, when you add the browser redirect HTML code into your website, you're letting the code do all the heavy lifting. All you have to do is sit back and let the HTML code figure out if the person visiting your site should go to your regular site or to your mobile site.
What's the specific code that should be added to the site? And where should you place it on your site? Those are important questions, but before you add the browser redirect code to your site, let's talk about designing and creating your mobile web pages. After all, your redirect code needs to point people to a specific URL, so step one is to create mobile web pages so that you can drop those URLs into the browser redirect code.
There are three primary approaches for creating a URL that points to your mobile website. Here are some examples:
1. http://www.YourWebsite.mobi
2. http://www.YourWebsite.com/mobile
3. http://m.YourWebsite.com
As you can see, the first approach is to create a URL with a .mobi domain extension. The second approach is to create a subdirectory ending in /mobile. And the third approach is to create an m. subdirectory where your mobile website will be housed.
Since the browser redirect code simply redirects visitors to the mobile URL, you could use any of these three approaches and be in good shape. That said, option #2 and option #3 are the most common approaches. Option #2 is simply a page on your website that's been designed for a mobile screen. Option #3 is a subdomain, which requires working with your hosting company to set it up.
The subdomain approach takes a little more know-how, but the advantage is that an m. subdomain is like having a big sign on your mobile website that says: "Hey Google, Yahoo, and Bing—this is my mobile website, not my regular website. You can tell because the URL includes an m. subdomain." That imaginary sign should help improve your visibility when people do mobile searches on Google, Yahoo, or Bing.
After you've decided which of the three approaches mentioned are best for you, it's time to create your mobile website. We're going to provide some specific tips about mobile website design later, but for now, the key thing to remember is to create mobile web pages that are simple, clean, and that load quickly.
If you're going with option two or three, your mobile website home page might have a URL that looks like http://www.YourWebsite.com/mobile or like http://m.YourWebsite.com.
In similar fashion, the second page of your mobile website might look like http://www.YourWebsite.com/mobilepage2 or like http://m.YourWebsite.com/page2.
Once you've created a couple of mobile pages for your site, you'll want to add the browser redirect code. All that is pretty simple. Just adapt the following HTML code and drop it in before the </head> on the home page of your primary website.
<script type="text/javascript"><!-if (screen.width <= 599){document.location = "http://www.YourWebsite.com/mobile";}//-></script>
(Side note: Don't forget to replace "http://www.YourWebsite.com/mobile" with your own URL)
So, let's do a quick recap. We've established that you have three primary approaches when it comes to creating a URL for your mobile website. The first is with a .mobi extension, the second is with a /mobile subdirectory, and the third is with an m. subdomain.
Once you've decided which approach to use, you'll want to create several mobile web pages with specific URLs. After you've created a few mobile web pages, you'll want to add the browser redirect code the </head> on the home page of your primary website.
The next step is to do a trial run to see if everything is working properly. At this stage of the game, don't worry about the design of your mobile web pages. Your primary job during these early stages is to simply test whether the mechanics of the site are working properly.
Building a Mobile Website: Step II
After you've created your initial mobile web pages and tested the browser redirect code on your smartphone, you'll want to start zeroing in on making sure your web pages are designed properly. One of the key issues is to be sure that your mobile web pages are optimized for mobile visitors. By that, we mean that they're clean, simple, and they load quickly.
You'll also want to be sure that your mobile site has the same branding elements as your regular website. Even though the mobile site will be designed for a mobile screen, visitors should feel as though the mobile site and the main site are part of the same family. Be sure you use the same typeface, color scheme, and other design elements in both sites so that people have the same brand experience when they visit either version.
With all that in mind, what follows are 7 tips you can use to make sure your mobile website is as user-friendly as possible:
1. Keep an Eye on Design: Many people visiting your site will be doing so while they're walking through a mall or sitting in a coffee shop. Because of that, your mobile site should be as clean and simple as possible.
2. Acknowledge a Need for Speed: Research indicates that people accessing mobile websites are even less patient than they are with desktop sites. Make sure your mobile site loads quickly and easily for your visitors.
3. Be a Minimalist: Drop-down menus, complex forms, and other intricacies are a no-no for mobile websites. A mobile website should be much simpler to navigate than your regular website. Only include pages that are absolutely necessary for a mobile visitor.
4. Include a Link Back to Your Main Site: Some mobile users will still want to access your primary website. It's a good practice to include a "Visit Main Site" link somewhere on your mobile site's home page.
5. Be Local: Many of your visitors will be interested in finding the physical location of your business. If possible, include a store locator on your site or a map that shows local locations. It's also a good idea to include a click-to-call link so people can dial your phone number in one click.
6. Test for Success: The mobile landscape continues to evolve and, as such, your site may not render perfectly on every handset. That said, it's a good idea to test your site across many platforms (such as Android, iPhone, Windows, Blackberry) to be sure it's rendering properly in as many places as possible.
7. Be Thumb-Friendly: Your visitor will appreciate it if you design your site to be thumb-friendly. Make sure buttons and links have a lot of white space around them to reduce accidental clicks.
Building a mobile website is not a "set-it and forget-it" exercise. It's really about a continuous evolution of mobile design. Because of that, you'll want to continuously make tweaks and improvements to your site to ensure that it continuously evolves into everything it can be.
Conclusion
Building a mobile website is a multifaceted process. The starting point is to get inside the mind of your customer so that you understand how they want to engage with your brand via mobile. In general, you'll find that your customers want and expect a mobile website to be clean, simple, and easy to navigate.
The next step is to finalize the technical aspects of your website by adding the browser redirect code that points to your mobile website. The browser redirect code can identify if the visitor is coming from a desktop browser or a mobile browser. Because of that, it can redirect the visitor to the appropriate website.
After you've addressed those first steps, you'll want to tweak the design of your site so that it's user-friendly and easy to navigate. Remember, a site should be thumb-friendly and should contain only the key pieces of information that a mobile visitor would be interested in seeing. Anything else is just added complexity, which doesn't serve your users well.
Remember, building a mobile website is an ongoing process. The best sites are under a continuous state of evolution that improves the experience for your visitors over time. By constantly testing the site and making minor adjustments and improvements, you can be sure that your visitors will come back again and again.
And that's the main point, right?
Endnotes
1 http://www.gartner.com/it/page.jsp?id=1278413
2 http://www.emarketer.com/PressRelease.aspx?R=1008578
3 http://blog.cmbinfo.com/?Tag=cmb%20consumer%20pulse
4 Google, The Mobile Playbook, pg 13







Practical Social Marketing Tips to Make More Money

How to Make Money with Mobile Media
Why mobile media is right for your business—and quick, easy, low-cost ways to get started right now!
Jamie TurnerISBN: 978-0-13-257540-9$4.99


How to Make Money with Mobile Marketing 2D Codes
25 great ways to use 2D codes to grow your business and differentiate yourself from competitors—plus a practical plan for getting started.
Jamie TurnerISBN: 978-0-13-273199-7$4.99


How to Use Social Media Monitoring Tools
Your company needs to gain clear and substantial value from its social media investments. Getting results begins with monitoring.
Jamie TurnerISBN: 978-0-13-303765-4$4.99

www.ftpress.com/marketingshorts







Twitter 101
Everything You Need to Know about Twitter Marketing
Lauren Dugan







© 2013 by Pearson EducationPublished by Pearson Education, Inc.Publishing as FTPressUpper Saddle River, New Jersey 07458
Company and product names mentioned herein are the trademarks or registeredtrademarks of their respective owners.All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, in any form or by any means, without permission in writing from the publisher.
ISBN-10: 0-13-312095-3ISBN-13: 978-0-13-312095-0
For more information, please contact us at info@ftpress.com







Twitter 101: Everything You Need to Know about Twitter Marketing
My Goal for You
Twitter is huge. It's the hangout of famous faces, big-wig politicians and Fortune 500 CEOs. It's the second largest social network in North America after Facebook. And it's where you need to be.
Your business has the opportunity to simultaneously brand itself, engage users, connect with your industry, benefit from word-of-mouth and dig into robust data about your customers—all in 140 characters or less.
Twitter can act as your business' digital billboard, a branded outpost for company news and press releases. It can act as your customer support channel, deftly answering customer complaints and questions within minutes of their being asked. It can also act as a networking tool, a traffic driver to your website, a data-gathering tool and a lead generator.
If you've got the right strategy in place, Twitter can be one of the most powerful parts of your marketing toolbox—and it doesn't have to cost you anything much more than your time.
By the end of this book, you'll have dozens of actionable tips and tools you can use to harness the world's largest real-time, open social network. If you're a Twitter novice you'll come away a pro; if you're a pro you'll come away with a whole arsenal of new tactics to take your Twitter marketing to the next level.
Twitter Works: Three Companies That Made Money from Twitter
Not convinced that Twitter can actually make you money? Here are three businesses that built their success on Twitter—and after reading this book, you'll be part of their club.
Mozy
Back in 2009 the marketing team at Mozy—an online data backup software service—was just getting started on Twitter, with a few hundred loyal followers and a good-natured rapport with its fans. But it wanted to take its tweeting to the next level. It started a weekly Twitter contest, giving away one year of free backup to a random Twitter follower who tweeted an entry.
Throughout this multi-week campaign, Mozy not only grew its followers by the thousands, but it also saw as many as ten to twenty paid customers sign up each week, all thanks to the word-of-mouth its Twitter contest generated.
Kogi Korean BBQ
It's not easy selling gourmet tacos out of the back of a truck in downtown LA. Just ask Kogi BBQ—when it started driving out to LA nightlife hotspots with its delicious after-bar fare, it only saw an average of ten customers per stop.
But then it got its drivers to start tweeting the location of their next stop. And soon the Twitter buzz (as well as the practical benefit of customers actually knowing where they'd show up next) led to an increase from about ten customers per stop to 300 to 800 per stop. And it's still growing.
Zappos.com
Tony Hsieh founded Zappos.com, the now-famous online retailer, back in 2007. At the time he was only using Twitter for personal use, keeping in touch with friends and family.
But then he got the inspired idea to get his employees on Twitter, tweeting on behalf of his brand. He built such goodwill and buzz about Zappos.com that the word-of-mouth and repeat business has blossomed it into a company generating over $1 billion in sales each year—thanks largely to the more than 2 million happy Zappos.com Twitter followers.
You can use Twitter as a low-cost, low-risk marketing tool and be the next Mozy, Kogi BBQ or Zappos.com. All it takes is creativity and dedication—and the marketing tactics outlined in this book.
Twitter 101: Setting Up Your Account to Attract the Right Followers
Setting up a Twitter account is a simple process; optimizing it takes a bit of work. It isn't enough to just have a Twitter account, you have to brand it, focus it and make it shine.
How to Create a Twitter Account
Step 1: Visit Twitter.com. On the home page, fill out the "New to Twitter" section, including your full name, email and password. Hit "Sign up for Twitter".
Step 2: On the following page, confirm your password, read Twitter's Terms of Service and choose your username.

Note
Your username is one of the two most important pieces of identification on Twitter, along with your profile picture. It will accompany every tweet you send and is used by other Twitter users to talk to you.
Give your username some thought rather than settling on one that you come up with in the spur of the moment. You can choose almost anything as your username, but I recommend using your company name, a brand or product name, or your personal name.
Your username can be changed, but changing it may confuse followers who are used to referring to you by your old username—so try to choose a good one off the bat!

Step 3: Take Twitter's new user tutorial, which will walk you through the basics of what a tweet is, how to follow accounts and how to fill out your profile. This takes all of 60 seconds and is a great crash course for anyone completely new to Twitter. Don't skip it!
How to Optimize Your Twitter Account
Congratulations, you're now on Twitter!
But before you get excited and start tweeting, you have four items on your "to-do" list:
1. Upload a photo
2. Fill out your bio
3. Add a link
4. Customize your background
These four elements make up your Twitter profile, and it is vitally important that you complete them before you dive into Twitter. They will help you brand your business and create immediate recognition among your followers whenever you send out a tweet.
Profile Picture
The profile picture you choose to represent your brand on Twitter is not only the first thing people see when they visit your profile page, but it is also attached to every tweet you send out. Along with your username, it is the most visible piece of information about you on Twitter.
I recommend choosing one of two types of profile pictures when optimizing your profile: a logo or a headshot.
Headshots work best for accounts run by a single person. If you are the CEO of your company and you'll be doing the majority of the tweeting, using your headshot will create trust and accountability between you and your followers.
A logo is a good idea for accounts that are tweeting on behalf of a company. If you have a company logo, using this as your profile picture will help create cohesive branding on Twitter as well as continuity between Twitter and any other web properties, such as your website or Facebook page, where you display your logo.
Remember to keep your profile picture professional, clearly visible and on-message for your brand.
Bio
You only have 160 characters to tell the Twitter-verse what your business is all about, so use them wisely!
Your Twitter bio should do three things:
1. Target your audience
2. Explain the value you offer
3. Answer the question "Why am I on Twitter?"
Keep your bio targeted, use keywords related to your niche and be as clear as possible.
Link
Twitter allows for a single link to be included in your profile, so make it count! If you have a Facebook page, a blog or a company website, put that in this field. Don't leave this area blank, as it's a great way to get Twitter followers to take action over on one of your other web properties.
Background
Lastly, you have the option to customize your Twitter background. I highly recommend you use Photoshop (or get a designer to do it for you) and create a custom background that is branded for your business. It should have the same color scheme as your logo or company colors and can include information such as your company website, a logo, any other Twitter account associated with your brand and basic company information.

For more information on how to properly size and position your Twitter background, please see this resource from Banyan Branch: http://bit.ly/Ib7lCf

Your Twitter Lingo Cheat Sheet
Twitter has some pretty unique terminology that you won't find anywhere else on the social web. Here's your Twitter cheat sheet so you can talk about hashtags and retweet with the best of them.
Direct Message (DM)—A private message sent via Twitter that only you and the recipient will see. The user you want to send a DM to must be following you.
Favorite—You can "Favorite" a tweet, which saves it in a folder to view later and lets the you know you liked the tweet.
Followers—Followers are the users who choose to follow your account. They will receive all of your public tweets in their timelines (other than any tweet that begins with the username of a specific account. See Reply). The number of Followers on your Twitter profile is the number of people directly receiving your tweets.
Following—The number of "Following" on your Twitter profile is the number of accounts you have chosen to follow. You will receive their public tweets in your home timeline.
Friends—Friends are users who are following you and who you are following back.
Hashtag—A hashtag marks topics or keywords in a tweet. It is demarcated by a # symbol: "#MadMen" is a very popular hashtag, for example. You can put a hashtag in front of any string of characters, without spaces, like this: "#ThisIsAHashtag." Hashtags are used to organize tweets and are searchable.
Lists—Lists are curated groups of Twitter users. Anyone can create a list and put any other user on it. They organize users into groups, using criteria such as specific industries, interests or topics of conversation.
Mention—A mention is a tweet that contains the username of any Twitter user somewhere in the body of the tweet (not directly at the beginning). The username must begin with the @ symbol, like this: "@username." Mentions are collected in the "Connect" page, and users who see that they are mentioned can respond to the original tweeter.
Reply—A reply must begin with the username of the account you wish to reply to, such as "@username." It will be sent to the recipient and will be seen by yourself, the recipient, and any accounts that follow both of you. It will also be visible on your profile page and on the "Connect" page of the account mentioned in the tweet.
Retweet (RT)—A retweet is a tweet that was originally sent by another account that has been passed on or forwarded. Retweets are a popular way to pass along information or comment on someone else's tweet.
Trending Topic—Twitter shows the top ten topics being discussed right now, determined by an algorithm.
Tweet—A tweet is the basic method of communication on Twitter. It must be 140 characters or fewer and can contain text as well as links to web pages and multimedia.
Unfollow—To unfollow someone is to choose to stop receiving their tweets in your timeline. You can still keep them on any lists you've created, and you will see their updates on that list's page.
The Five Things Most Businesses Get Wrong When Starting Out on Twitter
Some companies don't take the time to consider proper Twitter etiquette or strategy before they set up their account and start tweeting, and it lands them in hot water. Here are five mistakes businesses make on Twitter, so you can steer clear:
1. Following thousands of accounts randomly and hoping they'll follow you back. Why is this bad to do? If you follow accounts that are not targeted, those accounts will be unlikely to care about your tweets. You might get a large number of followers this way, but that's all they'll be: numbers on your "Following" list and nothing more. They won't retweet you, share your message or click over to your website. Plus, following a lot of accounts and only having a few followers is one way to make yourself look spammy—and scare away the real followers. Don't do this!
2. Sending out all of your tweets at one time or not tweeting often enough. If you tweet too often or too close together, you'll flood your followers' timelines and they'll probably unfollow you. Likewise, if you don't tweet often enough, you won't be offering value to your followers, and, you guessed it: they'll unfollow you. There is a happy medium of when and how often to tweet that we will discuss later in the book, so make sure you hit it.
3. Tweeting without focus. You need to stay on topic for the majority, although not necessarily all, of your tweets. If you're tweeting about flowers, social media tips, motorcycles and cooking dinner, your message will become muddled and your followers won't understand what your business is about.
4. Selling too hard. Nobody likes to listen to a sales pitch for hours on end, so why would someone follow you on Twitter if that's all you tweet? Being too sales-y is a big turnoff for most Twitter users. When you tweet, ask yourself whether what you're sending out there offers value to your followers.
5. Not engaging your audience. Too often businesses use Twitter as a billboard. They tweet, but they don't retweet, mention others or engage in conversation. Twitter is a social network, and in order to find success your business must engage with your followers.
Your #1 Key to Twitter Success: A Strategy
You have a monumental opportunity to brand yourself on Twitter. There are thousands of customers on Twitter right now just waiting to follow you, listen to your tweets, share your content and buy your product.
But in order to make the most of this opportunity, you've got to have a Twitter strategy.
A strategy should:
• Establish clear goals and objectives for using Twitter
• Identify your target audience and how they use Twitter
• Monitor your competitors' Twitter use
• Outline the tactics you're going to use to meet your goals
• Include an analytics strategy to measure your progress
Twitter shouldn't be an end in itself. It is a means to an end: a Twitter account can help you achieve your business' goals—such as more sales, word-of-mouth referrals, cheaper customer service or increased customer loyalty—but you've got to identify those goals and make a plan to achieve them if you want to see success.
Just having a high follower number is not a good Twitter goal. How does this number impact your bottom line? Your Twitter goals must be in harmony with your overall business goals. Those thousand followers are great, but they are really just a means to achieve a goal: they might help you get more clicks over to you website (which will translate to more sales and revenue), but they are not an end in themselves.
Every business has different goals. Is yours to sell a product? Get members to sign up for a service? By implementing a Twitter strategy that is oriented towards these goals and that can be measured to determine whether you're achieving them, your business can make money 140 characters at a time.
What Do I Tweet? Creating Your Content Strategy
On social media, content is king.
You need to consistently produce quality content on Twitter, or else your customers won't feel the need to follow you. In fact, to be successful on Twitter you should be tweeting several times a day.
Developing a content strategy should be one of the tactics you outline as part of your Twitter strategy. And you should have it in place well before you send your first tweet.
A Twitter content strategy has three main components:
1. What you are going to tweet
2. When you are going to tweet it
3. How often you are going to tweet
The "What" part of content creation can be a big stumbling block for many businesses on Twitter. Coming up with interesting, useful, clickable content multiple times a day is tough!
When determining what to tweet, consider your brand and your reason for being on Twitter. And remember to avoid being too sales-y. To this end for every one tweet about your company, you should tweet three other pieces of content that are non-promotional. You can even try tweeting one retweet and two other pieces of content to improve your engagement.
We'll discuss when and how often to tweet in the segment on Twitter scheduling below.

Here are 20 examples of things you can tweet to get your creative juices flowing: blog posts, news articles, YouTube videos, press releases, podcasts, tips, opinions, questions, polls, photos you've taken, images, infographics, favorite quotes, statistics, tools, product reviews, interviews, Twitter lists you find useful, your favorite new account, and coupons.

The Science of Social Timing: Scheduling Your Tweets When They'll Have the Most Impact
Do you feel a twinge of jealousy when you watch your competitors tweet all day, every day, and wish you could hire a full time tweeter to do just that for your brand?
Here's a little secret: they're not actually there, behind their computer or on their smartphone, the whole time they're tweeting.
They're using a technique called scheduling, and it's very easy—and effective—to use yourself.
Scheduling tweets gets you two major benefits:
1. Your Twitter account can be active even when you're away from the computer
2. Your tweets will be sent when people are there to actually read them
And there's data to back up Twitter scheduling, too. KISSmetrics (http://www.kissmetrics.com) analyzed when the highest percentage of people were listening on Twitter and found that scheduling tweets mid week, on the weekends, and around noon or 6pm ET got businesses better click-through-rates on the links they shared. And about six percent of all retweets occurred at exactly at 5pm ET.
If you time your tweets right, you can hit these sweet spots and get your message in front of more eyeballs.
Scheduling Benefit #1: Tweeting on Auto-Pilot.
I use the term auto-pilot here in a loose sense. The best Twitter accounts don't just buy some software that "writes" tweets for them and sends them out at intervals. Instead, they get someone—an actual, real, human being—to write the tweets; they just get the software to do the scheduling throughout the day.
To create a tweet schedule, you must first choose the software you'll use. I suggest looking at HootSuite (http://www.hootsuite.com) and Buffer (http://www.bufferapp.com) first. HootSuite is a Twitter dashboard which can not only schedule tweets for you, but also allows you to manage multiple social networks all from the same place. Buffer is simpler and focuses more on scheduling updates.
Whichever tool you choose, here are the steps to creating a tweet schedule:
Step 1: Write out a batch of "evergreen" tweets. These tweets should have content that will not expire over the next few days. For instance they should not point to a time-sensitive article, or contain information that will not be relevant a week from now. Think about tips, commentary, industry how-tos and multimedia.
Step 2: Copy each tweet individually into either HootSuite or Buffer. Note: Hootsuite allows you to upload batches of tweets using an Excel file, so you don't have to enter each one manually.
Step 3: Either manually select the time and day, in the future, that you want each tweet to be sent out, or use Buffer's algorithm to do this for you.
That's all there is to it!
I suggest interspersing your "evergreen," scheduled tweets in between your real-time tweets, so that your account isn't totally on auto-pilot. And don't forget to check in on a regular basis, to see who is mentioning and replying to you! Just because content is being pushed out on auto-pilot doesn't mean you can ignore Twitter from here on in.
Scheduling Benefit #2: Tweeting When People Are Listening.
One reason why so many tweets flop—i.e. they don't get retweets or clicks—is not because they were poorly written or failed to include a call-to-action. It's because they were sent at the wrong time.
Social timing is essential on Twitter because of its open, real-time nature. The openness means that anyone can follow anyone else, so your followers are probably following hundreds of accounts in addition to your own. And real-time means that if they're not online when you send a tweet, there's a good chance your followers won't see it, as it will be buried deep in their timelines below the more recent tweets from the other accounts they follow.
Buffer is a great tool for determining when your followers are online, so you can get the most mileage from each of your tweets. Timely (http://www.timely.is) also analyzes your followers' tweeting habits to determine when they're online.
Scheduling tweets is a habit of most Twitter pros out there. It can help amplify your business' message and improve your visibility, and using the (mostly free) tools available, any business can create a consistently active Twitter presence.
A Lesson in Finding the Right Accounts to Follow
Before we get to the age-old Twitter question of "How do I get more followers?" let's talk about finding the right accounts to follow.
Why Is It Important to Follow the Right Accounts?
Firstly, who you follow signals to your followers what industry you're in, what topics you're interested in and more. It is a representation of your brand's social connections.
Secondly, following industry leaders on Twitter can plug you in to the latest news in your niche. This is not only great stuff to retweet to your followers to show that your brand is also an industry leader, but it also can provide internal information for your company that can help you make business decisions in the future.
And thirdly, following the right accounts can lead you to potential brand ambassadors. These are the Twitter users who are primed to love your business—you've just got to reach out to them. If you follow customers, thought leaders and other related accounts, a few might decide to embrace your brand fully and start talking it up to his or her friends, family, colleagues and Twitter followers. They might even send referrals your way that turn into brand new customers.
How to Find the Right Accounts
You have several options when seeking out new and relevant accounts to follow.
You can use Twitter's own search engine at Twitter.com. Simply type keywords into the search bar at the top right of the screen, and you'll be shown tweets from accounts that are talking about that topic right now. You can click through to the profiles of these accounts and follow the ones that seem most relevant to your brand.
Once you've gotten the hang of this, you can go ahead and try Twitter's advanced search (http://search.twitter.com/advanced) to narrow down your keywords, search by location, by sentiment and more.
You can also try using Twitter directories, which list users in categories based on tags or keywords they're associated with. Listorious (http://www.listorious.com) and Just Tweet It (http://www.justtweetit.com) are two good ones to try. They have millions of Twitter accounts, sorted into groups that you can search through and browse.
There are also third-party search engines that work similarly to Twitter's search. These might show you accounts that Twitter's search engine missed. Check out Topsy (http://www.topsy.com) and Social Mention (http://www.socialmention.com) to explore real-time social search.
Why Getting More Followers Shouldn't Be Your Only Twitter Goal (But How to Do It Anyway)
Numbers don't mean anything on social media unless they promote an action.
Having a high number of followers doesn't mean you're a great tweeter. But it can help you achieve your business' goals on Twitter—if those followers are interested, engaged, active and if you put in the work to leverage them.
So if you've got 100 targeted followers that are interested in your business, share your content and click your links, you're better off than that business with 100,000 followers who don't read a single one of their tweets. It's true! Follower count is meaningless unless you can use it to move towards those goals you established as part of your Twitter strategy.

Note
Social media is in large part about the image you present to others. If you have a high number of followers, the perception that you're a pro tweeter might make others follow you, increasing your follower count even more. But the conversation that you'd have with those disengaged followers is probably not worth the effort you'd spend creating content and tweeting messages no one's listening to.

Fine, But How Do I Get More Followers?
OK, by now you're nodding your head and saying, "Sure, I get that the sheer number of followers I have is not the be-all-end-all of Twitter, but still... how do I get more?"
Getting more, targeted followers is hard. There's no beating around the bush. It takes effort, consistent content creation, monitoring and responding to your mentions, a firm understanding of the tools and the most valuable resource of all—your time.
But I guarantee if you consistently put out good content, find relevant accounts to follow, offer helpful responses and remain active, followers will start to pour in.
Twitter is called a social information network for a reason. The more quality information you share, the more others will vouch for your brand. They'll recommend you on Follow Friday tweets, they'll share your content, and they'll help grow your brand's presence on Twitter.

Follow Friday is a community-created Twitter event that occurs every Friday. Users recommend others using the hashtag #FollowFriday or simply #FF. It's all about sharing the love: if you find an account useful, funny, cool, or just interesting somehow, share it on Fridays—the karma points will come back to you tenfold.

By using the tips in this book, your Twitter account will be primed to attract new followers who are interested in your message. It takes everything in here, but once your Twitter strategy is in place, your Twitter account will grow.
Keyword Monitoring to Learn More About Your Customers Than Ever Before
Don Draper—of AMC's television series Mad Men—would have to pour himself a pretty stiff drink if I told him how much customer information is freely available through Twitter. He'd never need to hire another focus group again.
You might not have a big ad agency behind you, but that doesn't mean you can't use Twitter—free of charge!—to learn about your customers' likes, dislikes, demographics, purchasing habits and more. And knowing this information will let you give them what they want, meeting their needs on- and off-line.
Attached to every Twitter account is a wealth of information. And I'm not talking about what that person has filled out in their bio, although that's a good place to start. I'm talking about the information they share about their favorite TV shows, the last time they bought a latte and their frustration with their new smartphone.
Using simple keyword search methods, you can tap into this information and learn more about your customers than you ever thought possible. Here's how to do it:
Step 1: Create a list of keywords you'll monitor. I recommend starting with a list of between five to ten keywords. These can be anything from your brand name and products to see what people are saying about you, to industry-specific terms to words that people might use if they were searching for a product similar to yours.
Step 2: Use either Twitter.com's advanced search page or a third-party service such as Topsy or Social Mention and input those keywords.
Step 3: Save this search if you're using Twitter.com, and collect the data using your preferred data entry software.
Step 4: Analyze the data for sentiment, trends, demographics and more. If you're looking for free keyword analytics software, try Topsy Analytics (http://analytics.topsy.com/).
Step 5: Lather, rinse and repeat! It's important to maintain regular keyword monitoring of social channels like Twitter, as things happen quickly on the social web.
Keeping Tabs on the Competition... Without Them Knowing
While you're making that list of keywords to monitor, why not go ahead and add your competitors, too?
Twitter is a fantastic tool to keep tabs on what the competition is tweeting, what people are saying about them, what works (and what doesn't)—and you can do all of this without them knowing.
You have two basic options if you want to spy on the competition: creating keyword searches or creating Twitter lists.
Keyword Searches
To set up a keyword search for terms related to your competitor, you'll follow the same template as setting up a standard keyword search outlined in the previous section. The only difference is the keywords you choose.
You'll want to do some brainstorming and research here, as it's a good idea to put in all of your competitors business names, product names, slogans and even employee or executive names if they're active on Twitter.
Every time you go back to this saved search, you'll see what people are saying about the competition—you might even be able to jump in and offer a dissatisfied customer a deal if they switch over to you!
Twitter Lists
In conjunction with your keyword searches, I recommend creating Twitter lists that include the competition's Twitter accounts. You'll want to add not just their main corporate account, but the different brand accounts they may have, customer service accounts, individual employee and executive accounts.
When creating these lists, be sure to mark the "Private" box on the "Create a new list" page. This ensures that you are the only account to see these lists—they will not appear on your profile, in any searches or with a standalone URL. They'll be completely private.
Altogether, this should give you a great snapshot into what the competition is up to on Twitter, which can help you gain a competitive advantage for your business.
How to Participate in a Hashtag Chat: The Cocktail Party You Don't Want to Miss Out On
If you've been in business long enough, you understand the power of networking. The after-meeting drinks, an impromptu coffee or a monthly unconference—a lot of business can get done during these after-hours events.
Twitter has its own version of the casual networking event called hashtag chats.
A hashtag chat is a gathering of people on Twitter who share a common interest. They "meet" virtually at specific times, usually once a week, and discuss anything and everything related to a single topic

This public Google Doc includes information on all hashtag chats on Twitter, their schedules, next chats and more. Check it out! http://bit.ly/A7jbM5

Anyone can join any hashtag chat. To organize the conversation, participants are required to include a hashtag specific to that chat somewhere in their tweet, like this:
"This is my first hashtag chat, I'm so excited! #ToolsChat"
There are hashtag chats for everything from fitness to customer service to spirituality to entrepreneurship, and I bet there's one (or two or three) for your industry.
If you want to join a hashtag chat, all you have to do is be on Twitter at the time and day of the chat. Make note of the hashtag associated with the chat. Use a tool like TweetChat (http://www.tweetchat.com) to filter out any tweets that do not contain the hashtag for the chat, and jump right in!
If it seems a bit overwhelming at first—some chats get dozens of tweets a minute!—take your first chat as an opportunity to just listen and understand the flow of conversation. The following week introduce yourself and try sending a few messages. Over time you'll get the hang of it.
Hashtag chats are a fantastic way to find the influencers in your industry and to meet potential brand ambassadors. They're also a great information-exchange for up-to-date news, tools and tips.
How May I Help You? Using Twitter for Customer Service
If you're providing customer service already, you know that the best way to do it is to go where your customers are. And right now, they're on Twitter.
There are hundreds of thousands of product-, company-, brand- and service-related tweets sent each day—and there's a good chance a few of those are related to you.
If you're not there to answer your customers on Twitter, someone else might swoop in and take the opportunity, cutting you off from a potential lead or a happy customer with a single tweet.
To set yourself up for performing customer service on Twitter, you must first assess your resources. Can your business monitor Twitter for significant periods of time each week? People expect a response to their tweets within 24 hours, so if you can't spend a few minutes a day checking your mentions and replying to them all, don't offer customer service via Twitter.
However, if you can devote a little time every day, Twitter is a great tool to cut costs on other, more expensive customer service options like phone systems.
If you want an example of how to do customer service on Twitter right, take a look at the Comcast Cares Twitter account (@ComcastCares). This account answers questions, handles complaints and interacts with customers on a daily basis. It excels because it's always listening, and it has honest, transparent conversations with its followers in public.
Customer service on Twitter, if done right, can save you not only money on more expensive solutions, but it can also act as a powerful social proof for your brand. Twitter is a public forum, so if you help out a customer, your good deed is visible to all. That customer might retweet your helpful tweet, or he or she might recommend you publicly to his or her own followers. Your reputation and word-of-mouth marketing could skyrocket.
Conclusion
Despite its deceptively simple 140-character format, Twitter can pack a powerful punch in terms of marketing your business. It allows you to connect with your customers in a one-to-one relationship, offers unsurpassed raw data and provides real-time, measurable results.
Twitter is an important part of the strategies of some of the leading brands today, and you too can find tweet success by using the tools, tactics and tips in this book.
If you need any help, have questions about Twitter or just want to chat social media, I'd love to hear from you! You can email me at lauren@laurendugan.com or tweet to me (of course!) at @lauren_dugan.
Good luck tweeting!
An Appendix of Some of the Best (Free) Twitter Tools Out There
I mentioned a number of tools throughout this book that I think are some of the best out there for Twitter management and optimization. I've compiled them all here, as well as some others I didn't mention but I still think are great, so you can add them to your own Twitter marketing toolbox.
• Twitter dashboards
• HootSuite (http://www.hootsuite.com)
• Seesmic (http://www.seesmic.com)
• TweetDeck (http://www.tweetdeck.com)
• Real-time social search
• SocialMention (http://www.socialmention.com)
• Topsy (http://www.topsy.com)
• Topsy Analytics(http://analytics.topsy.com/)
• Analytics
• CrowdBooster (http://www.crowdbooster.com)
• SocialBro (http://www.socialbro.com)
• The Archivist (http://archivist.visitmix.com/)
• TweetStats (http://www.tweetstats.com)
• Honorable mentions (paid)
• HootSuite Pro Analytics (http://hootsuite.com/features/custom-analytics)
• Sprout Social (http://www.sproutsocial.com)
• Social timing
• Buffer (http://www.bufferapp.com)
• Timely (http://www.timely.is)
• Directories
• Listorious (http://www.listorious.com)
• Just Tweet It (http://www.justtweetit.com)
• For hashtag chats
• Google doc including all chats (http://bit.ly/A7jbM5)
• TweetChat (http://www.tweetchat.com)







Practical Social Marketing Tips to Make More Money


How to Build a Mobile Website
Create great sites that are clean and simple, load quickly, and are optimized to serve the needs of mobile users.
Jamie TurnerISBN: 978-0-13-312103-2$4.99


SEO & PPC: Better Together
Use search engine optimization (SEO) and pay-per-click (PPC) together to achieve better results than either can deliver alone.
Melanie MitchellISBN: 978-0-13-303880-4$5.99


How to Use Social Media Monitoring Tools
Your company needs to gain clear and substantial value from its social media investments. Getting results begins with monitoring.
Jamie TurnerISBN: 978-0-13-303765-4$4.99

www.ftpress.com/marketingshorts







How to Use Social Media Monitoring Tools
Jamie Turner







© 2012 by Pearson EducationPublished by Pearson Education, Inc.Publishing as FTPressUpper Saddle River, New Jersey 07458
Company and product names mentioned herein are the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, in any form or by any means, without permission in writing from the publisher.
ISBN-10: 0-13-303765-7ISBN-13: 978-0-13-303765-4
For more information, please contact us at info@ftpress.com







How to Use Social Media Monitoring Tools
If you're like a lot of people, you're probably already using social media in some way, shape, or form. You might have a Facebook page, and you probably have a Twitter account. You might even have a blog, a LinkedIn profile, and a Google + profile.
And, like so many people, you've been disciplined about posting updates and keeping your followers engaged with your brand. Sure, there might be a few times when you've fallen a bit behind, but overall, you've done a pretty good job of keeping your campaign active.
The problem you might have faced—and it's a problem many people face—is that you don't know where to go next. You don't really know how to take your social media program to a higher level.
Should you increase the number of posts you upload? Should you expand the number of social media channels you use? Or perhaps you should get more people in your company engaged with the program?
All of those are good options. Before you dive into any of those initiatives, many people find that learning how to use social media monitoring tools is the best next step. When used properly, these tools can do more than just give you a snapshot of who is talking about your product or service. Instead, they can help you monitor whether your social media campaigns are actually driving revenue for your business.
The Two Categories of Social Media Monitoring Tools
You can drop most social media monitoring tools into two different categories. The first category is Quantitative, and the second is Qualitative. What do we mean by that? Quantitative tools measure data like number of Twitter followers, number of Facebook fans, frequency of mentions on blogs, and other metrics that involve specific numbers. Qualitative tools measure the sentiment behind the comments. In other words, they provide you with insights into how your followers feel about your product or service.
By breaking the kinds of tools into these two categories—quantitative and qualitative—you are able to organize your program a little better and keep things streamlined. There are some tools that fall into both categories, but to keep things simple, I segment the tools into one category or the other.
There's another important concept I should review before I get into the specifics about social media monitoring. That's the concept of return on investment (ROI). All roads in social media should lead to ROI. After all, businesses don't do social media to be social—they do it to make money.
How Many People Does It Take to Manage a Social Media Campaign?
The answer depends on the size of your company, but for a small company, it takes at least 25% to 50% of a full-time employee's time to effectively run and manage a social media campaign. Larger companies, like Dell and Ford, have entire departments that run their social media programs.
To make money with social media, you need to become familiar with the concept of Customer Lifetime Value (CLV). In a slight oversimplification, CLV is the amount of revenue your average customer generates for your business during the time they're using your product or service. In other words, it's how much money you generate per customer during the time they buy your products or services.
I go into that in greater depth later, but for now, the three things to keep in mind are quantitative tools, qualitative tools, and customer lifetime value.
Questions to Ask Before You Begin Monitoring
The problem many people have with their social media programs is that they think about tactics before thinking about strategy. Typically, this means that they dive into setting up a Twitter account or a Facebook page without really giving any thought as to why they're doing that or what their objectives are.
You probably already have most of your social media channels set up, but it never hurts to ask yourself why you set them up in the first place. Were they for branding purposes only? Or were they intended to drive people to sign up for your e-newsletter? You might even have set them up to drive people to an e-commerce page on your site.
Now is a good time to take a step back and ask yourself: "What is our objective? What's the end result we want from our campaign?" Be sure you get very specific. For example, don't just say, "We want more customers," or "we want more revenue." Instead, say, "We want to generate 10,000 leads from new prospects over the next 12 months and convert 1% of those leads to customers during the same period."
Three of the terms you hear quite frequently are prospects, leads, and customers. A prospect is someone who has visited your website, and a lead is someone who has raised their hand (figuratively) and asked for more information from your company. In other words, a lead is someone who has downloaded a white paper from your website or filled out a "Contact Me" form. That's an indication that the lead is genuinely interested in you, your products, or your services.
The lead becomes a customer after they've bought a product or service from you. Sometimes, in low-consideration products, it's easy to convert a lead to a customer. But, in high-consideration products, the sales conversion process is much more complex and convoluted. For example, for expensive business-to-business (B2B) purchases, even though there might only be one person who approves the purchase, there might be several people who influence the decision-making process.
The good news is that social media can help you every step of the way—from the first visit, to the first request for information, and all the way through to the final sale.
There's one other thing you should do before I move forward. Now that you've thought through your objectives, you should write them down. Objectives have a way of getting lost in the shuffle when they're not written down, so be sure you put yours on paper. And make sure they follow the S.M.A.R.T. rule: Specific, Measurable, Actionable, Realistic, and Timebound. By being specific about your objectives and writing them down, they're more likely to be accomplished.
It's often said that things that are measured invariably improve, so be specific and measure your progress.
What Is Your Marketing Approach? Is it Branding? Or Direct Response?
As you're taking a deeper dive into the world of social media monitoring, it's important to understand the difference between a direct response campaign and a branding campaign. This is essential because you use your social media tools differently depending on whether you're on the branding side or the direct response side.
A brand is made up of the spoken and unspoken messages you receive about a product or service. When someone says "Volvo," most people respond by saying "safety." When someone says "Coca-Cola," people respond by saying things like "happiness," "classic," or "Santa Claus."
A branding campaign is a marketing program that's intended to build awareness and buzz about a product and service. When Snapple does a branding social media campaign, their primary intent is to make people feel good about their brand, so the next time customers see it in a store, they're more likely to pull it off the shelf.
At the other end of the spectrum are direct response campaigns. These are campaigns that are intended to drive sales directly via the web or the telephone. In the old days, direct response campaigns were hard-sells and included a lot of phrases like, "But wait! There's more!" But today, companies are using direct response in more tactful ways that not only do some branding, but also drive direct sales.
You can think of Geico and Dell as two of the best-known direct marketing campaigns. Both companies use some charm and sizzle in their advertising to attract your attention, but they both make it clear that they want you to visit their websites (or call) to buy their products right away.
Branding versus direct response isn't always black-and-white. There are plenty of companies that use both techniques as part of their campaigns. It's a good idea to decide early whether you lean toward the branding side of the equation or the direct response side of the equation. By thinking that through now, you are able to better manage your campaign in the future.
Internal and External Review of Social Media
Now that you've written down your S.M.A.R.T goals and figured out whether you're running a branding or a direct response campaign, it's a good time to look at your existing social media program and the programs of others.
By reviewing your existing program, you probably spot things that can be improved. You should keep track of those needed improvements, but just focus on improving things that can be done quickly. For example, you can quickly update the profile photo in your Twitter account or upload a new video to your YouTube channel.
The main thing you're trying to accomplish is fixing the few odds and ends that need to be fixed, but not getting bogged down on major overhauls. After all, the main task at hand is to set up your social media monitoring program. If you take too many steps back and start revamping your entire program, you'll never get to the task at hand—monitoring your program and measuring its effectiveness.
While you're busy reviewing your own social media program, it never hurts to see what your competitors are doing. This is an often overlooked technique that can save you a lot of time and money. If your competitors have done something new and innovative that works, then borrow the idea. There's no law against borrowing.
Likewise, if your competitors are doing something that doesn't work, then you know not to waste time or money doing the same thing. It's always good to see a mistake in a competitor's program because you can see what not to do.
Measuring the Quantitative Side of Your Social Media Campaign
As I discussed, measuring the quantitative side of your social media campaign is all about data. Essentially, what you're monitoring are the numeric values for different attributes.
This can be as simple as keeping track of the number of Twitter followers you have or analyzing how many Likes you have on your Facebook page. It can also include tracking the inbound links to your website, click-throughs to your blog posts, number of e-book downloads, responses to polls, contest entries, new e-newsletter subscribers, and even e-newsletter unsubscribers.
The data, and more importantly the trends, can give you a sense of your performance across many different platforms. Remember, it's important to watch and measure where things are headed. In most cases, you are either headed in a positive direction or a negative direction. It's very rare that you are in a holding pattern, but if you find yourself there, consider it a negative trend because it's usually what happens prior to going the wrong direction.
Later, I talk about some of the more robust tools you can use to monitor the quantitative data for your campaign, but it's always good to start with some of the more basic (yet still robust) tools.
If you haven't already set yourself up for Google Alerts, be sure to do so now. Google Alerts provides you with links to websites that mention any of the terms you include when you sign up. For example, if your company name is Warren's Wacky Widgets, then every time your company is mentioned on a website or in a blog, then Google notifies you.
When you sign up for Google Alerts, be sure to get notifications on your competitor's terms and industry terms. By keeping track of competitor's and industry alerts, you are poised to react to events on a real-time basis.
Another fabulous tool from Google is, of course, Google Analytics. By installing a simple line of code into your website, Google can track the traffic to your website and within your website. This amazingly powerful tool can help you measure quantitative metrics like unique visits, time on site, bounce rate, and other important information.
Quantitative Monitoring Tools
Okay, now that you're up-to-speed on Google Alerts and Google Analytics, what are some of the other tools you should explore? There are a lot of different tools, so I've selected the best of the best. It's important to note that some of the tools below track quantitative and qualitative information. For our purposes, I'm putting them here in the quantitative category.
• Spiral16: This monitoring tool scours the entire Web, not just social channels. Their findings are presented in a unique 3D Virtualization that allows you to quickly find the information that's relevant to you.
• Radian6: Their analysis dashboard allows you to listen, monitor, and report on conversations quickly and easily. Their search platform scours the social Web and delivers them to you in near real-time.
• Bit.ly: Most people know Bit.ly as a URL shortener, but it's actually more robust than that. You can use it to track your own links by simply adding a + to the end of any Bit.ly URL. This feature lets you view how many clicks you've received, top-referrers, and the location of the clicks.
• Visible Technologies: This monitoring tool provides you with a dashboard of analyzed data on what people are saying about your brand. It also helps companies delegate responsibilities and workflow.
• SWIX: The good thing about SWIX is that it goes beyond just measuring clicks and measures how much people are engaged with your social media content. SWIX shows your performance on over 70 different audience and engagement metrics.
Measuring the Qualitative Side of Your Social Media Campaign
As mentioned previously, qualitative monitoring tools are the tools you can use to measure the sentiment people have about your product or service. As good as Google Analytics is, it can only measure quantitative data, not qualitative data.
The great thing about qualitative information is that it gives you insights into the preferences of the people who are talking about your product or service. In other words, it provides a snapshot of how people feel about your brand.
Why is that important? Because people buy products for emotional reasons, and then rationalize their purchase with logic. They purchase items based on a gut feeling or a relationship with the brand, and then explain why they bought the product in logical, rational terms.
It's just the way humans work. We're funny that way.
When you monitor the qualitative data, you're monitoring the emotional component of your marketing campaign. Here's a great example: There's a big difference between the words inexpensive and cheap, right? If your brand is considered inexpensive, then people consider it something of value that doesn't cost a lot. But, if your brand is considered cheap, then people consider it something that has low value and isn't well made.
With qualitative monitoring tools, you are able to measure the emotional context that people are placing behind your brand. If 75% of the conversations you're monitoring are calling your product cheap and 25% are calling it inexpensive, that's some not-so-good news you should know about. On the other hand, if 75% are calling it inexpensive and 25% are calling it cheap, then you're in much better shape.
Top Five Qualitative Monitoring Tools
There are a lot of tools to explore on the qualitative side of the equation, too. Here are some of the most important ones to explore. As mentioned previously, some of these tools fall into both categories, but for our purposes, I am putting them into the qualitative category.
• PeopleBrowsr: This is a great tool if you're interested in finding out whether people have a positive or negative sentiment surrounding your brand name. It breaks down into nice segments, too, such as "Students" and "Bloggers."
• SocialMention: This is a tool that provides in-depth analysis about the positive, neutral, and negative sentiment around a brand. It even breaks the analysis down into categories like Strength, Passion, and Reach.
• BrandsEye: This takes a slightly different approach by letting you protect your online reputation. You can track and manage all your consumers' conversations online, and it's real-time reporting allows you to respond quickly.
• Heartbeat: This is a real-time social media monitoring and measurement tool that lets you measure key metrics around buzz and sentiment. You can engage with key influencers and opinion leaders and conduct comparisons between competitors and topics.
• Alterian: If you're ready to go in-depth with your social media monitoring services, then Alterian might be your ticket. It provides advanced user behavior statistics, demographics, location, positive or negative sentiment, and trending topics for your brand as seen across a host of social media outlets.
Calculating the ROI of Your Social Media Campaign
Okay, now that we've covered some of the more important tools you need to monitor your social media campaign, let's talk about how to measure the effectiveness of your campaign.
One of the most important formulas you need to know is CLV. As mentioned previously, CLV is the amount of revenue a customer brings to your company over the course of a lifetime with your brand.
For example, if a cable company knows a typical customer spends $80 per month and the average customer stays with the company for 3 years, then the CLV is $80 × 12 months × 3 years = $2,880.
When you know your CLV, you can figure out how much you want to invest to acquire a customer. This is called your Allowable Cost Per Sale. Many people use 10% of their CLV as a starting point for their Allowable Cost Per Sale. In the previous example, your CLV is $2,880 and 10% of your CLV is $288, which is your Allowable Cost Per Sale.
Okay, where do we go from there? Let's assume that the cable company relies exclusively on direct mail to acquire new customers. It's a bit of a stretch that any company would only use direct mail to acquire new customers, but for this example, let's assume that's the case. A typical response rate for a direct mail piece in the cable industry is 0.5%. It costs about $1.44 to create and mail a direct mail piece, and you have to send out 200 direct mail pieces to acquire a new customer.
Let's take a look at the math around that calculation:
Number of pieces sent: 200
Cost for printing and postage: $1.44
Total cost to send 200 pieces: $288
Response rate: 0.5%
Customers acquired:
200 pieces mailed x 0.5% response rate = 1 new customer
In this example, for every $288 spent, the cable company gets 1 new customer.
Now, let's go one step further. Let's say you're a cable company with many locations in many cities throughout the country. For this example, let's say you have a $2.8 million budget for your annual direct mail campaign. By using the math described previously, you know that every year, you'll gain about 10,000 new customers from your $2.8 million direct mail campaign.
Let's assume that you want to test the effectiveness of your social media campaign. To do that, you might slice off 10% of your $2.8 million direct mail budget and use it for a social media campaign. If you know that your $2.8 million direct mail campaign generates 10,000 new customers, then you also know that 10% of that (or $280,000) should generate about 1,000 new customers via direct mail.
That's an important number because it's a measuring stick for you. In other words, if you spend $288,000 on your social media campaign, it should generate 1,000 new customers a year for you. If it does, you're golden because you've figured out a new channel to drive prospects to your business.
What's next? Despite what a lot of people think, it actually takes money and labor to produce a social media campaign. After all, you have to produce YouTube videos, manage Facebook pages, monitor Google+ pages, and create email marketing campaigns. Then, if you expand into arenas like LinkedIn, SlideShare, Flickr, Foursquare, and other social media tools, there are even more expenses behind that.
In addition, you need to set up landing pages where future prospects can download white papers or buy your products.
Benchmarks for Conversion Rates
A conversion rate is the percentage of people who go from being prospects to being customers. In direct mail, about 0.5% to 1% of the people who receive a direct mail piece convert to customers. In email marketing, it's about 1% to 2%, and in paid search, it's about 1.5% to 3%.
Given all that, it's easy to see how quickly your $288,000 social media budget can be used by a social media program. But with a program like the one we discussed previously, it's realistic to assume that you'll generate 1,000 new customers each year. Better still, it might generate 1,100 new customers or even 1,200 new customers.
Remember, all roads in social media should lead to ROI. After all, businesses don't do social media to be social; they do social media to make money. It's important you understand that monitoring a social media program is only half the battle. The other half of the battle is understanding how social media drives leads to your business and what percentage of those leads turn into customers.
A Step-by-Step Guide to Setting Up, Launching, and Running a Social Media Monitoring Program
We have covered a lot, but we're missing one important component: a step-by-step guide to help you set-up, launch, and manage your social media monitoring campaign.
Here's a list of the steps you should take to start your social media monitoring program:
Step 1. Get Your House in Order: Take a look around at the things in your social media program that are easy fixes. Take care of the simple ones. You can come back to the time-consuming ones later, after you've patched-up a few weak spots in your program.
Step 2. Sign up for HootSuite, TweetDeck, CoTweet, NutshellMail, and/or SproutSocial: These are tools that help you manage multiple social media accounts. They're not really monitoring tools because these tools help you send outbound information.
Step 3. Calculate Your CLV: To understand if your social media campaign is effective, you have to be able to calculate the ROI of your program. The first step toward that is to have a handle on your CLV.
Step 4. Review Your Social Media Monitoring Tools: We've covered several different tools that you should be familiar with. They're all good in their own unique ways. Look at each of them and figure out which ones would be best for your business.
Step 5. Test Two Tools Against Each Other: Select two tools that you feel most comfortable with and take them for a test drive. It takes a few days to get comfortable with these tools, so you'll want to try them out before selecting which one is right for you.
Step 6. Launch Your Program: Now you're ready to flip the switch on your social media monitoring program, so go ahead and do so. Track and manage your program over the course of a few weeks before you go to Step 7.
Step 7. Calculate the Effectiveness of Your Program: To calculate the effectiveness of your program, you need to measure the traffic your social media is driving to your website. Hopefully, there's a place on the site for people to download a white paper, sign up for an e-newsletter, or buy your product/service. By tracking how many people you drove to your website and converted to customers, you can calculate your conversion rate. If 1 out of 100 prospects turn into customers, you're doing pretty well.
Step 8. Calculate Your ROI: Now that you know how many customers your social media program drove to your business, you can calculate your ROI. Using the previous cable company example, if the social media program cost $280,000 per year to run and they generated 1,000 new customers from the program, then their cost per sale was $280 per person. For their business, that's pretty good because they know that person will generate $2,800 over the next few years. (Please note: For some businesses, your CLV might be as low as $20. The cable company has a relatively high CLV.)
The Bottom Line: After you've calculated the ROI of your campaign, you can begin tweaking your campaign to improve your results. Throw out the things that aren't working, and put money toward the things that are working. Over the course of time, your social media monitoring program will begin showing better results. And, in the end, isn't that what we're all looking for?
If you follow the steps, you should start to see positive results quickly. Remember, each company is different, so don't be afraid to tweak things based on your particular industry. You should be able to monitor how well your social media program is working and calculate the effectiveness of it with a high degree of certainty.
Good luck!







Practical Social Marketing Tips to Make More Money

How to Make Money with Mobile Media
Why mobile media is right for your business—and quick, easy, low-cost ways to get started right now!
Jamie TurnerISBN: 978-0-13-257540-9$4.99

How to Make Money Marketing Your Business with foursquare
Discover foursquare social marketing—and achieve powerful bottom-line results with less than an hour's work per week.
Scott BishopISBN: 978-0-13-261539-6$4.99

How to Make Money Marketing Your Business with Tumblr
Tumblr: what it is, how it can extend your reach and deepen customer trust, and how to establish an effective Tumblr strategy for your company.
Scott BishopISBN: 978-0-13-273187-4$4.99
www.ftpress.com/marketingshorts







Unleash the Power of Paid Search
Melanie Mitchell







© 2012 by Pearson EducationPublished by Pearson Education, Inc.Publishing as FTPressUpper Saddle River, New Jersey 07458
Company and product names mentioned herein are the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, in any form or by any means, without permission in writing from the publisher.
ISBN-10: 0-13-303755-XISBN-13: 978-0-13-303755-5
For more information, please contact us at info@ftpress.com







Unleash the Power of Paid Search
Have you tried paid search before or are you considering it now for your business? Not convinced your audience is there? There are literally billions of searches that happen every day1, which you can leverage to create opportunities to make money and grow your business through a paid search program. However, it is not as simple as just showing up. The search landscape is rapidly growing and ever-changing, and according to Google, 20-25% of keywords used in searches have not been seen in the last 30 days2.
Paid search marketing has been a booming business since it began in 1997 when Goto.com introduced paid search marketing (acquired by Yahoo in 2003). Paid search marketing used to be much easier than it is today, where whoever had the highest bid on a keyword would get the #1 ranking in the paid search results. Fast forward to many years later and the landscape has become much more complex where you have to consider algorithms that give your ad a "quality score" in addition to the multiple platforms where you can manage search campaigns—such as mobile, tablets, video, traditional desktop computers and maps to name a few—where people conduct searches.
This e-book on paid search marketing will cover many of the best practices to manage your paid search programs to give you the knowledge and tools so that you can more effectively manage your campaigns.
What Is SEM, PPC & CPC?
Paid search marketing is the process of gaining traffic by purchasing ads on search engines. It is sometimes referred to as SEM (search engine marketing) or CPC (cost-per-click) or PPC (pay-per-click). Unlike some digital advertising where you pay for impressions (an impression is considered a page view), with PPC search, you only pay if your ad is clicked on.

In a search engine, the paid search ads are usually found at the top, bottom and/or right hand side of the search engine results page often denoted by "sponsored listings" or "ads".
What are the benefits of Paid Search Marketing?
Study after study has proven that people are less likely to click on paid search ads over the natural search, also called organic search, results. It will vary by industry and product, as well as intent of the user (informational searches vs. transactional searches), but there is qualified, targeted traffic to be captured through a paid search marketing campaign and there are many reasons why paid search marketing is smart to include in your marketing efforts. To name a few:
• Lead the Conversation: Stand out on the results page by showing first with the message and experience you decide for customers. With paid search, you control what keywords you are targeting, you control the copy of the ad and you control what landing page you are directing people to that click on your ad.
• Increase Coverage: Show on searches throughout the purchase funnel; be there when they think of you, and remind them when you may not be top of mind. As the search query gets more specific, so do the ads.
• Target and Measure Precisely: Accurately target customers with control features and monitor advertising effectiveness with robust reporting tools for increased ROI.
• Variety of Ad Types: Expand beyond text ads into multimedia ads, ads on a mobile device, ads that target tablets, image ads, ads in content (often called content targeting or contextual advertising) and more. Evaluate your audience to see what makes sense. Learn more here.
• Geo Targeting: Target your ads to specific cities, zip codes, states or countries that are relevant to you or your business. This can be a way to control costs and improve ROI as you are not spending money for clicks from users who are outside of your service area. Learn more here
With paid search marketing, you control the cost of what you are willing to pay since you control your bids so you are able to cap your budget if you wanted to do a test to see if paid search could work for you or your business. If you are new to paid search marketing, you may want to start with a small budget to see if it increases business and if the results meet or exceed campaign goals.
Before you create your search marketing campaign, you need to better understand your target audience. This starts with understanding what keywords they might type into the search engine to find information, product or service that you have to offer. Next, you would need to develop the relevant ad copy targeted to each keyword or keyword grouping to capture their attention then take them to a relevant landing page to lead them to the point of your defined success metric.
Sounds easy, right? Well, yes and no. Have you ever clicked on an ad and felt that you were completely lost once you got to the landing page? I have. I once did a search for "bird houses" as I wanted to buy one for my backyard and one of the top paid search ads returned to me was from a trusted, Fortune50 home improvement company promoting that they sold bird houses. I clicked on the search ad and was directed to their general home page that had nothing about bird houses and would force me to search through their site to find their bird house selection myself. So what did I do? I hit the back button and went somewhere else. Not only was that example a bad user experience, but that Fortune50 company still PAID for my click. They may make a lot of money in general, but that doesn't mean they need to waste it on poor search campaign management. Neither do you.
Let's take a better example. Let's say you go to Google and type "What do I want to learn?" You would expect that the paid search ads that appear would be relevant to your search query.

Once you click on the ad, you would expect the landing page to be relevant to your search and the ad copy. Remember that the ad copy should also set expectations for the searcher as to what to expect to see on the landing page. For example, if you are promoting a particular offer or product, then make sure it is on the page where you are directing your traffic. Otherwise you may end up in a situation where other people click on the "back button".
Example landing page from the above ad:

If you cannot connect these basics, it can lead to unnecessarily high costs to you as the advertiser because the ads are not targeted enough, you will likely frustrate potential consumers and you could possibly damage your brand.

There is a rigorous process to running a paid search campaign so if you do not see immediate results, do not assume paid search marketing does not work for you. There are many levers at your disposal that you can pull to tweak the campaign to see if you can improve performance, which we will get into in more detail in just a moment. Remember that while there are many tactics to enhance program performance, ultimately, relevance is king.
As previously mentioned, billions of searches are happening every day. The goals of any paid search marketing advertiser is to reach their target audience as they are actively searching for information, products or services that are relevant to what they have to offer. There are several reasons to consider a paid search campaign, such as you:
• Lead the conversation with your consumers
• Have control over likelihood of showing and what specifically shows
• Bring in your consumers to tell them about what is new and what else you have to offer
• Increase coverage targeted to connect with your users all along the research and purchase funnel
• Show on general keywords to get in front of users at the right times
• Can target precisely with the ability to measure the impact and optimize to improve performance
• Track your ROI to learn about your audience and their behavior
Once you have decided to move forward with paid search marketing, the next step is to set up your campaign in the search engine(s) and platform(s) you have chosen. There is also upfront research that needs to happen prior to launch to find relevant keywords your target audience is typing into the search engines. Post launch, there is ongoing rigor around campaign management, ROI tracking and optimization that will need to happen. In other words, you can't just set it and forget it.
Campaign management integrates the art and science of performance marketing to optimize digital actions that accelerate brand engagement, participation, leads and sales. These actions include components surrounding keyword discovery, account structure, ad copy, landing page selection, quality score and optimization.
The next section will provide information and best practices surrounding each of these components.
Where Do You Start?
Arguably the most important step for any successful paid search campaign is doing proper keyword research. Before you set up a paid search campaign, you should start with a planning phase that clearly defines the goals and success metrics of your search engine marketing efforts. Do you want to increase sales, get people to download a whitepaper, increase subscribers? The reason this is important is that there are different objectives to achieve these outcomes and you need to define these to ensure you are targeting the relevant keywords to reach that audience.
Once you have defined your goals and objectives, you can get started with your keyword research. As you conduct your research, you need to consider how much budget you are allocating to your paid search program, the potential search volume per keyword, the average CPC per keyword and the relevancy of the keyword to your campaign. Also, don't forget to research the competition! It is important to identify areas of opportunity and weaknesses within your competitive vertical in addition to understanding what tactics they are using to see what you can learn from them.
Selecting the appropriate keywords is an art and it is important to use keyword tools that give you insights into the search behavioral data. How you think about your product or service could be different than what people are typing into a search engine to find that information. Search terms can also vary across different search engines due to different audiences, thus it is recommended you use multiple tools to get a broader view of how people search across these different search engines.
To get you started, below are some of the more popular free keyword research tools online:
Google Adwords Keyword Tool—https://adwords.google.com/select/KeywordToolExternal
• Search for keyword ideas using any combination of keywords, post a URL to crawl the page (great for using your webpage or a relevant page on a competitor's website) to get keyword ideas and search through specific categories. You can also designate a location to conduct your research whether you want global volume, country specific volume and you can denote a specific language. This keyword tools gives you the option to choose to see volume potential for mobile specific searches as well as traditional desktop search.
Microsoft Advertising Intelligence—http://advertising.microsoft.com/small-business/adcenter-downloads/microsoft-advertising-intelligence
• This plugin provides keyword traffic stats from Bing/MSN searches that enables you to build out lists of suggested keywords and develop informed keyword strategies based on actual Bing and MSN query data. It can help you refine your bidding strategy based on pricing data for keyword-specific metrics such as clicks, impressions, position, click-through rate and cost per click.
SEO Book Keyword Tool—http://tools.seobook.com/keyword-tools/seobook/
• This tool is based off of Wordtracker and provides rough search volume across multiple search engines.
There are many more free as well as paid keyword research tools out there to use, but these will help you get started.
There are other ways to brainstorm keywords by using the following criteria:
• Review your landing page content that will be used in your paid search campaign and run these through the keyword tools
• Read through your product offering details to find potential keywords and run these through the keyword tools
• Check out trending searches or seasonality http://www.google.com/insights/search/ or http://www.google.com/trends/ to see what may be relevant to you and get an understanding where traffic might spike or dip
Brainstorm even more ideas using Google suggestions based on popular search queries:

Or Bing suggestions:

Or Yahoo suggestions:

Once you have a keyword list, it is highly recommended that you look at search terms that may have lower competition. For example, say that the phrase 'tshirt' has 30,000 searches and searches for 'blue long sleeve tshirt', 'mens golf tshirt', 'small fitted tshirt' each have 2,000 searches. You may determine that the generic term 'tshirt' has not only higher competition, but it is also expensive so it may be more efficient to focus on more specific ("long-tail") search terms. I have witnessed many search marketers, especially in the beginning, waste money targeting popular, high-volume keywords, while ignoring specific, highly targeted, lower-volume keywords because they originally assumed they were not as valuable.
That said, you can target competitive, high volume keywords, but you may find that not all of them are profitable. However, by effectively using the multiple optimization techniques in good campaign management and keeping up a disciplined approach to tracking ROI and mining your data, you can find a number of these competitive keywords to be profitable.
What are the Key Components of Search Campaign Management?
Campaign Management integrates the art and science of performance marketing to optimize digital actions that accelerate brand engagement, participation, leads and sales. Your approach to campaign management should combine the use of technology (e.g. tools and reporting) and applying the core key components to search campaign management to yield optimum results.
These key components include:
• Account Structure
• Keyword Match Types
• Quality Score Considerations
• Ad Copy Management
• Landing Page Optimization
• Monitoring and Optimizing
• Reporting
Account Structure
A well maintained account structure creates maximum results and is critical to the success of your campaign. This is a common misstep for search marketers especially in the beginning. Once you understand why you need a good account structure, it will begin to make sense as it can help you:
• Ensure alignment with marketing goals
• Enhance performance and provide efficiency
• Prevent less efficient keywords from dragging down "winners"
• Drive positive campaign performance
Each layer in the structure of a paid search marketing campaign allows you different controls to optimize that campaign, which is why it is critical that you take the time.
It is recommended that you set a goal to never have more than 10-15 keywords within an ad group to give you the maximum flexibility to control your account. With a well-structured account, you can laser focus on any item that may or may not be working in your campaign.
Account structure breakdown example:

Pull regular reports to look for themes and opportunities to further break out campaigns or ad groups. REMEMBER: Search queries are constantly changing whether it is behavior, seasonality or something in the news that may cause volume—and your costs—to shift.
Additional advice and best practices:
• Look for duplicates
• Prior to launch of campaign keywords must be de-duped against other similar campaigns that may be running to ensure your keyword is driving to the appropriate landing page and to avoid competing against yourself
• A simple excel vlookup function on campaign downloads is a easy way to check duplicates across campaigns
• Brand keywords and Trademarks should live in their own campaigns as these are typically highly targeted, low cost terms that you may optimize, budget and/or position differently than non-brand, general keywords
• Group high volume keywords into their own campaigns for easier budget management as these keywords will typically take up more of your budget. By separating out with their own daily/monthly, it doesn't take budget away from the rest of your campaign. That way, those keywords separate from the high volume/higher spend keywords have a chance to serve your campaign
• Create Ad Groups based on a common theme
• Create bid strategies based on performance
• Search campaigns in a desktop targeted account, content targeting and mobile search campaigns should all be in their own campaigns or accounts as the search keywords can be similar, but the intent of the search can be different (ex. searching for "Whirlpool refrigerator" on a desktop could be to check for specs or style while searching for "Whirlpool refrigerator" on a mobile phone could be to look for coupons or store location). By managing desktop, mobile and table search campaigns separately, you give yourself more control to better target and optimize those campaigns
• In many cases, keywords can be the same, but intent and/or performance is different thus it is important to not group them together as they can produce different results for the same keyword and/or positioning of the ad.
Keyword Match Types
One of the settings available in the search engines are match types and most engines offer three to four keyword match types. These match types determine which keyword searches trigger your ads to appear and in many ways can make or break your campaign. The reason why is that you can better control your costs if you know what you are doing or you can blow through your budget by appearing on irrelevant keywords. Be aware there are various symbols you need to put around your keywords in the campaign management interface so that it defines the match type.
Below is an explanation and illustration to better understand these match type options:
• Broad match: keyword (no symbol)
• Allows your ad to show on similar phrases and relevant variations. Keyword variations can include synonyms, singular/plural forms, relevant variants of your keywords, and phrases containing your keywords. For example, if you buy the keyword Tennis Shoes, you can also match into shoes for tennis and tennis sneakers. This match type is typically the most expensive as it casts a wide net.
• Phrase match: "keyword" (quotes around the keyword)
• Allows your ad to show for searches that match the exact phrase. For example, if you add the keyword "Tennis Shoes" on phrase match to your campaign, you can match into white tennis shoes and tennis shoes for women. Phrase match is not as expensive as broad match, but can still be costly and it is important to monitor performance carefully.
• Exact match: [keyword] (brackets around the keyword)
• Allows your ad to show for searches that match the exact keyword(s) exclusively. For example [Tennis Shoes] on exact match will only have a chance to appear when someone types in tennis shoes. This match type is typically the cheapest because it is so targeted. However, bidding on all exact match keywords can be limiting as you will only show up for that specific keyword (or keywords) in that specific order.

There is also:
• Broad match modifier: +keyword (currently Google only and the symbol uses a "+")
• Allows your keywords to have a greater reach than phrase match, and more control than broad match. Depending on the language, close variants will include misspellings, singular/plural forms, abbreviations and acronyms. Synonyms and related searches are not considered close variants
In addition to applying match types to broaden or restrict reach, it is important to include negative keywords to restrict an ad from appearing on undesirable variations. For example, when you bid on a keyword like 'shoes' (on broad match or phrase match) and you add the negative keyword-cheap (with a minus sign, indicating it is a negative keyword you do not want your campaign associated with) your ad will not appear for any searches that contain the words 'cheap' and 'shoes' in a search query.
It is strongly recommended that you review your campaign data on a regular basis, such as the information you find in a search query report (SQR), in order to understand what keywords people are actually typing in to the engine. Then determine if there are any irrelevant keywords where you do not want to appear and refine match types or add in keyword negatives. More on negative keywords here.
Remember that a low click through rate can have a negative impact on your Quality Score (more on that next), which can increase your costs or take your campaign offline. So if you find your ads are showing up under an irrelevant search query due to a broader match type, it is a good tactic to use negative keywords to restrict the campaign.
Best practices for match types:
• At Launch:
• Utilize all match types across your keywords at launch if your budget can afford it
NOTE: Broad match can be an outstanding way to figure out what keywords people are typing in the search engines to get to your paid search ad that you had not thought of or were not showing up in your initial keyword research. You will need to pull reports, such as the search query report (SQR), to see not only the specific keywords, but if they meet or beat the goals of your campaign. If these keywords meet the goals of the campaign, it is recommended you add these keywords directly, at more specific match types to not just be more specific, but to control your costs. Typically, the more specific the match type (e.g. phrase and exact match), the lower the CPC. This is mostly due to less search volume and less competition as your targeting is more specific (restricted) on phrase and exact match.
• Post Launch:
• As top performing keywords emerge, refine the match type on those keywords to improve relevance
• Pause keywords/match type that underperform
• SQR's should be pulled at least weekly
Also consider negative keyword placements:
• When setting negative keywords in your campaign, it is recommended they be set to exact match so you don't negatively impact your campaign with too much restriction
• SQR reports should be pulled weekly
Quality Score Considerations
I can't emphasize enough how important your account structure is as it is one of the biggest factors to help you control and improve your "Quality Score" (QS). The Quality Score is a strong signal of campaign quality based on performance (e.g. clicks on your ad vs. number of impressions those ads receive—overall click through rate, bounce rate from the landing page once the person clicks on your ad and hundreds of other factors in the algorithm—HINT: click through rate is one of the biggest factors).
Google defines their Quality Score as:
A Quality Score is calculated every time your keyword matches a search query—that is, every time your keyword has the potential to trigger an ad. Quality Score is used in several different ways, including:
• influencing your keywords' actual cost-per-clicks (CPCs)
• estimating the first page bids that you see in your account
• determining if a keyword is eligible to enter the ad auction that occurs when a user enters a search query
• affecting how high your ad will be ranked
In general, the higher your Quality Score, the lower your costs and the better your ad position.
Quality Score helps ensure that only the most relevant ads appear to users on Google and the Google Network. The AdWords system works best for everybody—advertisers, users, publishers, and Google when the ads we display match our users' needs as closely as possible. Relevant ads tend to earn more clicks, appear in a higher position, and bring you the most success.3
Quality Score was new to Bing in December 2011, and here is what they have to say about it:
AdCenter now offers historical quality score data in its daily reports. Better yet, the data is not limited to just the aggregate quality score; you can also get the historical data for each element of the score. You can track:
• Historic Quality Score
• Historic Keyword Relevance
• Historic Landing Page Relevance
• Historic Landing Page User Experience
With this data you can more easily see these key factors impacting your ad performance.4
Poor QS on one or two keywords can drag down an entire "ad group" by penalizing it and all of the keywords, not just the one or few with low quality score, in that ad group with increased costs. If you have keywords that have a low QS, it is recommended you remove them from their current ad group to conduct tests to see if you can improve performance and not inadvertently penalize the other keywords that would otherwise be performing well.
Ad Copy Management
Ad copy is important because it delivers that crucial first impression that influences a searcher's decision to click on your ad and/or visit your site. When it comes to paid search marketing ad copy, you want to make sure you are being as relevant as possible to the keywords that you are going to associate to your ad, which is why keyword research is the most important first step in a paid search marketing campaign.
As a best practice, and if it works within the character limits of the ad copy, use that keyword query within the title and/or body of the ad as testing has shown that this increases click through rate as it reinforces relevance of the search query the person typed in tied directly to the copy shown in the ad. You can easily do this through Dynamic Keyword Insertion or DKI. However, there are a number of areas to consider with DKI where you may want to be cautious how you use it (e.g. keyword misspellings, awkward phrase order of keywords).
Keywords queries can be long—There are limited amounts of characters to the title of a search ad so if some types in "women's tennis shoes that are comfortable for running" it will not fit. In this instance you lose the value of dynamic keyword insertion, and are running your generic replacement for all of your ads that may not be relevant, which could waste your money.
The good and the bad of what DKI can deliver:

Can you spot the missed targeting opportunity?
In the end, the more targeted and specific your ad copy, the better results should be in terms of click-through rate (CTR) and conversions.
Ad Copy Development Best Practices:
• First letter of each word should be capitalized as it typically increases CTR
• Ensure the brand is present & utilize a strong call to action
• Utilize keywords as a subdirectory in the Display URL (i.e. www.companyname.com/Keyword)
• 3-5 pieces of ad copy should run within each ad group to test message resonance, best to stay closer to 3
• Keyword(s) should align with the search query and the ad copy messaging should align with the landing pages
• Use Dynamic Keyword Insertion (DKI), but be careful!
Ad Copy Settings:
• Campaigns where CTR is important "auto optimize" ad copy where the setting will automatically optimize the ad copy that has the highest click through rate.
• Where on-site conversion or a performance metric is the campaign objective, use ad copy rotation in order to identify the best performing ad copy based on campaign goals as a higher click through rate does not necessarily equate to a high conversion/performance rate.
Landing Page Optimization
Landing pages should be reviewed on a regular basis (at least quarterly) to ensure keywords are matching to the correct destination.
Landing page testing is crucial to understand campaign performance; there are two testing methodologies to utilize:
• A/B is typically used to test concepts like page design
• Multivariate testing (MVT) is used to improve performance within an existing design
At the very least, you should be mapping your keywords, copy and landing pages to the most relevant place. Keep in mind, if your keywords are relevant, your ad copy is compelling, and your landing page is not, you can waste a lot of money.
For any effective paid search campaign, having relevant landing pages tied back to the keywords and ad copy can make all the difference. Landing page Quality Scores are becoming more important and if you have poor QS you can run the risk of your campaigns being turned off.
Best practices for landing pages should be utilized:
• Clear call to action
• Appropriate landing page load time (can affect Quality Score!)
• Association with the search query
• Easy to navigate
Monitoring and Optimizing
Paid search marketing is a living, breathing ecosystem and as previously mentioned, you cannot just set it and forget it. Keyword and ad relevance can change over time so there are several recommended reports you should pull, tactics you should employ, and campaign monitoring and optimization techniques you should conduct on a regular bases. Examples of these are listed below:
Daily Pacing Report Goals
• Identify daily, weekly, and monthly budget pacing needs. Take appropriate action when you identify key trends
• Analyze week/week and month/month performance data
Monthly Search Audit Goals
• Continue to bucket keywords into targeted adgroups based on performance data. The goal is to be targeted and relevant in addition to profitable
• Re-evaluate performance every month
• Identify key performance trends and make appropriate changes to the campaign
Promotional calendars and project plans open up opportunity for intelligent investments
• Forecast budget increases in conjunction with any media/promotional events. You can use tools such as Google's Adwords keyword tool to get estimates of traffic and cost down to the keyword level. It is recommended you conduct your research on the "exact match" setting and remember that these are only estimates and can be used to give you directional information.
• Identifies opportunities to increase performance and engagement outside of search arena (ex: PR that might cause people to search for more information)
• Allows for proper budget allocation
Key questions and considerations:
Keyword Monitor
• Are your keywords in the appropriate campaigns/bid strategy
• Identify keywords that are high volume and expand to long tail to reduce cost
• Pause/delete poor performing keywords
• Match type/negative terms
• Are keywords consistent across engine?
• Quality Score management
• What is your share of voice (SOV or impression share)? Can if profitably increase?
Bid Monitor
• Do you have brand VS general non-brand bid strategies? Brand terms tend to be more targeted and cheaper thus require a different strategy than general non-branded keywords.
• Monitor any bid rules, are they appropriate/working?
• Are budgets capping out, how are you pacing?
• Direct search engine targeting (e.g. google.com) vs. content targeting bids
• Mobile vs. Desktop vs. Tablet bids
• Match Type CPCs
Bid Strategy
• Utilize data driven decisions
• Daily monitoring of both external and proprietary reports with vital account metrics
• Leverage industry expertise
• Anticipate program changes based on seasonality, engine evolution and market updates
• Don't forget human intervention
• Establish/update strategies and algorithm parameters based on ROI goals and budgets
Ad Copy Monitor
• 3-5 ads per ad group
• Customize ads by campaign/ad groups
• Ongoing creative tests
• Remove poor performing copy based on performance metrics (e.g. bounce rate, conversion, high value task completion rate) not just based on click through rate (CTR)
• Use of Dynamic Keyword Insertion (where appropriate)
Landing Page Monitor
• Is there a better/deeper/more specific landing page that you could target?
• Check for dead links
• How is the landing page load time?
• Ensure a clear connection between landing page content, keyword and ad copy
Budget Monitor
• Does your daily budget fit within your total monthly forecasted amount?
• Does the budget amount work within your efficiency goals?
• Should dollars be allocated to a better performing engine?
Reporting
Prior to launching your campaign, you should have clearly defined the goals and success metrics of your search engine marketing efforts during the planning phase. You should have also determined those objectives to reach those goals. Just because a keyword and/or an ad group has a high click-through-rate (CTR) does not mean it is performing well thus the reason it is also important to measure against those defined goals and success metrics that happen once someone reaches your landing page.
It is important to look at pre-click metrics, but more important to look at post-click metrics as a high CTR does not necessarily translate to a successful paid search campaign.
Pre-Click (creating demand)
• Systematically address paid search improvement opportunities by evaluating keyword and adcopy alignment
• If you are running other marketing promotions, try to integrate your search program with the timing of these other initiatives. Banner advertising, email, print advertising and other marketing can drive people to search for more information so make it your goal to be there to capture that demand you may create
Post-Click (converting demand)
• Improve user experience to ensure increased consumer engagement. Do this by evaluating bounce rate, time on site, performance metrics (conversions or whatever you define as success)
• Continually test to optimize landing pages and critical paths tied to performance data
Final thoughts
Now that you have a better understanding of how paid search works along with the tools and tactics to more effectively manage a campaign, you should keep several things in mind as well as continually ask yourself:
• Are you leading the conversation with interested customers?
• Are you covering all the searches you should?
• Search for your brand. Who are you sharing search real estate with? Make sure you are in good position on relevant searches.
• Trying to rebrand? New product launch? Are your organic results enough?
• Go beyond branded terms, and look at the generic terms that you are interested in, how do you rank? Remember the importance of staying in your customers' mind.
• Think outside the box of how a customer could start their purchase process. Sometimes they start with a question that you could answer so do your keyword research pre/post launch and pull those search query reports post launch.
• Do you target your messages to best appeal to your audience?
• Are you getting a low or high CTR for your paid search ads?
• Once they get to your landing page, are they bouncing out immediately?
• Double check your most common search words. Are organic results compelling and sending users to the ideal page?
• Compare the metrics outlined in this e-book to what you are getting from your site? Do you get the same level of insight?
• Are you monitoring and optimizing all aspects of your campaign on a regular basis?
A well managed paid search campaign can help you grow your business, but as shown throughout this e-book, there are many different considerations, tactics and monitoring that must happen in order to make it work for you. Search marketing is highly targeted in nature as you are focusing on people actively searching for information, but remember that it takes ongoing diligence to run a successful paid search campaign.
• You can never just set it and forget it.
Endnotes
1 http://www.google.com/insidesearch/underthehood.html
2 http://www.google.com/insidesearch/underthehood.html
3 http://support.google.com/adwords/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=10215
4 http://community.microsoftadvertising.com/blogs/advertiser/archive/2011/12/13/your-quality-score-get-the-whole-picture.aspx







Practical Social Marketing Tips to Make More Money

How to Use Social Media Monitoring Tools
A fast-paced primer on social media monitoring and realistic, low-cost methods for getting started.
Jamie TurnerISBN: 978-0-13-303765-4$4.99

How to Make Money with Social Media Optimization
Master "SMO": the strategic use of social media engagement to supercharge brands, extend reach, and drive profits.
R. Scott CorbettISBN: 978-0-13-269869-6$4.99

How to Make Money with Mobile Marketing 2D Codes
25 great ways to use 2D codes to grow your business and differentiate yourself from competitors—plus a practical plan for getting started.
Jamie TurnerISBN: 978-0-13-273199-7$4.99
www.ftpress.com/marketingshorts







Understanding SEO
Building a Foundation for Long Term Success
Melanie Mitchell









Vice President, Publisher: Tim MooreAssociate Publisher and Director of Marketing: Amy Neidlinger

© 2012 by Pearson EducationPublished by Pearson Education, Inc.Publishing as FTPressUpper Saddle River, New Jersey 07458
Company and product names mentioned herein are the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, in any form or by any means, without permission in writing from the publisher.
ISBN-10: 0-13-303759-2ISBN-13: 978-0-13-303759-3
For more information, please contact us at info@ftpress.com







Introduction
Search Engine Optimization, often referred to as SEO, is the art and science that improves the visibility of a web site or a web page in search engines via the "natural," "unpaid," "organic, or "algorithmic" search results.
Example of a typical Search Engine Results Page (SERP) that denotes paid and organic search:

SEO considers what people search for, the actual search terms or keywords typed into search engines, how search engines work, and which search engines are preferred by their targeted audience. There are no guarantees with SEO, but businesses cannot ignore the power of search engine marketing if they are going to effectively compete on the web.
SEO takes discipline, planning, and research before getting started. SEO is not one of those tasks done once because it requires ongoing monitoring and optimization as the algorithms are constantly changing how they evaluate web sites and display what ranks to the end user. Not to mention your competition wants improve their SEO results, and any changes you make to your site or contact could impact your performance in an organic search.
In the search space, you don't necessarily need to create demand because the demand is already out there. The most qualified prospects have already "raised their hands" through their search behavior by actively looking for information. The reality is that there are more than 1 billion searches a day from people looking for information; however, search habits continue to change with Google reporting that 16% of the search queries it sees every day are searches it has not previously seen.1
SEO can be a powerful Internet marketing strategy for any person or business with an online presence. In the "2011 State of the Digital Marketing Report" published by Webmarketing123 in November 2011,2 the report stated that the most important objective for B2B companies was to generate leads (46.4%); and for B2C, the most important objective was to generate sales (39.9%).

Both B2B and B2C respondents indicated that the digital marketing tactic that has the biggest impact on lead generation was SEO with B2B indicating it was almost 60%.3

It is also interesting to see that across different-sized companies that SEO is one of the top strategies in which companies invest time and budget, which makes sense considering the impact it has on leads and sales.4

With SEO, there are a number of considerations when optimizing a web site, which may involve editing web site content, HTML, and associated coding to both increase its relevance to specific keywords (referred to as on-page SEO) and remove barriers to the indexing activities of search engines (referred to as in-page SEO).
Search engines continue to evolve and update their algorithms (these contain 100s of factors that evaluate web results to determine what should rank for a search query and in what order) over time to return the most relevant results to the end user. In fact, Google changes its algorithm 500 to 600 times a year5 with most changes being minor tweaks, but it does have a couple major algorithm updates that can have a significant impact on a site's organic search visibility. This is why it is important to understand where you should focus your time and efforts for long-term gain because time is clearly better spent on a more balanced SEO approach than to try to game the system with spam tactics.
When you break it down, the attributes considered "quality" by a search engine are fairly obvious:
• The page is relevant to the keyword(s) being searched for.
• The page has good, useful content.
• The page is considered an authority about its topic.
• The page doesn't have a bunch of broken links.
• The page loads quickly.
Overall, these tactics take more time to understand, and we will cover those in more detail later.
The benefits of a good SEO strategy is that it can lead to increasing the number of qualified visitors to a web site by capturing those people demonstrating intent for, or interest in, related information and improving online brand recognition.
Where Do You Start?
The most important step for any successful SEO effort is conducting thorough keyword research. Before you start optimizing content or building new content, you always start with your planning phase that clearly defines the goals and success metrics of your SEO efforts. Do you want to increase sales, get people to download a whitepaper, and/or increase subscribers? The reason this is important is that there are different objectives to achieve these outcomes, and you should define these upfront to ensure you target the relevant keywords to reach that audience.
After you define your goals and objectives, you can start with your keyword research. As you conduct your research, you should take into consideration the popularity of the keyword phrases you are targeting and the likelihood you will rank well (ideally page one) based on the current competition and the relevancy of the keyword to your content.
You should also research the competition to identify areas of opportunity and weaknesses within your competitive vertical and understand what tactics are used to see what you can learn from them. If your goal is to try to get to page 1, remember that your web site or web page must be considered a better result than what is currently showing up on page 1.
Selecting the appropriate and relevant keywords is an art, and you should ideally use multiple keyword tools that give you insights into the search behavioral data. How you think about your product or service could be different than what people type into a search engine to find that information. Search queries can also vary across different search engines due to different audiences; thus by using multiple tools you can get a broader view of how people search across these different search engines.
To start, the following are some of the more popular free keyword research tools online:
Google Adwords Keyword Tool—https://adwords.google.com/select/KeywordToolExternal
• Search for keyword ideas using any combination of keywords, post a URL to crawl the page (great for using your web site or a relevant page on a competitor's web site) to get keyword ideas, and search through specific categories. You can also designate a location to conduct your research whether you want global volume and country specific volume, and you can denote a specific language. This keyword tool gives you the option to choose to see volume potential for mobile specific searches and traditional desktop searches.
Microsoft Advertising Intelligence—http://advertising.microsoft.com/small-business/adcenter-downloads/microsoft-advertising-intelligence
• This plugin provides keyword traffic stats from Bing/MSN searches that enable you to build out lists of suggested keywords and develop informed keyword strategies based on actual Bing and MSN query data. It can help you refine your content strategy based on keyword-specific metrics such as clicks, impressions, and estimated click-through rates.
SEO Book Keyword Tool—http://tools.seobook.com/keyword-tools/seobook/
• This tool is based off of Wordtracker and provides rough search volume across multiple search engines.
There are many more free and paid keyword research tools available, but these can help you start.
There are other ways to brainstorm keywords by using the following criteria:
• If you have product offerings, read through those details to find potential keywords and run these through the keyword tools.
• Check out trending searches or seasonality http://www.google.com/insights/search/ or http://www.google.com/trends/ to see what may be relevant to you and to get an understanding of where traffic might spike or dip.
Brainstorm even more ideas using Google suggestions based on popular search queries

Or Bing suggestions

Or Yahoo suggestions.

Once you have a keyword list, it is highly recommended that you look at what search terms have the least competition. For example, say that the phrase "scented candle" has 49,500 searches a month, and searches for "scented candles wholesale," "scented candle making," and "discount scented candles" each have 1,000 searches a month. You may determine that the generic term "scented candle" has too much competition, so it may be more efficient to focus on more-specific ("long-tail") search terms in the short term to reach your target audience.
Many search marketers, especially in the beginning, waste time targeting popular, high-volume keywords, while ignoring specific, highly targeted, lower-volume keywords because they originally assumed they were not as valuable. In most cases, it takes longer to even see initial results due to the focus on highly competitive areas.
You may want to create a grid to better focus your efforts, such as the following simplistic example:

Based on what you find, you may want to prioritize your time and consider the "low-hanging fruit" in the low-competition, high-volume bucket to either optimize existing content to target those keywords or create new content relevant to your products, services, and audience if you don't have relevant web pages to optimize to those target terms.
Measuring Success
As you start to gain more traffic, it is important to understand the return on investment (ROI) of that traffic. Simply getting people to your site is not enough. Are they engaging with you as you want and buying your products or services?
To maximize your time and quantify your efforts, you should have an analytics package in place and defined metrics to measure ROI to help you monitor and focus on where to refine and optimize. With SEO, because algorithms are in a state of constant change, you don't want to react to all fluctuations, and you are looking for either dramatic drops in metrics or longer-term trends.
Keyword rankings used to be a primary measure, but rankings alone cannot be taken as a true reflection of your online presence. There two main reasons for this:
• Search results continue to be more personalized through web history and geographic locations; thus you may see search results that someone else may not see because these results can be customized based on geography or past search history.
• For example, if you conduct a search for "pizza" with your location set to Buffalo, NY, you are more likely to see local listings for pizza places in and around Buffalo, NY in your search results. A person searching for "pizza" with their location set to New York City; will receive a different set of search results that will include local listings for pizza places in and around NYC.
• If the keywords you are ranking for, even if they have a traffic high volume to your site, do not send you traffic that is hitting your goals or defined success metrics, they should not matter as much to you as lower volume, high ROI keywords.
Beyond keyword ranking, some of the more basic areas to measure are traffic (keyword referrals) coming from non-branded search terms, percentage of overall traffic coming from search engines, user engagement metrics, indexation metrics, and backlink metrics. Depending on your goals (sell product, watch a video, sign up for a newsletter, and so on) you will likely want to set up one or more success metrics to track conversions important to your business to focus your optimization efforts as you evaluate your data over time.
Below are these recommended areas of measurement broken out into more detail:
Monitor Non-Branded Search Traffic
This can help you understand what generic, non-branded keywords drive traffic to your site. There are different points in the customers' journey in which people may not know who they want to buy from or engage with yet, but they just know what they want. This is an opportunity to get in front of them as they are in that consideration or research phase to create awareness and engage with them in different ways to establish your product or service with them.
For example, if someone is in the market for a new car, he/she may start their search with "best fuel efficient cars" or "best new cars 2013". Considering the goals of your company, the role of your site, and following a competitive analysis, would it be worth optimizing or building content focused on these non-branded search phrases?
Traffic Percentage from Search Engines
All advertising costs money and/or time. Paid advertising, including paid search, can drive additional traffic to your site. However, much of that additional traffic can stop when you stop your paid advertising as you are no longer getting as much visibility.
With a strong organic search presence, your business can lower its customer acquisition cost, but you should also evaluate your site referral traffic each month to see if the percentage of traffic from organic search is increasing, decreasing, or staying the same. Increased traffic does not automatically equal improvement because performance can ultimately go beyond evaluating an increase in traffic from organic search. Thus it is important to understand the quality of that traffic with more detailed measurement.
For example, when visitors get to your site, are they sticking around or are visitors bouncing out (immediately leaving)? If visitors are bouncing out, that could be a sign that (1) you may not be targeting the right keyword(s) for your target audience or (2) there is a problem with the landing page, which would require further investigation.
Therefore, there is a need to dig in to the importance of understanding user engagement metrics.
User Engagement Metrics
High rankings have the potential to increase traffic to your web site; however, if a user bounces out (gets to your site and immediately leaves) this could have a potential negative impact on your SEO rankings. Ultimately, the search engines want to deliver high-quality results to their users, so if they detect a web site or web page that receives a lot of clicks, but then people soon return to the search engine results pages, that web site or web page could potentially see a loss of rank.
Other metrics to consider measuring, depending on your goals, in addition to bounce rate are average time on the web site and page views per visitor. These metrics can help deepen your understanding about the quality of the users you attract and if they are doing what you want them to do when they get to your web site.
Indexation Metrics
This is an important step because if you do not have presence in a search engine's index, it does not matter how well you have optimized your site. A quick way to check if your site has been indexed, and to get a rough estimate of how many pages are in the index, is to go to the search box in a search engine and type site:www.example.com where the "example.com" would be your domain name and the Site indicates to the search engine you are trying to find all of the pages it has in its index tied to the particular domain name. These results are an estimate and not exact, but it can help you understand if the search engine has a large share of your pages in its index.
For example, if you know you have 2,000 web pages and only 15 are indexed, you may want to look into any technical (in-page) barriers such as incorrectly implemented robots.txt or temporary (302) redirects (more details on both in the "Components of an SEO Strategy" section).
Backlink Metrics
With SEO, you hear a lot about backlinks, sometimes referred to as external links, and these are links that are directed toward your web site from another web site or web page with a different domain name. A quick way to check how many backlinks your web site has is to go to the search box and type link:www.example.com where the "example.com" would be your domain name and the Link indicates to the search engine you want to find the different web pages or web sites linking back to you.
Backlinks are important for SEO because some search engines give more credit to web sites that have a number of quality backlinks and consider those web sites more relevant than others in their results pages, thus impacting their search rank for a particular search query. It is not enough just to have a large number of inbound backlinks, but more important they need to be quality backlinks.
For example, if you have a site that sells scented candles, a link from a financial services site would not be as valuable as a link from a home decorator site because of the relevancy of a home decorator site to scented candles.
The other piece is to understand the web site's PageRank (PR). PageRank is a ranking by the search engine Google with the ranking from 0 to 10—10 being the highest. Ranking displays on the Google Toolbar; although, it should be used as directional as there is typically a several month lag time. PR is calculated using an algorithm that takes into account the number and quality of incoming links to a site. The higher a web site's PageRank, the more powerful the backlink from it can be.
Components of an SEO Strategy
Good, successful SEO is not impossible, but it is not easy. Otherwise, it would be easy for you to be on page 1 for all your relevant search queries. It is ill advised to try to find an easy way to trick the search engines to improve rankings because they are constantly updating and changing their algorithms to fight spam. Thus what you find may work today, may not work tomorrow.
The best approach for long-term success is to try a balanced approach to SEO. This involves creating content for users and not search engines. This does take time and effort, but by providing unique and relevant content you can give users a reason to visit your site first and hopefully share or link back to your web site creating more backlinks. Trust that rankings will follow by building good, unique, quality pages for your visitors.
The components of SEO should reinforce your keyword themes and help search engines understand what topics your site considers most important and should rank for. We can categorize SEO components into three tactical buckets: on-page optimization, in-page optimization, and off-page optimization. Now let's dive into more details in each of these buckets.
On-Page Optimization
On-page optimization refers to factors that have an effect on your web site or web page listing in natural search results. Simply put, it is the production of search engine friendly content using the text, tags, links and other elements you have direct control over. If you want to increase visibility in the search results for your targeted search terms, it is essential to consider on-page SEO from the outset.
Of course the search engine crawler cannot actually understand the content so they are looking for indicators of its relevancy. This involves looking at the content of the title tags, the header tags, the image ALT tags, the links and their anchor text amongst other elements.
For example, if the page is about "Scented Candle Coupons" then the search engine crawlers that visit the page need to be clear that this page is relevant to the keyword "Scented Candle Coupons" and should therefore be considered for display in the search engine results pages when that term is searched for. At the same time it is important to remember that the content must be valuable to visitors so they don't just bounce back out. Therefore, don't make the mistake of over overstuffing the targeted keyword(s) on the page where it does not make sense to try to gain relevance.
Now let's review how you go about optimizing several of these key areas in more detail.
Title Tag
Definition: The Title Tag is the most important element for SEO that you can control, and it carries the most "weight" because it titles what the page is about. It should contain the primary keywords and one or two secondary keywords that you are targeting on that page.
Example Code (target term "Scented Candle Coupons"):
<html>
<head>
<title> Scented Candle Coupon Codes: Printable Coupons from Example.com </title>
<meta name="description=" content="Find and share scented candles coupon codes and scented candles promo codes at thousands of online stores.">
</head>
<body>
In addition, the title tags show up in search results that are larger and bolded in a blue link, such as the following example.

Options
• Try to keep the Title Tag to 75 characters, including spaces and all punctuation.
• The Title Tag should describe what the page is about and should be consistent with other content on that page.
• It is ideal to create unique Title Tags for each page. For larger sites (1,000+ pages), consider automation through your content management system (CMS). It is important to understand the value of the pages you are optimizing compared with the time spent to optimize, which is where monitoring comes in.
• If seeking customers or clients in a specific geographical region, consider having the keywords reflect that geographical specificity. The more targeted you get, the less competition and the more relevant the traffic (for example, if you are a real estate agent in Washington, DC—consider targeting "real estate agent in Washington DC" versus "real estate agent").
• With Title Tags, consider moving the company or web site name to the end of the tag, on the far right, as in the previous scented candle example. The Title Tag is a unique tag where the search engines typically put more weight on the keywords that are found further left. See previous "scented candle coupon" SERP image for an example.
Meta Description
Definition: A Meta Description Tag should describe only what the page's visible content addresses. Try to keep it to two distinct sentences, and include primary keyword targets and benefits if possible.
Example Code (target term "Scented Candle Coupons"):
<html>
<head>
<title> Scented Candle Coupon Codes: Printable Coupons from Example.com </title>
<meta name="description=" content="Find and share scented candles coupon codes and scented candles promo codes at thousands of online stores.">
</head>
<body>
Remember that while the Meta Description carries little if any weight to help with SEO, a number of search engines may return the Meta Description Tag in the organic results, such as the following example. Because you are including the targeted terms, this can increase relevancy and click through rate as the searcher sees the targeted term in multiple areas.

Options
• The Meta Description should be organized in a logical sentence incorporating your targeted keywords for that page (each page should be its own theme).
• The Meta Description Tag should be between 150 to 250 characters, including spaces and all punctuation. Although a longer description won't hurt a page, it's less likely the search engines will crawl beyond this character limit range, and any keywords included at the end could be ignored.
• It is ideal to create unique Meta Descriptions for each page, or at least your upper-tier category pages for larger web sites, to provide more context. Without a Meta Description Tag, the search engine crawlers will grab snippets from the page to include in the search result, but these snippets aren't necessarily meaningful nor do they form a logical sentence.
Image Optimization
Definition: With the change in the search engine results pages where they sometimes return images in the regular results and with the increased use of "image search" to find information, you should consider optimizing your image assets on your page to help with the overall keyword theme you are targeting in your SEO efforts. Image search offers yet another avenue for bringing users into your web site. Optimizing these images can also help the keyword relevance of the page, help the image rank, and increase the ability to be found by more users. Search engines rely on the image filename, the nearby text, and the image ALT tags for indexing and ranking as a search engine crawler cannot "see" images.
Options: The key is to make the image ALT tags descriptive and keyword rich. In addition, it is recommended you change the filename of the image to reflect the descriptive nature of the image in relation to the page.

Image names for the lavender scented candle product can be
• Bad—782396.jpg (no target keywords)
• OK—Candle.jpg (too generic)
• Better—Lavender-Scented-Candle.jpg (targeted keywords in image filename)
Ideal "ALT text" for the image would also be "Lavender Scented Candle" to reinforce the targeted keyword theme assuming that is what you would want to target based on keyword research and the theme of the page.
• Another consideration could be to consolidate your images into a single directory (for example, example.com/images/) rather than having them spread out across multiple directories. This simplifies the path to your images for the web crawler and can make it easier for you to manage images in your SEO efforts.
Anchor Text Optimization
Definition: The anchor text is the visible, clickable text in a hyperlink and is placed within the anchor tag <a href="..."></a>. This text tells search engine crawlers something about the page you're linking to, and the keywords contained in the anchor text assist in contributing to the keyword relevance for that web page..
The following example tells the search engine crawler that the page that is being linked to is about lavender scented candles.

Internal linking has three main benefits for SEO:
1. It makes pages accessible to search engine crawlers as the way they find content is by crawling the web and following links. Visible, crawlable, internal links help search engine crawlers discover your content, thus contribute to building a presence in search engines.
2. Increases keyword relevance. Try to avoid using "Click Here", "Learn More" as the only text in your links as it is a wasted opportunity to use that space in a generic, untargeted way. Keywords in HTML links carry a heavier weight than HTML text because the search engine assumes that there is a page that exists about the keywords that are in the link. By using the targeted keywords such as "Lavender Scented Candle" over "Buy Now" in the internal link, you are strengthening the keyword theme focused on your targeted core search term. This does not mean that you shouldn't have a call to action on the page, but targeted, keyword centric internal links are a proven way to increase keyword rank in the SERPs.
3. Helps build the internal link popularity of the important pages on the web site. This is another reason why it is necessary to use relevant keywords in links rather than "Click Here". For example, the links Hot Holiday Gift Candles versus Hot Holiday Gift Candles—See Full List
If you don't care to rank for the search terms "See Full List" then don't waste the link opportunity!
Options
• Create links within the site that point to related pages.
• Links should have relevant, targeted keyword-centric anchor text.
• Implement a channel specific site map to help crawlers find pages and reinforce link popularity.
Consider submitting an XML site map to the search engines to help them find your pages. (You can find more information here, as well as information on how to create a XML site map.)
SEO Copywriting
To a search engine crawler, the content on the page does not have any real meaning as the crawler is trying to analyze the words in an attempt to determine what each page is about. If a web page covers too many different topics the crawler cannot determine what the web page is truly trying to say as the web page is trying to be too many things. In the case of a category page, this may be fine as you are not focused on optimizing individual products on that page, but it is important to think about the content from a search engine crawlers perspective as well as a visitor.
In general, SEO is about developing keyword themes. We previously discussed that importance for title tags, meta descriptions, images and anchor text. The same is true for the copy on the actual web page.
SEO copywriting is not about the number of times a keyword is used, but the focus of the content of each web page. The search engines have become smarter over the years and have, to some degree, started to penalize sites for "over optimizing". Thus the focus should not be on using a targeted keyword or phrase over and over to hit a particular number (otherwise known as "keyword stuffing").
It is a fine balance because if you use the targeted keyword phrase too little, you may rank for the keyword or phrase, but your web page may not be seen as relevant thus you end up with less than desirable rankings.
SEO copywriting is where the "art" of SEO comes in as you should write as much or as little text targeting the keyword or phrase as needed in order to make the point you need for your visitors. In other words, write for humans and don't over focus on search engines.
Remember that search engines are also looking for original content so if you are just reproducing content that already exists, even if keyword-rich, you may not rank well.
Essentially, there are four basic rules of thumb to writing web site content that is appealing to both visitors and the search engines.
1. Think of your user before the search engines
Your visitors should come first as these are the potential people that would buy from you, provide you feedback, rate your company or share your information with others. The search engines are only crawling your code "behind the scenes" and evaluating what they see based on an algorithm. If you write original, compelling content, people will want to share that information and in some cases link to you, which can help your overall SEO efforts (more on this in the "Off-Page Optimization section").
Over the years, there have been ways to artificially inflate rankings and visibility through keyword stuffing by over optimizing content and while that may have short term gains, any positive long term results are rare. There are a couple of reasons for this: (a) the search engines continue to update their algorithms to attack evolving spam techniques and (b) this type of over optimization is rarely appealing to visitors. Thus you could turn people away from your site for good.
2. Write enough content
Only you can know how much content is enough content for your web site, but there should be enough content to get your point across. This can be done in a variety of ways through thought leadership pieces or product reviews or other commentary. This is where it is important to evaluate your target audience and understand the buying cycle. For example, if your target is B2B, it may take your target audience several months to finally make a purchase. Ask yourself, what types on information would they be interested in to help lead them towards that purchase (from you)? If your target is B2C or if you are an informational site, you should be asking similar questions to better understand what information your target audience would find appealing as well as the length of time to get them to a conversion.
3. Develop keyword themes per page
For each web page where you want to engage with your target audience, you should be targeting specific keyword phrases per page. If you are trying to work in too many phrases or phrases that don't quite fit, consider breaking these out to be on their own web pages. This includes content that may speak to different kinds of visitors such as articles, tutorials or reviews.
4. Avoid images or graphics in text
As mentioned in the images section, search engines cannot read graphics or images unless you provide additional information such as alt text or a keyword rich file name. However, crawlable, visible, HTML text carries more value with the search engine as you are showing the text on the page, so it is assumed it must be what the page is about. Thus it is a best practice to keep your core web page text outside of graphics if that text is important to the theme of the overall web page.
SEO copywriting is not much different than standard copywriting. It is focused on creating good content that appeals to site visitors, but also follows the above criteria so that the search engine crawler can better understand what the web page is about.
In-Page Optimization
In-page optimization refers to search engine accessibility best practices, which are often included within technical requirements, technical optimization, or wireframes. These factors are more technical in nature and can be tied more to elements that could prohibit a search engine crawler from reaching your web site, along with elements that define page structure. Examples of in-page optimization are evaluating test-to-code ratio, any redirects, site structure, and header links.
Code Recommendations
The code of every page should be as parsimonious as possible. Search engines reward sites for simplicity of code and accessibility of the relevant text. Another factor impacting ranking to consider is page load time. While page load time and site speed were introduced in 2010 as a factor impacting SEO, it is important to keep in mind that these elements do not carry as much weight as creating relevant, keyword themed pages.
That said, a lot of JavaScript code at the top of a page may prohibit the search engine crawler from reaching the relevant content. JavaScript could be referenced externally, but if it cannot, consider rearranging the HTML code so that the body copy appears before the navigation to help optimize performance within the search properties. Having the code at the top pushes the rich content down the page where the crawler can find it later, if it finds it at all.
A table "fake out" has been implemented successfully by other sites.

An example of externally referenced JavaScript follows:
<script language="JavaScript"src="includes/pagetop_home.js"></script>
Robots.txt File
Another issue affecting in-page SEO, comes from an improper or poorly implemented robots.txt file.
Definition: Search engines look in your root domain for a special file named robots.txt (http://www.robotstxt.org/robotstxt.html). The file tells the search engine crawler (robot or bot) the files that the search engine crawler may crawl and download. This system is called The Robots Exclusion Standard.
Examples follow:

Implication: If implemented incorrectly this file could partially or fully block all search engine crawlers from your site. You must understand and manage exactly what you want and don't want to be crawled and update your robots.txt file accordingly.
Options: The robots.txt file can be used to tell all crawlers to crawl your site, or it can exclude specific crawlers (for example, Googlebot-Mobile, which is Google's mobile crawler) or all crawlers from the areas of the site that you do not want indexed in the major search engine indexes. A good free robots.txt file generator can be found here.
Site Security
Definition: Secure pages are those encrypted URLs beginning with https.
(Potential) Problem: Secure pages cannot be accessed by search engine crawlers. Secure areas of the site are necessary in some cases (for example, shopping cart checkout or after customer login), but the home pages and a significant number of content pages should be nonsecure so that they may be crawled and indexed if you are trying to increase traffic from organic search.
Permanent Redirects (301)/Temporary Redirects (302)
A web page or web site redirect is a way to send users or search engine crawlers to a different URL from a web page or web site that has been moved. It is important to distinguish if this is a permanent or temporary move as this could impact SEO visibility and traffic.
Definition: 301 Redirect—Indicates that the requested web page or web site has been assigned a new permanent URL, and any future references to the page should use the new URL. This also signals to the search engine crawler to replace the original page it had in its search index with the newly designated page.
Definition: 302 Redirect—Indicates that a web page or web site has been temporarily moved, but could change again, so the search engine should continue to index and display the old (current) URL and NOT replace with the page in its search index where it is being redirected.
Implication: If you meant to permanently move a page, but use a 302 temporary redirect, the search engines will not put much importance on the final destination page because it will think it is only a "temporary" change. In addition, the link popularity (backlinks) from the former page cannot transfer over with the temporary redirect, and you could see a drop in visibility and/or traffic.
Options: If you permanently move a page, make sure you use the 301 redirect to let the crawler know the page is permanently moved and should be replaced in the search engine index with the newly designated page you are directing the crawler to.
A couple of examples that spell out the redirect process in more detail, to help you determine what redirect would work best for you can be found here and here.
Heading <h> Tags
Definition: Heading <h> tags are used to present structure on the page to users. There are six sizes of heading tags, beginning with <h1>, which is the most important down to <h6>, the least important. However, it is most often recommended that you use <h1> and <h2> with an occasional <h3> where absolutely necessary. The further down you go, the less "weight" and importance it carries to the search engine algorithm.
If that much specificity is needed where you feel you need to break the page down to <h6>, consider creating multiple pages instead to better target important keyword themes.
Consideration: <h> tags should define a major section or subject, and you shouldn't avoid placing keywords in the tags that would not help define the overall keyword theme of the page. These <h> tags should ideally be in HTML rather than an image because a crawler cannot read an image.
Options: Use heading tags where it makes sense, and consider what the main points or main points/subpoints of the page will be to help you decide where to use these tags.
Sample Code
</head>
<body>
<h1> Candle Accessories </h1> ← Indicates the most important heading tag on the page
<h2> Candle Jar Holders </h2> ← Indicates the second most important heading on the page
<p> Treat yourself or a friend to our popular candle jar holders that are sure to be a one of a kind favorite. These jar holders have been a popular product of our clients for many years and come in a variety of popular colors and styles.
</p> ← This paragraph supports the <h2> tag
Site Structure
Definition: Your site directory structure organizes your web site's content to help let search engines know what is the more important content on the site. As a result, it is important to be mindful of the structure and directory depth.
Implication: Web pages can lose critical organic search importance the deeper they are in the site. In addition, if you have duplicate pages on different parts of the site, you can compete against yourself and end up hurting potential organic search rankings because the crawler may not know which page to put importance on.

Options: The site should ideally look like more of a balanced pyramid. Avoid having deep nesting of subdirectories such as .../dir1/dir2/dir3/dir4/dir5/dir6/page.html. If you have deep content, consider moving content up in the hierarchy after evaluating if the content provides value to your goals.
Broken Links and 404 Trapping
Definition: A 404 error message is automatically served when a URL that has been requested cannot be found. This may be because the web page or web site has been moved or removed.
Implications: Broken and dead links interfere with and, in many cases, block search engine crawlers from indexing those pages on a web site. Search engines may penalize a web site with a high number of broken links by preventing them from showing up in top results.
Options: Best Practice #1—Remove or resolve all broken links on the site. Run regular link checks on the site to see where broken links may have popped up since the last check. You can find several free link checker tools here.
Best Practice #2—Build and implement a custom 404 error page to be served when a user or search engine crawler encounters a broken URL. This error page should serve the standard 404 "Page Not Found" code and should provide links back to the home page or site map. This not only helps keep search engine crawlers on your site, but it also helps users with a better experience if they inadvertently click a broken link.
The following is a sample custom 404 error page.

No Follow Tag
Definition: The rel attribute of a link to "nofollow" is a code to let the search engines know that when a particular hyperlink is crawled, the search engine crawler should not affect the ranking of the web site in the search engine.
This may be useful to add to your web site if you have a public commenting forum, so if people commenting in the results post links regardless of their relevance, they receive no SEO value from your site.
The following is an example of comment spam.

Implication: If you are not using the "no follow" code, you could inadvertently pass your site's value (PageRank) to a spammy site if a link is posted on your web site or a web page linking to another location. Besides using "no follow" in the comment areas of a web site, there are other cases where you may not want to use the "no follow" code, such as linking to internal pages that don't need PageRank (e.g. your privacy policy or contact us page). It is in a site owner's best interest to evaluate where and if it makes sense to implement.
Off-Page Optimization
Off-page optimization refers to factors that have an effect on your web site or web page listing in natural search results that you cannot directly control, unlike on-page or in-page optimization, which is more under your control. Examples of off-page optimization include link popularity and page rank.
Link popularity, in this case referring to backlinks, is an important factor in determining natural search engine rankings. The theory is that if a web page links to another web page with a different domain name, the receiving page must be important and therefore deserves to be listed higher in the search results for relevant searches. As previously mentioned, the key factor is that quality links are better than the quantity of links. As a result, a web page or web site with 10 links to it can be better off than one with thousands of links.
The most common buckets for link building (increasing backlinks) are social media link strategies, link campaigning, and link reclamation.
Some of the basic benefits and drawbacks of each are as follows:

There are also Directory Submissions (for example, submitting to dmoz.org), but these have become less useful and less popular over the years due to decreased value by the search engine algorithms.
There are a number of different ways you can build out useful content for your target audience that can increase links to your site. It can take time, but it can make a difference in your organic search visibility. By design, the search engine algorithms use factors to rank pages that are out of a site owner's control, which is why it can be important to have interesting, compelling and original content to entice other to link to it.
A few ideas to increase backlinks to your site:
Curate Content: This is an opportunity for you to create value by bringing together relevant content in one place. Take the "scented candles" example. Related searches indicate people might also be interested in "romantic scented candles", "homemade scented candles", and "scented pillar candles".
The following is from a search on Google.com (located at the bottom of the page).

These subjects brought together in one place could be useful for your intended audience, but obviously it depends on your vertical and site goals.
The point is, you don't necessarily need to create something new to make it linkworthy, and your audience may respond more if you can curate content to tell a more cohesive story. It takes research, and you are the expert in your space, but it could be worth your time to evaluate the opportunity.
Guest Posting: For any site owner or blog, it can be challenging to create new content on a regular basis that appeals to your audience. Do you know the relevant blogs in your vertical? Try contacting them about writing a guest post for their web site. This could be a great way to not only create awareness for your company, but also showcase your expertise and get links and/or traffic to your site.
Interviews: Every vertical has "stars" in their industry. These don't have to be a Martha Stewart for design or a James Carville for politics.
For example, in the SEO and social media industry, we have people such as Danny Sullivan, Rand Fishkin, Chris Brogan, and Scott Monty. If you interview thought leaders in your industry that have their own web site or blog, they are likely to mention that interview and possibly link back to you. Capturing the attention of a thought leaders' audience could prove to be valuable to you and create more links.
Leverage Original Research: Original research can create links because people want to tell a story tied to facts. In the search industry, many people look to a company such as comScore that creates industry statistics that they can then take the data and talk about what it means, trends, and why people should care. Is there original research in your vertical that you can take and write about so that your audience can understand the implications of these trends? It may be worth the time to research the reliable sources available in your vertical to see if there are opportunities.
Press Release Optimization: If you submit your press releases through PRWeb or PRNewswire, there are ways to search engine optimize them for distribution. These sites help you include productive links, align your business with critical keywords, and drive traffic to your web site. In addition, you have the chance to show up in news searches for a period of time that could potentially attract bloggers or others who are interested in what you have to say. One of the important steps is to target the right keywords in those press releases to match with what people are searching for that is relevant to what you have to talk about.
Produce Videos: Online video views continue to increase with 43.5 billion videos viewed by 182 million users in the United States in December 2011.6 This is not atypical for the United States as video usage continues to grow around the world. You should research if producing video could help showcase your product (how to use your product and highlighting unique features) or service, teach your audience something, provide some other value, and so on. You can use similar tactics for SEO to optimize video, but also consider transcribing the video for increased keyword targeting to reach your audience. A video can be useful because you can tell a story in a way that connects with people, thus increasing the possibility of links.
Research Your Brand/Product: This is one of the most overlooked, fairly easy tactics. Search for your product or brand in the search engines to see if there are any sites that have mentioned your product or brand without actually linking through. If yes, and if it is a positive mention, contact them through their site or try to find out how to reach them by looking up their domain information on whois.com to see if they can turn that text in to a link. Because they have already talked about you, it is more likely they would be willing to link to you from that post/article.
Write a Beginners Guide: In every vertical there are people just starting out and trying to learn more as quickly as possible without having to pull from many different sources. If you are an expert in your area (e.g. accounting, real estate, or gardening) what tips or resources can you share that could help someone new? This doesn't just get people to read your content, but there are plenty of people that will link to that type of content to share with their audience from their web site or social network ("+1" in Google—which can affect Google rankings or share on Facebook—which can affect Bing rankings or share on Twitter, which can reach others that may not have found the content otherwise, etc).
Conclusion
It should be clear that if you have a presence on the web, you cannot ignore the power of search. Search is the #2 activity on the web following email7 and that trend isn't likely to change soon.

By optimizing your web site and assets (such as content, images, press releases, and videos), you increase your chances of reaching your target audience.
The benefits of good SEO is increased visibility, targeting relevant traffic, measuring results over time and ideally increasing ROI through regular refinement. A goal should be for you to regularly evaluate your data, specifically your key metrics, to quantify your SEO efforts and make changes accordingly to continue to grow your business. As mentioned in the beginning, there are more than 1 billion searches a day from people looking for information and search habits continue to change with Google reporting that 16% of the search queries it sees every day are searches it has not previously seen.
Search Engine Optimization isn't impossible, but it does take work, time, and ongoing education. The landscape and algorithms are constantly changing as the web, technology, and users continue to advance. However, SEO can be a powerful Internet marketing strategy to drive qualified traffic to your web site from different sources, and there is no time like the present to start.
Endnotes
1 http://www.google.com/ads/answers/numbers.html
2 http://www.webmarketing123.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/Webmarketing123_Digital-Marketing-Report_2011.pdf
3 http://www.webmarketing123.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/Webmarketing123_Digital-Marketing-Report_2011.pdf
4 http://www.webmarketing123.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/Webmarketing123_Digital-Marketing-Report_2011.pdf
5 http://www.seomoz.org/google-algorithm-change
6 http://www.comscore.com/Press_Events/Press_Releases/2012/1/comScore_Releases_December_2011_U.S._Online_Video_Rankings
7 Source: The Pew Research Center's Internet & American Life Project, April 29-May 30, 2010.







Practical Social Marketing Tips to Make More Money


How to Use Social Media Monitoring Tools
A fast-paced primer on social media monitoring and realistic, lowcost methods for getting started.
Jamie TurnerISBN: 978-0-13-303765-4$4.99


How to Make Money with Social Media Optimization
Master "SMO": the strategic use of social media engagement to supercharge brands, extend reach, and drive profits.
R. Scott CorbettISBN: 978-0-13-269869-6$4.99


Unleash the Power of Paid Search
Paid search will help you drive more clickthroughs, convert more prospects into sales, and earn more profits!
Melanie MitchellISBN: 978-0-13-303755-5$5.99
















