




















 




  



title
:
The College Survival Instruction Book


author
:
Mott, Steve.; Lutz, Susan


publisher
:
Delmar Thomson Learning


isbn10 | asin
:
1564142485


print isbn13
:
9781564142481


ebook isbn13
:
9780585202006


language
:
English


subject
 
College student orientation--United States.


publication date
:
1996


lcc
:
LB2343.32.M68 1996eb


ddc
:
378.1/98


subject
:
College student orientation--United States.














Page 1




The College Survival Instruction Book








By Steve Mott and Susan Lutz








CAREER PRESS
3 Tice Road-P.O. Box 687
Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417
1-800-CAREER-1
201-848-0310 (NJ and outside U.S.)
FAX: 201-848-1727






 












Page 2




Copyright (c) 1996 by Steve Mott and Susan Lutz








All rights reserved under the Pan-American and International Copyright Conventions. This book 
may not be reproduced, in whole or in part, in any form or by any means electronic or mechanical, 
including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system now known 
or hereafter invented, without written permission from the publisher, The Career Press.








THE COLLEGE SURVIVAL INSTRUCTION BOOK ISBN 1-56414-248-5, $6.99
Cover design by Dean Johnson Design, Inc. Cover photo (c) FPG International Corp. 
Printed in the U.S.A. by Book-mart Press








To order this title by mail, please include price as noted above, $2.50 handling per order, 
and $1.00 for each book ordered. Send to: Career Press, Inc., 3 Tice Road, P.O. Box 687, Franklin
 Lakes, NJ 07417. Or call toll-free 1-800-CAREER-1 (NJ and Canada: 201-848-0310) to order 
using VISA or MasterCard, or for further information on books from Career Press.








Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data








Mott, Steve, 1961-
The college survival instruction book/ by Steve Mott and Susan
Lutz.
p.  cm.
ISBN 1-56414-248-5 (paper)
1. College student orientation-United States.  I. Lutz, Susan,
1964- . II Title.
LB2343.32.M68 1996
378.1'98-dc20                                            96-20939
                                                                           CIP






 












Page 3




To Lola and Blue

















Special thanks to Randy Cobb, Jackie Brown, Bill Bonekemper of Demand Printing, Joseph-Beth Booksellers, Jack York, David Lockard, Frank Lark, Laurie Rosen Marcus, Jeff Herman, and to the many others who offered ideas and support.






 












Page 5




Contents









Introduction








7








Getting started








11








The art of college








21








About the authors








127






 












Page 7













Introduction















 












Page 8




College is a special time in any person's life. Where else can you study philosophy in the morning, play mud football in the afternoon, attend a jazz recital in the evening and dance on the furniture at midnight? In terms of opportunities per square foot, a college campus just can't be beat.








College also represents a challenging transition. Going to college means a new address, new friends, new relationships with family members, new responsibilities, new knowledge and new freedom. It is a period of simultaneous confusion, excitement and growth.






 












Page 9




This book provides suggestions and ideas for all areas of college life-academics, dorm life, extracurricular activi people, social life, the arts and family.








We've also included a "Getting started" section that foc on preparing for and moving to college. Be sure to read it and pass the information on to your future roommate well as your other college-bound friends.








We want to stress that this is an idea book. There are hundreds of great ideas here and we encourage you to those that interest you. But we could never capture all






 












Page 10




possibilities of a college career in any book. More than anything, we hope our ideas will help to inspire your own ideas for success and adventure on campus.








If you would like to share your ideas, we'd love to hear from you. Write us in care of the publisher, or e-mail us at steve@demand.com.






 












Page 11













Getting Started















 












Page 12




As an incoming freshman, it is only natural to experience a mixture of excitement and apprehension. Moving from the comfort of your home to the vast unknown of a college campus may seem a bit intimidating, but it will prove to be a rewarding step forward. After even a few days on campus, you'll begin to feel that your new home is like-home. Because you are entering a whole new world, it is difficult to know what to bring with you. In general, we recommend underpacking rather than overpacking, but we've listed several necessities that you should not leave home without.






 












Page 13




We encourage you to arrive on campus a few days before classes start, if possible. Attend as many of the orientation events as possible, while also taking plenty of time to simply wander around campus and get your bearings.








On the following pages are some tips for your preparation, arrival and first few days on campus.






 












Page 14




Visit your campus before school starts, if possible, and find the library, the bookstore, your dorm, the registration office and the student center.

















On arrival day, offer to help people move into the dorm. You'll make instant friends.

















Invest in a good dictionary.






 












Page 15




Contact your new roommate before school starts:








Call, write or e-mail him or her so you're not total strangers when you meet in person.








Coordinate your ''stuff." You need only one phone, answering machine, TV, VCR, stereo, iron, microwave.

















Expect a small closet and pack accordingly.






 












Page 16




Bring dorm-room essentials:








Hammer, screwdrivers and pliers.








A couple of plates, eating utensils, a drinking glass and coffee mug.








A plastic bucket for toiletries and plastic sandals for the grungy shower.








Two sets of sheets and towels.








A bathrobe.






 












Page 17




Definitely don't bring:








Your entire CD collection. (Label the ones you do bring with your name.)








Your entire collection of anything.








High school trophies and press clippings.








Heirlooms or valuables.

















Pack in soft-sided luggage that can be stored efficiently.






 












Page 18




Photocopy everything in your wallet or purse (except cash and condoms) front and back. Keep one copy and leave one with your parents.

















Get a calling card for emergency calls from the road.

















Rent a mini-fridge, but never defrost it.






 












Page 19




If you have a car on campus:








Get the necessary parking permits immediately.








Join a road service or auto club, such as AAA.

















Get on the mailing list for the ski club, arts society, film society, lecture series and anything else that interests you.






 












Page 20




Before you need them:








Learn the campus buses and/or shuttle services.








Memorize the number for the campus police.








Know where to go for injuries, toothaches, birth control and other medical needs.

















Forget your SAT scores, ACT scores and high school GPA. They don't matter anymore.






 












Page 21













The Art of College















 












Page 22




There's so much to learn, see and experience on a college campus, that you'll only scratch the surface in four years. So it's important to get started immediately. Our best advice is to maintain a balance between academics and other activities, and to fully explore the diverse possibilities of life on campus. Here are lots of ideas for making the most of your college career. They range from practical to creative to whimsical. Campus life should be a combination of all three.








Let the adventure begin!






 












Page 23




Consider registering for classes as an important right, not an unavoidable nuisance.

















Do not be intimidated by course offerings that read: "By Permission of Instructor Only." Find the professor and get permission to register.

















Check the finals schedule before registration. Make sure they're not bunched too tightly.






 












Page 24




Take your hardest schedules in the fall and winter.

















Never take more than one "Intro to..." class at a time.

















Find the cheapest and fastest place to make copies. You'll visit it often.






 












Page 25




Be a money manager:








Take advantage of student discounts.








Don't waste money on parking. Walk or bike as much as possible.








Record every transaction in your checkbook, especially ATM withdrawals.








Establish good credit by opening a VISA account and keeping your balance under control.






 












Page 26




Carry mace. Know which routes are lit at night. Travel in pairs. Think safe.

















Be green. Find out how to recycle and make it a habit.

















Keep a journal.






 












Page 27




Rush, even if you're not sold on Greek life. It's a great way to meet people.

















Get through a crisis on your own. You'll be surprised what you can achieve. The experience will teach you to tap into your own resources, learn your own power, and not rely on Mom and Dad, teachers or resident assistants to ''hold your hand."






 












Page 28




Use e-mail to correspond with family and friends. Because it's easy, immediate and doesn't require envelopes or stamps, you're less likely to procrastinate.

















Don't blow financial aid or anything else by missing filing deadlines.






 












Page 29




Put some discipline in your life:








Keep a planner/calendar in your bookbag and record all assignment due dates immediately.








Set your alarm to the buzzer, not the radio.








Don't let your clothes sit in the laundry room. They may get dirty, wrinkled or even stolen if you leave them too long.








Abstain from something you crave for an entire semester. Willpower is a great skill to develop.






 












Page 30




Exercise your body, as well as your mind:








Play mud football.








Ride the bike trails.








Sweat the fitness trail.








Take yoga or karate classes.

















Master the library as soon as possible.






 












Page 31




Go to a museum every semester, even if it's not related to a class you're taking.

















If you have a long drive home for the holidays, find a rider on the ride board to help defray expensesand make new acquaintances.






 












Page 32




Earn pizza money by being a subject in psychology experiments. Check psych department bulletin boards for notices.

















Pay parking tickets promptly, but get your revengeuse pennies.

















Vote. Request absentee ballots early.






 












Page 33




See classic films, and films that should be classics:








Citizen Kane.








Any film by that Akiro guy.








A Clockwork Orange.








The Delicatessen-a particularly dark French comedy.








Short Cuts.








Every Woody Allen movie. Or none of them.






 












Page 34




Be the first person you know to line up a summer job. Christmas break is not too early to start hunting.

















Wear your bathrobe on the way to the shower. You're not on NYPD Blue.

















If you're sexually active, have an AIDS test, use condoms and be honest with your partner.






 












Page 35




Entertain with flair:








Have a retro party. Play LP records on a turntable.








Host a slumber party.








Organize a pig roast.

















Resist the temptation to hassle the campus security cops.






 












Page 36




Open a checking account at school; you'll save ATM charges and avoid the hassle of cashing out-of-state checks.

















Avoid the ATM. It is your enemy.

















Smoke a cigar. Then quit smoking forever.






 












Page 37




Live at least one year in an off-campus apartment. It provides a different perspective and real-life experience with such skills as rent paying, utilities budgeting and landlord relations.

















Rebel against the skill you developed so fully in high schoolmaking excuses.






 












Page 38




Subscribe to at least one magazine each year. May we suggest:








Freshman: Rolling Stone.








Sophomore: Interview.








Junior: Spy.








Senior: Atlantic Monthly.

















Refuse to haze or be hazed.






 












Page 39




Treat yourself right:








Allow yourself one sleep-in morning a week, but not seven.








Reward yourself for a job well-done. Choose a new CD, see a movie, eat a hot fudge sundae.








Wear your jammies to the cafeteria.








Invite yourself to someone's apartment to cook yourself a decent meal.






 












Page 40




Pick up at least one of these habits: The Wall Street Journal, The New Yorker, National Public Radio.

















Convert a skill into spending money:








Start a word processing business.








Sew curtains and sell them to fellow students.








Start a bike repair service.








Open a fast, cheap room cleaning service.






 












Page 41




Attend every kind of religious ceremony you can find.

















Attend every ethnic festival you can find.

















Read Heart of Darkness and see Apocalypse Now on the same weekend.






 












Page 42




Get out of your room!

















Let your creativity flow:








Make a film. Have a gala first-showing party.








Start a band. If no one will pay you to play, donate your services to a dorm party.








Create a comic strip and submit it to the campus paper.








Conduct campus tours and make up stuff.






 












Page 43




Make a marked change to your appearance, at least temporarily. Shave your head, dye your hair, grow a beard, pierce something, get a tattoo. Or dare someone else to do so.

















Get a work study job, or any job you can find. Work off-campus if possible.

















Use a desk lamp. Most dorms are naturally dim.






 












Page 44




Set a standard time to meet your friends in the library lounge for a study break.

















Stay on campus at least one summer for classes or a summer job. The campus will have an entirely different and appealing pace in the summer.

















Volunteer to work at a nursing home in town.






 












Page 45




If the existing fraternities or sororities aren't right for you, start your own with your friends. Many national fraternities and sororities are seeking new colonies.

















Be a winner-enter a talent, writing or engineering contest.

















Learn as much as you can about the Internet and World Wide Web.






 












Page 46




Study smart:








Find an extremely private place to study.








Learn to highlight-one sentence per page, max.








Seek out a study partner for your toughest class.








Study for finals off campus, if possible.








Ask someone on a study date.






 












Page 47




Protect your PC with an anti-virus program and surge suppressor.

















If your schedule allows, set a regular time to phone your family each week.

















Meet new people by volunteering to work at an all-campus event.






 












Page 48




Attend MTV's Spring Break and find some way to get on the air.

















Store nonvaluables at a friend's apartment over the summer instead of shipping it all back home.

















Vacuum your floor...at least once a semester.






 












Page 49




Be a late-night connoisseur:








Order pizza way too often.








Find an alternative to pizza that delivers. Try Chinese and Thai for starters.








''Acquire" condiments for emergency use.

















Never borrow a car without putting gas in itmore than you used.






 












Page 50




There's nothing worse than being sick at school. Be sure to:








Get your flu shot.








Take vitamins.








Wear a hat.

















Go an entire day without saying "That sucks" or "That's cool."






 












Page 51




Take a course in meteorology, "weather" you need it or not.

















Set a challenging goal at the beginning of each semester and make it happen:








3.0 GPA.








Perfect attendance.








Two dates.






 












Page 52




If you find yourself dreading school, do something about it. See a counselor, change your major, take a semester off, transfer. Don't spend four years and a million bucks in a funk.

















Trade sweatshirts with friends at other colleges.

















Date someone based solely on personality.






 












Page 53




Find friends in the classroom:








Share cookies or other treats with everyone in one of your classes.








Let someone take advantage of you for notes, but only once.








Get to know a professor. Maintain the relationship after the course ends.






 












Page 54




Introduce yourself to someone who does not look like you, talk like you, worship like you or trace ancestry to the same continent.

















Be nice to the folks at the following offices: Registration, Financial Aid, Academic Affairs, the Bursar. You may need their help someday.






 












Page 55




Be a good dorm neighbor:








Be nice to your resident assistant. The job's tougher than it looks.








Binge on care packages from home until you feel sick, then share them with your friends.








Return the stuff you borrow before the owner has to ask.








Pay your pizza debts. Nobody like a mooch.






 












Page 56




Befriend the older man or woman who has returned to college after all those years of working and/or raising kids.

















Know more than the next guy:








Learn the meaning of Post-Modernism.








Understand supply and demand.








Know Aristotle from Plato and Kafka from Kierkegaard.






 












Page 57




Work at your campus radio station.

















Learn to drink coffee, and how to live without it.

















Listen to classical music: Elvis Presley, Van Morrison, Elvis Costello, Ray Charles.






 












Page 58




Make your room a social center; keep your door open when you want visitors.

















Appreciate the arts:








Know Monet from Manet. And Manet from David Mamet.








Know Stevie Ray Vaughan from Somerset Maugham.








Know Dada when you see it.






 












Page 59




Develop a crush on a graduate assistant, but don't do anything about it.

















Respect the privacy of your roommate. If you've walked in on a tearful conversation between boyfriend/girlfriend, walk out.

















Take compromising photos at a party. Someday someone you know will run for political office.






 












Page 60




Be nice to the dorky alums who show up for Homecoming. You'll be one soon enough.

















Date and be dated:








Ask out the person you keep staring at in class.








Go on a blind date, even if he or she is described as having a ''great personality."








Be honest with your hometown sweetheart. Or dump him or her.






 












Page 61




Cling to your "undeclared" major as long as you can. Declare one, then change it.

















When a friend shares his or her mother's cookies with you, send your friend's mother a thank-you note. More cookies will follow.






 












Page 62




Commit random acts of kindness upon your roommate:








Attend a class for your roommate when he or she can't make it.








Never play the same CD more than five times in a row.








Pop for a pizza if he or she is cramming for an exam.








Proofread your roommate's papers.






 












Page 63




Read Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance.

















Meet new people creatively:








Every time you're in a line of three or more people, talk to one of them.








Collect signatures for a petition.








Referee intramural sports games.








Set up a lemonade stand on the first nice day.






 












Page 64




Cherish your family:








Write your parents a letter and thank them for something important.








Invite younger siblings to visit you at school. Treat them well when they come.








Never brag or complain about the financial status of your parents.






 












Page 65




Utilize your campus placement center:








Create your resume.








Sign up for interviews.








Practice your interviewing skills in role-plays with counselors.








Research industries and companies.






 












Page 66




Attend the ballet, art openings, interpretive dance and every other kind of event you've never seen before.

















Write a note to one of your high school teachers who pushed you to be a better student. Or go back and visit.






 












Page 67




Be selective in your friendships:








Befriend the pizza guy.








Befriend your roommate's family.








Befriend the campus dogs and cats and the nice old people who work on campus.








Beware the rugby team.






 












Page 68




Be strategic:








Refuse to fail. D is infinitely better that F.








Learn the deadlines for dropping a class or taking an incomplete, before you need to use them.








Use pass/fail options to explore courses outside your major.








When your schedule is light, audit a class or two.








Sit in the front row at least once.








Sit in the back row at least once.






 












Page 69




Read a chapter of whatever bizarre book is lying on the table at the library when you arrive.

















Study abroad, regardless of your major:








Take a semester, summer or entire year.








Arrange your arrival/departure to maximize time for exploration.








Apply for these programs early.






 












Page 70




Read for pleasure no matter how swamped you are:








Read Raymond Carver.








Read Anne Tyler.








Read Eudora Welty.

















Don't beg for additional points when you have an A locked up.






 












Page 71




When in doubt, go for partial credit.

















Read something, anything by Chekhov or Dostoevski. But not when you're feeling depressed.

















Make a conscious decision to not cheat, and have the discipline to follow your decision.






 












Page 72




Experience the library for more than just study:








Make friends with the librarians.








Use the library's listening room to broaden your musical horizons.








Set off the book alarm at least once.








Take a nap on every level of the library.






 












Page 73




Take a graduate level classespecially if you are considering graduate school.

















If you're considering law school, med school or business school, visit one before you start filling out applications. Talk to students. Sit in on classes.

















Speak a foreign language every chance you get. Asking for lasagna in the cafeteria doesn't count.






 












Page 74




Double your viewing pleasure:








See Harold and Maude.








See Sid and Nancy.








See Melvin and Howard.








See Thelma and Louise.

















Take any class that has Lolita by Vladimir Nabokov on the reading list.






 












Page 75




Improve yourself:








Give up video games forever.








Stop dotting your i's with circles or hearts.








Learn to tie a bow tie.








Master every software program you can. Learn Mac and PC. Learn marketable skills like graphic design or multimedia.






 












Page 76




Drop a class, but only if it bores you. Never drop a class just because it is difficult, takes too much of your time or meets too early in the day.

















Take an introductory computer science class, even if you're an English major.

















Think ahead. Sit in on classes you'll be taking in future semesters. Pick professors carefully.






 












Page 77




Save all your class notes for at least four years after graduation. You never know where your life will lead you.

















Learn to write, even if you are headed for a technical profession. Take composition classes until you make B or better.






 












Page 78




Be yourself:








If you join a fraternity or sorority, refuse to conform to its stereotyped image.








Don't make any long-term decisions based solely on the expectations of your parents.








Don't take political correctness to the extreme.

















Take up crosswords, but not in class.






 












Page 79




Host a visiting high school senior. If he's cool, show him a great time. If he's obnoxious, tell him you wish you went somewhere else.

















Read 10 books over summer break each year. Real books. Get ahead by reading the fall semester reading list during the summer.

















Foster a platonic relationship.






 












Page 80




Learn a bar trickanything clever that can be done with quarters, dollar bills, straws, napkins, and so forth.

















Organize a daily primal scream during finals week. Convene each evening and release your tensions with your lungs.






 












Page 81




Be a booster:








Attend your sports teams' road games.








Climb the goal posts at the last game of the season, win or lose.








Tailgate before and after football games.








Support your College Bowl team, debate team and other notable eggheads.






 












Page 82




If there's any hint of grad school in your future, take GRE, LSAT, GMAT or other exams by the fall of senior year-before you forget how to study.

















Select a minor and pursue it. The greater the contrast to your major, the better.

















Develop a code with your roommate for those times when you need a bit of privacy.






 












Page 83




Forget basket-weaving:








Take a music appreciation class.








Take a modern dance class.








Take musical instrument or voice lessons.








Take a class in drawing, painting or sculpture.

















Never take more than $3 to quarter-beer night.






 












Page 84




Mix business and academics:








Offer to work as an assistant to a professor, even for free.








Seek out co-op and other work-and-learn programs. These are priceless experiences.








Consider a foreign language that will differentiate you in the job market-Russian, Spanish, Japanese, Korean.






 












Page 85




Value your professors:








Visit your professors during office hours.








Give honest feedback on professor/course evaluations, good or bad.








When you're stuck for a term paper topic, meet with your professor. He or she will do half your work for you.








Read a book written by one of your professors. Textbooks don't count.






 












Page 86




Regardless of your major, minor in variety:








Take at least one class that requires speaking in front of the class. If this is a phobia, take two.








Take a psychology class. Diagnose your friends.








Take a women's studies class.








Take a business class from someone who works in the ''real world" and teaches part-time.






 












Page 87




Be book smart:








Buy used books. Because most people highlight the wrong things, buy the cleanest copies you can find.








Get a card at the local community library. Borrow, don't buy, the books for your literature classes.








Sell or trade in the textbooks you never read. Keep the better ones.






 












Page 88




Fortify your resume without getting a job:








Get certified as an aerobics instructor, personal trainer or massage therapist.








Create a new board game and present it to game manufacturers.








Develop a new all-campus event and pitch it to possible sponsors.








Participate in a stock market investment contest.








Start a club and secure university funding.






 












Page 89




Pursue a new hobby:








Real photography and film development.








Fencing.








Darts.








Fashion design.








Bird watching.

















Learn to tap a keg.






 












Page 90




Hit the road:








Make a weekend road trip to another school.








Travel at least 100 miles to see a concert. Do not go by car.








Make a pilgrimage to the grave of a fallen hero: Elvis, Lou Gehrig, Susan B. Anthony, River Phoenix or the dead person of your choice.








During the summer, visit your college pals in their hometowns-or home countries.






 












Page 91




Shed your high school skin:








Grow out of your "computer geek" or "band nerd" image.








Punt that terrible name your parents gave you and rename yourself to your liking.

















Be a groupie of a campus band, but not for very long.






 












Page 92




Enjoy the best entertainment bargain anywhereattend a movie matinee every Saturday.

















Get ahead. Take heavier class loads during your freshmen, sophomore and junior years, so you can focus on job hunting (or golf) as a senior.

















Don't pin or be pinned.






 












Page 93




Make a pact with your roommate to keep your room locked when you're out.

















Campaign for the commencement speaker of your choice, but start two years ahead.

















Never miss a TGIF party.






 












Page 94




Party smartly:








Beware of any punch served from a giant trash can and stirred with an oar.








Have a party partner keep an eye on you, and vice versa.








Don't kiss him or her unless you're prepared to deal with him or her after the beer wears off.






 












Page 95




Stay up all night writing a paper if you absolutely must.

















Stay up all night watching Bill Murray films just because you want to.

















Learn the value of a degree by working as a laborer in the summer.






 












Page 96




Save philosophy classes for senior year when you're at your introspective best.

















Impress your date:








Know the history and architecture of your campus.








Memorize a poem to quote at a quiet moment.








Know the flowers and trees of your campus.






 












Page 97




Set a world record and publicize the effort, such as the longest continuous air hockey game.

















Learn the ultimate academic lesson: Smart is sexy.

















Nominate your campus dog, cat, meter maid, cafeteria cook or housemother for homecoming queen. And campaign relentlessly.






 












Page 98




Forget Daytona Beach. Make spring break an adventure to remember:








Go scuba diving or surfing.








Camp in the wilds, or prospect for gold.








Charter a sailboat in the Florida Keys.








Go skiing, or mountain biking, or white water rafting.






 












Page 99




Work on your attendance:








Attend campus drama productions, comedy shows, etc. Someday someone you see will be famous.








Attend any women's athletic event. Better yet, take a date.








Attend a fiction or poetry reading.








Attend a fencing match, or water polo, or some other unsupported club sport.






 












Page 100




Don't ruin college by looking for your life mate. There's plenty of time for that later.

















Have the proper props:








Throw rice and all that junk at The Rocky Horror Picture Show.








Buy an inexpensive or used tux (they'll never know) and wear it every chance you get.






 












Page 101




Treat your parents right:








Invite them to Parents' Weekend every year, and make time for them when they come.








Fax them the exam you aced.








Shock them. Show up at home without warning-and without a bag of dirty laundry.








If you remember only one important day each year, let it be Mother's Day.






 












Page 102




Cross-dress for a day and use the experience for a sociology paper.

















Push yourself:








Survive a dance marathon.








Live for a week on $3, even if you have plenty of cash.








Perform at any amateur night.






 












Page 103




When you outgrow your computer, donate it to a school or charity.

















Take a wine-tasting course during your senior year (if you are of legal age).

















Compete with your roommate. See who can go the longest without using ''like" as an adjective or adverb.






 












Page 104




Visit every building on campus and figure out what goes on in each.

















Apply for any honorary societies for which you qualify. They almost never meet and they look good on your record.

















Learn ballroom dancing.






 












Page 105




Take a byte:








If you're not a computer whiz, befriend one.








Save your work every five or 10 minutes. Back up any long-term projects on diskette.








Use the spellchecker before you print.








If you buy a computer, look for educational discounts and go for all the RAM you can afford.






 












Page 106




Feed your ears:








Hear fascinating people you've never heard of at the various departments' lecture series.








Listen to "World Cafe" on public radio.








Enjoy the obtuse music of Tom Waits.








Listen to Rusted Root and the BoDeans.








Travel any distance to see the Barenaked Ladies in concert.






 












Page 107




Rent all the goodies from the student center-inline skates, bikes, video cameras, pool tables, whatever.

















Develop a ritual for 21st birthdays and enforce it within your circle of friends:








A special birthday costume to wear all day.








An embarrassing public performance.








An ad in the campus newspaper.






 












Page 108




Start a fan club for the third string catcher on the baseball team. Make a big fuss-posters, membership cards, T-shirts, chants. Change that person's life.

















Work on a political campaign.

















Make an impression in job interviews: Bring your own business card.






 












Page 109




Enter a float in the homecoming parade, something so outrageous people will talk about it for years.

















Read the Sunday New York Times with a friend.

















Play any co-ed intramural sport.






 












Page 110




Be playful:








Play lots of foosball, but never spin the rods.








Find a backgammon, chess or Scrabble partner and play regularly.








Play ultimate Frisbee, but never play hackysack.








Play quarters, thumper and all the other drinking games. Get them out of your system.






 












Page 111




Speak your mind:








Go ahead, raise your hand. Tell the professor what you think.








Send a coherent letter to the president of the university regarding an area that needs improvement.








Submit a guest editorial to a local radio station.






 












Page 112




Circle 50 items in this book that you want to do before graduating. And try to actually do them.

















Explore bulletin boards in the science departments. Volunteer for archaeological digs, surveys, nature studies or urban exploration. You might even get cheap passage to a faraway place.






 












Page 113




Expand your skills:








Learn one or more of the following: SCUBA, CPR, American Sign Language, country line dancing.








Learn how to fix a car.








Learn how to shoot pool.








Learn how to keep score in bowling.








Train for and run a marathon.






 












Page 114




Volunteer to call alumni to ask for donations. When you talk to someone friendly, ask for a job.

















Put some jazz into your life. Start with CDs by Charlie Parker, Eddie Jefferson and Horace Silver.

















If you go through rush, use an alias at the worst house, and tell some bizarre tale about yourself.






 












Page 115




Get competitive:








Foster a heated rivalry with another dorm or house.








Play broomball, a wonderful game involving ice, sneakers and brooms.








Run for student government.








Compete with your roommate to see who can get better grades for the semester.






 












Page 116




Wait in line all night or longer for some event that doesn't merit it.

















Act in a drama production, or do sets, costumes or lights.

















Sell spring break trips for a travel company. Your trip is free.






 












Page 117




Enjoy these supreme road trips:








New Orleans Jazz Fest.








Chicago Blues Fest.








Halloween in Madison, Wisconsin.








Oktoberfest in Cincinnati, Toronto or Munich.








Any ''bowl" game.








The Final Four.






 












Page 118




Lend your support:








Become a Big Brother or Big Sister.








Join the coaching staff of a local scholastic team.








Tutor, either on campus or at a local high school.








Volunteer for a cause you believe in.






 












Page 119




Go back to high school and talk to seniors about your college.

















Create your own home page, where friends and family can find you online.

















If you're a commuter, spend the night with a friend on campus once in a while. Or have a friend come home with you.






 












Page 120




Stand out from the crowd:








Make a spectacle of yourself at a basketball game.








Dream up the most absurd or offensive name possible for your intramural sports team.








Have an opinion and defend it relentlessly.








Be different. Be responsible.






 












Page 121




Stay at school over Thanksgiving. Find a real oven and learn to make grandma's stuffing recipe.

















Learn a new sport-squash, badminton, racquetball, golf.

















Don't lose your friends; before graduation, collect the home addresses of your buddies and their parents.






 












Page 122




Watch what you eat:








Gain the inevitable freshman 15, but not an ounce more.








Make at least one meaningful substitution in your dietyogurt for ice cream, juice for cola, fish for beefand stick with it.








Eat the worm. (Okay, it's not healthy, but you'll be the life of the party.)






 












Page 123




Visit the Art Institute of Chicago, the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, the Smithsonian in Washington, D.C.or Dollywood.

















Don't be afraid to negotiate with professors; offer to write a paper instead of taking an exam if the subject interests you.






 












Page 124




Capture your college experience for the amusement of future generations:








Take pictures of your friendsat class, on campus, at parties.








Create a photo album each year.








Make a video tapea day in your life.








Buy the yearbook.






 












Page 125




Prepare for life after college:








Collect letters of recommendation before you need them.








Start building your network of possible job contacts.








Try to land internships or summer jobs where you have the potential for more contacts.








Keep a running list of achievements, awards, jobs and activities to include on your resume.






 












Page 126




Reduce the deficit; be prepared to repay your student loans on schedule.

















See The Graduate. Watch and learn.

















Graduate.






 



