












The Law of the Looking Glass
  









Ohio University Press Polish and Polish-American Studies Series
    

Series Editor: John J. Bukowczyk


Framing the Polish Home: Postwar Cultural Constructions of Hearth, Nation, and Self, edited by Bożena
      Shallcross
    

Traitors and True Poles: Narrating a Polish-American Identity, 1880-1939, by Karen Majewski
    

Auschwitz, Poland, and the Politics of Commemoration, 1945-1979, by Jonathan Huener
    

The Exile Mission: The Polish Political Diaspora and Polish Americans, 1939-1956, by Anna D.
      Jaroszyńska-Kirchmann
    

The Grasinski Girls: The Choices They Had and the Choices They Made, by Mary Patrice Erdmans
    

Testaments: Two Novellas of Emigration and Exile, by Danuta Mostwin
    

The Clash of Moral Nations: Cultural Politics in Piłsudski's Poland, 1926-1935, by Eva Plach
    

Holy Week: A Novel of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, by Jerzy Andrzejewski
    

The Law of the Looking Glass: Cinema in Poland, 1896-1939, by Sheila Skaff
    

      SERIES ADVISORY BOARD
    

      M. B. B. Biskupski, Central Connecticut State University
    

      Robert E. Blobaum, West Virginia University
    

      Anthony Bukoski, University of Wisconsin-Superior
    

      Bogdana Carpenter, University of Michigan
    

      Mary Patrice Erdmans, Central Connecticut State University
    

      Thomas S. Gladsky, Central Missouri State University (ret.)
    

      Padraic Kenney, Indiana University
    

      John J. Kulczycki, University of Illinois at Chicago (ret.)
    

      Ewa Morawska, University of Essex
    

      Antony Polonsky, Brandeis University
    

      Brian Porter-Szûcs, University of Michigan
    

      James S. Pula, Purdue University North Central
    

      Thaddeus C. Radzilowski, Piast Institute
    

      Daniel Stone, University of Winnipeg
    

      Adam Walaszek, Jagiellonian University
    

      Theodore R. Weeks, Southern Illinois University
    










The Law of the Looking Glass
    

Cinema in Poland, 1896-1939


      Sheila Skaff
    

      OHIO UNIVERSITY PRESS
    

      ATHENS
    










Ohio University Press, Athens, Ohio 45701
    

www.ohioswallow.com


      © 2008 by Ohio University Press
    

      All rights reserved
    

      To obtain permission to quote, reprint, or otherwise reproduce or distribute material from Ohio University Press
      publications, please contact our rights and permissions department at (740) 593-1154 or (740) 593-4536 (fax).
    

      Printed in the United States of America
    

      Ohio University Press books are printed on acid-free paper ™
    

      16 15 14 12 11 10 09 08     5 4 3 2 1
    

      Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
    

      Skaff, Sheila.
    

      The law of the looking glass : cinema in Poland, 1896-1939 / Sheila Skaff.
    

      p.   cm.
    

      Includes bibliographical references and index.
    

      ISBN-13: 978-0-8214-1784-3 (cloth : alk. paper)
    

      ISBN-10: 0-8214-1784-3 (cloth: alk. paper)
    

      1. Motion pictures—Poland—History. 2. Motion picture industry—Poland—History. I. Title.
    

      PN1993.5.P55S44 2008
    

      791.4309438'09041—dc22
    

      2008006416
    

      ISBN: 978-0-8214-4252-4 (e-book)
    










Publication of books in the Polish and Polish-American Studies Series has been made
      possible in part by the generous support of the following organizations:
    

      Polish American Historical Association,
    

      New Britain, Connecticut
    

      Stanislaus A. Blejwas Endowed Chair in Polish and Polish American Studies,
    

      Central Connecticut State University, New Britain, Connecticut
    

      The Polish Institute of Arts and Sciences of America, Inc.,
    

      New York, New York
    

      The Piast Institute: An Institute for Polish and Polish American Affairs,
    

      Detroit, Michigan
    










Contents
    

List of Illustrations


Series Editor's Preface


Acknowledgments


Guide to Pronunciation


INTRODUCTION. The Cult of Visibility


1. The First Films, 1896-1908


2. The Emergence of a Competitive
      Industry, 1908-18


3. From National Cinema to Cinema in the
      Nation-State, 1918-23


4. The Golden Years of Silent Cinema,
      1923-29


5. The Transition from Silent to Sound
      Film, 1929-30


6. The Transition in Practice,
      1930-36


7. Beyond the Talkies, 1936-39


CONCLUSION. Visual Imagery and Language
      after World War II


APPENDIX. Select Filmography


Notes


Bibliography


Index











Illustrations
    

An advertisement for an early demonstration
      of the Cinématographe


Rialto motion picture theater in Warsaw
      in the 1920s


The Leo-Forbert production team during
      filming of One of the 36


Antek the Police Chief
      (1935)


Souls in Slavery (1930)


The Girls of Nowolipki (1937)


The Leper (1936)


Halka (1937)


An advertisement for The Ghosts
      (1938)


The Ghosts (1938)


The Dybbuk (1937)











Series Editor's Preface
    

      POLISH FILM AND CINEMATOGRAPHY rank among the leading examples of the cinematic arts in the late twentieth
      century. Sheila Skaff's excellent revisionist study, The Law of the Looking Glass: Cinema in Poland,
      1896-1939, examines the background and development of cinema and cinematography in Poland from their
      earliest moments in the late nineteenth century through the late nineteen thirties, when world war and political
      change created a dramatic break with the past and launched the country into a new phase of filmmaking practice.
    

      Skaff's book offers a thorough look at a subject that has yet to be studied in depth by more than a handful of
      scholars, possibly because of the extensive linguistic and technical expertise required to approach it credibly.
      The book, according to Skaff, "attempts to recapture the multilingualism and social diversity of cinema in the
      partitioned lands and independent Poland." Indeed, rather than narrowing her own cinematic gaze and succumbing to
      the temptation to focus exclusively on Polish-language cinema and its relationship to Polish nationalism and
      nation building, Skaff wisely examines the cinematic traditions and practices among filmmakers of various
      ethnocultural and linguistic backgrounds in a multiethnic pre-1939 Poland. Her revisionist approach will earn the
      book a central place in the canon of Polish film studies. Her choice of an ending date for her study is a wise
      one, as well. World War II decimated the ranks of Polish filmmakers, and after the war the new Communist
      government nationalized the Polish film industry, bringing the chaotic-dynamic prewar era to a quiet close.
      Despite this obvious rupture with the cinematic tradition of the prewar years, Skaff nonetheless shows the
      carryover of important artistic influences and sensibilities, successfully making the argument that "this
      cultivation of the art of looking has proven a revered tradition that reaches to the beginning of the
      twenty-first century."
    

      For a volume so rich in information, the book is gracefully written and jargon-free. In this important and
      provocative study, Skaff displays a solid knowledge of Polish history, ambitious coverage of her topic,
      originality, and what one reader has called an "unmistakable passion for Polish film." The Law of the Looking Glass: Cinema in Poland, 1896-1939 is a valuable work that will find a broad
      audience among students of Polish history, film scholars, and film buffs alike.
    

      Publication of the Ohio University Press Polish and Polish-American Studies Series marks a milestone in the
      maturation of the Polish studies field and stands as a fitting tribute to the scholars and organizations whose
      efforts have brought it to fruition. Supported by a series advisory board of accomplished Polonists and
      Polish-Americanists, the Polish and Polish-American Studies Series has been made possible through generous
      financial assistance from the Polish American Historical Association, the Polish Institute of Arts and Sciences
      of America, the Stanislaus A. Blejwas Endowed Chair in Polish and Polish American Studies at Central Connecticut
      State University, and the Piast Institute and through institutional support from Wayne State University and Ohio
      University Press. The series meanwhile has benefited from the warm encouragement of a number of other persons,
      including Gillian Berchowitz, M. B. B. Biskupski, the late Stanislaus A. Blejwas, Mary Erdmans, Thaddeus Gromada,
      James S. Pula, Thaddeus Radzilowski, and David Sanders. The moral and material support from all of these
      institutions and individuals is gratefully acknowledged.
    

John J. Bukowczyk











Acknowledgments
    

      This book was made possible with the help of several people. I would like to express my admiration for my
      dissertation advisor at the University of Michigan, Richard Abel, and extend my deepest gratitude to him and to
      Hubert Cohen, Marek Haltof, Piotr Michalowski, and Charles O'Brien for their expert advice at various stages of
      this project. I want to thank series editor John Bukowczyk of Wayne State University as well as Gillian
      Berchowitz and Rick Huard of Ohio University Press for their skillful and patient editing of the manuscript. I am
      grateful to staff members of the Filmoteka Narodowa, Biblioteka Narodowa, and Archiwum Akt Nowych in Warsaw for
      their help in locating materials and illustrations. I appreciate everything that you have done to cultivate my
      hope for this project.
    

      I would like to thank my family and friends for their encouragement, optimism, kindness, and generosity. Above
      all, my friends in Warsaw have made my research trips unforgettable. Thank you.
    

      Finally, I would like to dedicate this book to my nephew, William Skaff, for reminding me that words are
      precious.
    










Guide to Pronunciation
    

      The following key provides a guide to the pronunciation of Polish words and names.
    

      a is pronounced as in father


      c as ts, as in cats


      ch as guttural h, as in German Bach


      cz as hard ch, as in church


      g (always hard), as in get


      i as ee, as in meet


      j as y, as in yellow


      rz as hard zh, as in French jardin


      sz as hard sh, as in ship


      szcz as hard shch, as in fresh cheese


      u as oo, as in boot


      w as v, as in vat


      ć as soft ch, as in cheap


      ś as soft sh, as in sheep


      ż as hard zh, as in French jardin


      ź as soft zh, as in seizure


      ó as oo, as in boot


      ą as a nasal, as in French on


      ę as a nasal, as in French en


      ł as w, as in way


      ń as ny, as in canyon


      The accent in Polish words always falls on the penultimate syllable.
    The Law of the Looking Glass
  









INTRODUCTION
    

      The Cult of Visibility
    

      WHEN HE ARRIVED IN Kraków to give the first demonstration of the Cinématographe in late 1896, itinerant Lumière
      exhibitor Eugène Joachim DuPont realized that counterfeit copies of the apparatus were circulating in the region.
      He defended his patented apparatus by referring to it as the only "real" one. An advertisement for the first
      demonstration concluded, "The Lumière brothers from Lyon are the exclusive inventors of the real
      Cinématographe."1 For
      DuPont, "real" may have been an expression for "patented" or "high quality." Nevertheless, he probably knew that
      audiences would understand it, at least in part, as a synonym for the national-cultural institutions of France.
      The initial program of short films featured national symbols of European powers, including images of the Plaza
      Mayor in Madrid, the French cavalry, and the Spanish artillery. It included none of the short films that had been
      shot in the lands annexed by Austria, Prussia, and Russia at the end of the eighteenth century and partitioned
      among them until 1918. In its emphasis on the symbols of existing nation-states rather than those of the occupied
      territories, the first program offered viewers the opportunity for national and personal identification with the
      screen images without the burden of actual participation. Although the first audience complained about the poor
      quality of the projection, critics expressed awe for the "truth" of which DuPont spoke when he claimed that his
      apparatus was the only real one—a complex truth that grew to encompass more than the provenance of the motion
      picture camera or the pictures themselves. This truth was a blurry notion of the way that things had been, were,
      and should be. As depicted in the first short films projected in the eastern lands, Europe was a modernizing
      society complete with confidence-inspiring national militaries and sausage-grinding machines. In addition to being novel, early cinema in the partitioned lands revived a distant familiarity
      with these objects. Its shameless kindling of nostalgia for the embryonic republic of generations past prompted
      viewers both to identify with and to long for a nation-state.
    

      In the partitioned lands, cinema roused the first audiences to compare the images on the screen to the aesthetic,
      linguistic, and economic conditions of their own communities. Audiences, and later, filmmakers, formed a
      multifarious and fickle relationship with the apparatus and the screen. No writer more thoroughly describes the
      complexity of the situation than does Karol Irzykowski in his book on film theory, Dziesiąta muza:
      Zagadnienia estetyczne kina (The Tenth Muse: Aesthetic Considerations of Cinema), published in the
      reconstituted Poland in 1924 and republished in 1957. In a chapter titled "The Law of the Looking Glass,"
      Irzykowski considers the ways in which cinema both reflects and distorts reality. He claims that cinema allows
      viewers to study the world without directly engaging in it:
    

      I once saw the moves of some English gymnasts as they marched in time, breaking up to form patterns such as
      stars, etc. I am not embarrassed to admit that I liked these performances in the cinema better than the
      many live ones I had seen. There is in man a desire to view things and events in abstraction from
      reality. The more directly he has experienced them, the more he would like to have them before him once
      again in a less committal, harmless and more exact form. This is one of the sources of art (as well as of
      science). For only half of the world is ruled by the principle of action; the other half is subject to the
      laws of reflection.2


      Irzykowski argues that cinema offers an escape from the necessity of physical interaction with the world even as
      it extends the possibility of studying others' interactions with it. As such, it may have cushioned the blows of
      modernity—including those resulting from its lack—for audiences in the partitioned lands. Irzykowski explains
    

      In cinema, a locomotive rushes straight toward you. It is already approaching, expanding more rapidly than in
      reality, like a monster, in order to devour you . . . when suddenly it is surrendered, it has infiltrated you;
      you still feel anxiety for a moment—an anxiety that is truly nice, maybe the kind that some English lord
      experiences when he is hunting in the jungle with a protective shield. But if you also had heard the chug of a
      locomotive and the clang of its wheels and had sensed its horrifying weight, if the foul odor of its smoke had
      reached you, you would have been petrified and would have jumped up and run
      away, thinking that under the pretense of a motion picture show you had been lured into a trap. . . . But this is
      only an optical locomotive, a locomotive-apparition, which passes through you.3


      Because film is a visual medium, Irzykowski implores filmmakers to pay attention to the consumption of its
      imagery by viewers. Audiences lord over the screen, according to Irzykowski. In doing so, they become masters of
      the terrain presented there, impassively devouring even the most terrifying images. He writes
    

      By all appearances, photographic objectivism is one of the cinema's features. However, a certain mystical
      possessiveness resides in humans, which identifies "seeing" with "having." This is why cinema aims to make the
      world optical. . . . It not only renders what we usually see. It also spies for us, persistently and
      courageously, that which we do not see because of inaccessibility or impatience. It shows the struggle of a polyp
      with a crab in the water, it breaks a horse's gallop into its components, it sees in ellipsis how grass grows; in
      the end, it even makes us believe that it sees unusual and supernatural things (special effects, fantasy
      films).4


      Two issues are at stake here. First, Irzykowski's claim that cinema is an entirely visual medium derives from an
      intellectual tradition that considered an organic desire to overcome linguistic barriers an essential element of
      Polish national culture. For more than a decade before writing his book, Irzykowski had been declaring his
      opposition to the transition from silent to sound film, which occurred in independent Poland in 1929 and 1930 and
      which contributed to the widening divisions among speakers of the welter of languages encompassed by the new
      state. Irzykowski, for one, considered words amorphous, insubstantial, and detrimental to communication. Inside
      the motion picture theater, language differences led to ethnic tension, segregation, and even violence. In his
      view, cinema was undergoing "the same sort of basic cultural transformation of the soul that happened in the
      invention of writing or script. However, those changes took place slowly, while this one is occurring abruptly
      and before our own eyes."5
      His struggle to cut short this transformation is one of the major issues in the region's cinema.
    

      The second issue arises as early as the first projections. Viewers' "mystical possessiveness" of the objects on
      the screen is of particular relevance to the partitioned lands. Cinema granted audiences a peek at the symbols of
      modern national consciousness, of which they had long read and heard. They had
      seen these symbols in still photographs, but now they could glean meaning from people's interactions with them
      and the other objects on the screen. Every movement, from the way that the leaves rustled to the tipping of a
      hat, took on meaning. Film exposed movement—and, therefore, motivation—that viewers brought under their control
      by the very act of comprehending it. Irzykowski writes, "The optical surface of the world is becoming larger.
      Let's imagine that it had been twisted, wrinkled, and creased until now and that the folds are now slowly
      smoothing out, in order to obey the law of reflection."6 Yet Irzykowski accentuates the potential for misunderstanding
      the world through cinema. He concludes, "Cinema is a cult of visibility. Cinema registers the world, but it may
      also turn it into fiction."7 What, then, may it turn into fiction?
    

      Because cinema in Poland is associated with the country's political and cultural situation, a brief introduction
      to Polish history may be helpful. In the late eighteenth century, Austria, Prussia, and Russia annexed parts of
      the region. In the partitions of 1772, 1793, and 1795, the empires carved new borders through the corresponding
      eastern, northwestern, and southwestern lands of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, or Res Publica, until,
      little by little, it ceased to exist. The Polish constitution passed on May 3, 1791, which promised to create a
      modern constitutional monarchy, never had a chance to take hold. For the most part, the territories' ties to the
      empires were based on historical, ethnic, or geographical connections that existed only on paper. In reality, the
      inhabitants retained many of the diverse cultural, religious, and linguistic traditions known under the Res
      Publica. The languages spoken in the region included German, Lithuanian, Polish, Russian, Ukrainian, and Yiddish.
      A serf-labor, agrarian socioeconomic structure remained intact for many years. Members of the powerful Roman
      Catholic Church lived alongside Jews, Orthodox Christians, Protestants, and Uniates. Most significantly, a
      revolutionary spirit—a free, curious, polyglot spirit—took hold during the final partition. The opening line of
      the anthem adopted by the newly formed Polish foreign legion in Italy, "Jeszcze Polska nie umarła, kiedy my
      żyjemy" (Poland has not died as long as we live), illustrated the new sense of nationhood.8


      Consequently, in 1896, cinema did not arrive in Poland but in parts of Austria-Hungary, the Kingdom of Prussia,
      and the Russian Empire, where descendents of some of the inhabitants of the
      former Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth had carried on a century-long struggle for independence. Inhabitants were
      usually allowed to move freely among the formerly Polish areas of the empires, though for most of the nineteenth
      century, their opportunities were limited by informal social restrictions on movement between classes, in
      particular the continued exploitation of peasants and Jews (even after the abolition of serfdom) by landowners.
      The political and cultural state of affairs of the region varied according to empire and period. As a result,
      each part of the region greeted the introduction of cinema a bit differently.
    

      The southern region of Galicia, which was under Hapsburg rule, included the present-day Ukrainian towns of L'viv
      (Ger. Lemberg, Pol. Lwów) and Drohobych (Ger. Drohobytsch, Pol. Drohobycz). In 1846, Austria also annexed Kraków
      (Ger. Krakau), the most culturally active city in the region. Consequently, the areas arrogated to
      Austria-Hungary (as the imperial state was known after 1867) became the most densely populated of the partitioned
      regions. The late 1860s brought the emancipation of the Jews, who long had maintained a degree of cultural and
      linguistic latitude, and greater freedoms for everyone else. Speakers of German, Polish, Ukrainian, and Yiddish
      enjoyed a great deal of cultural autonomy, which allowed for an active university life as well as publications
      and theater productions in several languages. It should come as no surprise, then, that the very first
      demonstrations of moving pictures in the partitioned lands took place in Kraków.
    

      The northern and western parts of the former commonwealth, including the Baltic Sea area called Pomerania and the
      southwestern area of Silesia, were under control of the German Empire, or Kingdom of Prussia, and comprised a
      mixture of German-speakers and Polish-speakers. The cities of Bydgoszcz (Bromberg), Gdańsk (Danzig), Królewiec
      (Königsberg, present-day Kaliningrad), Poznań (Posen), and Wrocław (Breslau) were part of this region. The
      Prussian lands of the former commonwealth enjoyed more economic stability than the other partitions as well as
      such social privileges as obligatory elementary school education (from 1825). But its Catholic and Jewish
      residents experienced severe limitations on their religious and cultural activity. In many areas, the majority of
      inhabitants were Lutheran and German-speaking.
    

      The Russian partition constituted almost 60 percent of the lands of the former commonwealth but was less densely
      populated than either Galicia or Prussia. It included parts of present-day Belarus (including Minsk), Lithuania
      (including Vilnius and Kaunas), and Ukraine (including Zhytomyr). This area
      witnessed much insurrectional activity during the partitions for several reasons, including friction between the
      large percentage of Polish-speaking Catholics living there (as high as 80 percent) and the Russian-speaking,
      Orthodox ruling class as well as several reactionary political moves by both Russia and the insurgents.
    

      Twentieth-century Polish filmmakers often sought their subject matter in the major events of the nineteenth
      century, seeing in them the essence of Polish nationhood. Literature dealing with failed uprisings, in
      particular, inspired many a filmmaker. The first revolt, known as the November Uprising of 1830-31, spurred the
      Great Emigration, in which several thousand military and intellectual leaders fled to Paris and other European
      cities out of fear of reprisals. Many of these intellectuals turned the failure of the revolution into an
      internationally supported movement for independence. They drew plans for the reinstitution of the former borders
      and formed a literary movement known as Polish Romantic nationalism, which flourished in the 1830s and 1840s. The
      Polish Romantics, particularly their most important poet, Adam Mickiewicz, took very seriously the unifying
      possibilities of the Polish language. Their attachment to the language was as political as it was emotional and
      nostalgic. It offered proof that a nation could flourish as a diaspora of citizens of various empires and
      countries. However, their attachment to language was also universalistic, asking speakers of other languages to
      understand its messages, even if they could not understand its words, and to align themselves with its cause.
      Many of them looked to mysticism and religious radicalism to find expression for a homeland that existed without
      land—a home in words, simultaneously universal and national. In their longing for and preoccupation with the fate
      of the nation, they wrote passionate, imploring poetry and drama that drew from the traditions of Slavic
      folklore, kabbalah, Martinism, and other mystical outlets of expression. They glorified patriotism and strove to
      awaken a Polish national consciousness, which they felt was asleep within the hearts and minds of
      Polish-speakers. A second failed insurrection in 1846 and revolutionary activity in other parts of Europe during
      the so-called Spring of Nations in 1848 strengthened the resolve to regain independence. A third failed
      insurrection, the January Uprising of 1863 in the Congress Kingdom, was a turning point for the nationalist
      movement. Russian powers renamed the area "Vistula Land" and removed its autonomy, triggering the transformation of its socioeconomic structure. Insurgents were executed or deported to
      Siberia, the Polish nobility lost its status, and local languages were made unofficial. The Polish nationalist
      movement reacted by intensifying its campaign in the German Empire. In Galicia, where cultural autonomy
      accompanied a lack of economic control, some people expressed a need for agricultural modernization and economic
      overhaul.
    

      At this time, there emerged a new literary movement, Positivism, which supported "organic work," scientific
      progress, and economic reform. Positivist writers such as Eliza Orzeszkowa and Bolesław Prus examined daily life
      in the empires, the relationship between human beings and nature, and Polish history in their novels. The
      Positivists were avid translators, acquainting readers in the partitions with Western traditions and encouraging
      the influx of new ideas and technology. They supported industrialization, openness to other countries, and free
      labor, which resulted in the migration of the emancipated peasants and minorities to large cities. In 1887,
      visionaries and intellectuals took notice of yet another example of Positivist ingenuity: the publication of a
      guide to the artificial language Esperanto, written by Ludwik Lejzer Zamenhof, of Białystok (Bielastok). In later
      years, many Positivists took an active interest in cinema and saw their works adapted for the screen, and film
      critics were counted among the most avid proponents of Esperanto.9 At the same time, Yiddish emerged from the neighborhoods and the
      shtetls as a rich language, full of original metaphors and colorful proverbs expressive of the folkloric
      traditions of Jews in the region. It, too, became a source of inspiration for filmmakers.
    

      It was in the 1890s, toward the end of the Positivist movement, that local activists began to form political
      organizations. The multiplicity of these organizations and of the schools of thought that separated them
      demonstrates the ideological chaos that accompanied the introduction of cinema. The Polish Socialist Party (PPS)
      came into being in 1892 to promote the reestablishment of the Polish state and the implementation of a socialist
      program. Józef Piłsudski soon became its leader. A year later, Rosa Luxemburg and other doctrinaire Marxists
      formed the Social Democratic Party (SDKP). Although the SDKP sought to bring socialism to the region, it did not
      seek Polish independence. A modern Polish nationalist party, the National Democratic Party, found a leader in
      Roman Dmowski, whose nationalist ideology was decidedly xenophobic, anti-Jewish, and anti-German. Dmowski
      demanded the full assimilation of non-Polish minorities to his view of Polish
      tradition, which did not include the custom of religious and linguistic tolerance known in the former Res
      Publica.
    

      The actual role of language in daily life varied according to time and place, ranging from the liberal policies
      of the Austro-Hungarian Empire to the strict prohibitions on use of language in education and government that
      characterized the Congress Kingdom of Poland. In the hearts and imaginations of Polish speakers, Polish
      flourished. To speak Polish—for Jews and Lutherans, as well as for Catholics—was to be Polish, and to be Polish
      was, with little room for exception, to long for a homeland. One of the main arenas for the cultivation of this
      desire for national sovereignty was Polish-language theater production. In spite of its limitations with regard
      to language, early traveling cinema fulfilled at least one function that theater could not. As entrepreneurs
      traveled with their exhibits, moving constantly among the small towns in the empires, they were potential
      carriers of the kinds of information—national, educational, social, and cultural agendas—that supporters of
      Polish autonomy wanted to transmit.
    

      The first two decades of cinema were also the last decades of the partition period, a chaotic time in those
      regions. Discrepancies among the empires in the levels of modernization, education, and wealth, as well as in the
      general feeling of community made the thought of reunifying Poland difficult. Piłsudski and the PPS supported the
      Russian Revolution of 1905 by organizing strikes and boycotts in the Russian partition. Reaction to the
      revolution varied among the many political groups vying for popular support, but this particular activity of the
      PPS drew attention to Poles' possible willingness to engage in armed conflict to bring about independence. In
      this atmosphere of chaos, fear, determination, and pride, a new literary-cultural movement, Młoda Polska (Young
      Poland), was born. Young Poland was as disordered as the period in which it arose; decadent writers and artists
      stressed the ideals of aestheticism, pure form, and art as an absolute. Art, they felt, should be divorced from
      politics and created only for its own sake. Reconciling their approach to art with the political situation of the
      time, however, they also brought the Romantic nationalist poets back into vogue and supported the use of the
      Polish language.
    

      Almost ten million people in the three territories considered themselves Polish in 1870. In spite of the
      emigration of more than three and a half million people of Polish descent (mainly to the United States and South
      America), this number had doubled by 1914. Thanks to the support of the Western
      Allies in the war, good timing, and a lot of luck, what had seemed impossible finally happened. In 1918, the
      empires fell apart, and Poland became an independent country. Released from captivity in Germany, military leader
      Piłsudski was named provisional head of the Rzeczpospolita Polska, or the Second Republic of Poland. His
      political party, the PPS, supported a democratic parliamentary system, a collective system of industrialization,
      agricultural reform, and labor unions. The new country had many social and economic issues to resolve, and both
      external hostilities and internal dissension marred the first years of independence.
    

      First, the Polish-Soviet War of 1919-21 erupted over the issue of Poland's eastern borders. In April 1919, the
      Polish army acquired Vilnius and, in July of the same year, secured the eastern part of Galicia from Ukrainian
      independence-seekers living there. One of the most decisive battles, called the "Miracle on the Vistula" by the
      Polish victors, became a popular subject for filmmakers in the years that followed. The war ended in March 1921
      (one day after the country's new constitution was passed) with the Treaty of Riga, which established the eastern
      borders almost exactly where they had been before the partitions (to the disappointment of Lithuania, which had
      wanted to keep Vilnius).
    

      In the west, violent arguments over border issues became common in the mixed German- and Polish-populated area of
      Upper Silesia. Mutual resentment led to the migration of these groups away from each other, and several thousand
      people fled the country in the first years of independence. As the interwar period progressed, the lack of trust
      between Poles and Germans in the areas of the former German Empire hampered the development of good relations.
      This was particularly apparent in the regional film industry, where spats over film distribution and exhibition
      were commonplace until World War II.
    

      The country was in a dire political and economic situation. The first elected president, Gabriel Narutowicz, was
      assassinated just one week after his election in 1921. It took several years to replace the interim currency with
      the new, permanent złoty. In the meantime, the government had to deal with both inflation and the
      demands of citizens, many of whom had expected immediate economic stability and good working conditions along
      with independence. Perhaps the most devastating government control on the film industry was put in place under
      the difficult economic conditions of the early 1920s. Strapped for funds, the
      government placed taxes on so-called luxury items. Tickets to the cinema were among the most heavily taxed of
      these items, putting moviegoing out of the reach of poorer citizens and subsequently leading to the closing of
      cinemas across the country.
    

      According to census records, the population of Poland was just over twenty-seven million in 1921. Nearly
      one-third belonged to non-Polish minorities. When the final borders were drawn in 1923, Poland stretched from
      Poznań and Katowice in the west, Zakopane and Drohobych in the south, Białystok in the east, and Vilnius in the
      north. Present-day Gdańsk became the Free City of Danzig. Ukrainians (approximately four million people) and
      Belarusans (approximately one and a half million people) inhabited much of the eastern lands, speaking their own
      languages and aspiring to national independence. Among the Ukrainian lands, the desire for independence was so
      strong that violence between Poles and Ukrainians was commonplace. Ukrainians and Belarusans did not hold
      positions in the Polish government, universities, or other professional offices.
    

      In May 1926, an armed coup led by Piłsudski replaced democratic institutions with authoritarianism. Piłsudski,
      who took the position of minister of war instead of president, was determined to rule with a heavy hand. He
      called his program of reform sanacja, or purification. His regime brought much-needed economic stability
      to the region in the late 1920s, which was reflected in the golden age of silent film production. However, the
      crash of the New York Stock Exchange and the ensuing Great Depression in the United States took their toll on the
      Polish economy in the early 1930s. The Polish economic depression and Piłsudski's growing intolerance of
      opposition were obstacles to filmmaking, as they were to other social and cultural endeavors. To some, Piłsudski
      was Poland's savior; to others, he was a dictator with no tolerance for political opposition. Adolf Hitler's rise
      to power in Germany heightened tensions between the neighboring states, which the signing of the Polish-German
      Non-Aggression Pact in January 1934 did not altogether alleviate. More changes came with Piłsudski's death in
      June 1935, when arguments and accusations broke out over the relevance of his regime. After an initial period of
      general reluctance to participate in elections and in public life, minorities, conservatives, socialists, and
      other groups engaged in fierce battles in the political arena. Even as the country regained economic stability in
      the late 1930s, it lacked social and political stability.
    

A lively café culture and literary movement known simply as "the twenty years
      between the wars" took shape (dwudziestolecie międzywojenne) as a refuge from this chaos. The
      enthusiastic, optimistic poets associated with the literary magazine Skamander inaugurated this era with
      their gatherings at Warsaw's Café Ziemiańska. After them, in the capital and, to a lesser extent, in the
      country's major cities, energetic writers and artists gathered in informal literary-artistic associations to
      search for new means of expression. They did not have to look further than out the windows of the cafés—on the
      same stretch of Marszałkowska Street in Warsaw that hosted the most sophisticated of cafés were the cinemas. Some
      recognized a potential new art form in the films shown at these cinemas, others repudiated them, and still others
      viewed them with ambivalence.
    

      Any study of cinema requires deep attention to the processes of inclusion and exclusion. How does one account for
      the fact that cinema is concurrently an international commodity and a national product? How does one account for
      regional differences in cinema production and exhibition? The tendency has long been to draw the line along the
      languages chosen for production and, within these boundaries, to consider the influences of the major world
      centers of production on filmmaking in the smaller centers and to trace the influence of immigrants from smaller
      centers on works from major ones. Cinema in Poland, then, has become Polish cinema, Yiddish cinema, Ukrainian
      cinema, and Lithuanian cinema. Because of the great care that scholars have shown to avoid ingesting the cultural
      products of neighboring countries, it has become Russian and German cinema to a lesser degree. As a result,
      certain cinematic events have disappeared entirely from the history books.
    

      This book attempts to recapture the multilingualism and social diversity of cinema in the partitioned lands and
      independent Poland and to show that the establishment of a national identity through film is a complicated matter
      in which oppositional principles were only sometimes at play. To this end, it accepts all films, regardless of
      language, made in the regions of the three empires that later became an independent country and, thereafter, in
      that country. It avoids mention of the careers of filmmakers, actors, and others outside of this geographic area
      because of space constraints and the inevitable judgments concerning loyalty to the nation that such mention
      entails. Instead, this book is concerned with the activity that took place in a certain region at a certain time.
      As it challenges established models of the region's national cinemas, it
      creates a new framework for the study of film production and exhibition in early, silent, and early sound cinema.
      At the same time, this project seeks to expose and analyze an enduring ambivalence to a language-based national
      cinema and a unique belief in the communicative properties of images in Poland. Using Irzykowski's "law of the
      looking glass" as its starting point, it locates these characteristics in the privileging of visual imagery over
      dialogue by film directors, producers, distributors, critics, and audiences in every stage of the industry's
      development during the first four decades of cinema.
    










1
    

      The First Films, 1896-1908
    

      Itinerant Exhibitors: Lumière in the Austro-Hungarian, Prussian, and Russian Empires
    

      THE TRAVELING EXHIBITORS WHO INTRODUCED motion pictures to the area eventually brought their demonstrations to
      all the main cities of the partitioned lands and to many of the small towns as well. Various factors influenced
      their choice of routes and stopping places. Railway lines allowed the exhibitors to move among the small towns
      along the routes from Warsaw to other cities in the Russian Empire and the Kingdom of Prussia. Rail connections
      in the eastern part of the Russian partition were less substantial, however, and poorly maintained links to
      Kraków, L'viv, and other towns of the former commonwealth hindered travel. Electrification, too, came about only
      gradually. Inhabitants of cities in the Prussian partition were receiving limited benefits from electricity by
      the end of the nineteenth century, while the process took even longer in the cities of the Russian and
      Austro-Hungarian partitions. Lights came on slowly in the countryside of each region. Local variations in
      population and wealth likely influenced exhibitors' opportunities, as well. Urbanization opened possibilities for
      exhibition to larger audiences. Warsaw and its suburbs, for example, experienced immense growth between 1890 and
      1910, when their total population climbed to almost one million. Levels of wealth were lowest in Galicia and
      highest in Prussia.1
      Moreover, although higher levels of education accompanied urbanization, literacy spread slowly. In 1897, Warsaw's
      illiteracy rate of 41 percent among men and 51 percent among women was lower than the rates in other large cities
      (in Łódź, for example, 55 percent among men and 66 percent among women), and much lower than the 69.5 percent
      overall rate in the Russian Empire.2




        An advertisement for an early demonstration of the Cinématographe. Biblioteka Narodowa
      


      The first demonstrations of "a theater of live photography" took place in Warsaw at the end of 1895 and the
      beginning of 1896, when Thomas Alva Edison's Kinetoscope (or, perhaps, a counterfeit version of it) appeared
      first on Niecała Street and next in the Panopticum on Krakowskie Przedmieście Street.3 In July of that year, exhibitors lured audiences
      to an enormous ballroom and meeting space on Krakowskie Przedmieście Street with a (presumably counterfeit) copy
      of Louis and Auguste Lumière's patented Cinématographe, an apparatus constructed to record, print, and project
      films that had been demonstrated for the first time in Paris in 1895. They chose images of people walking along
      the street, a fire engine in operation, dancers, and cat pranks for this first demonstration. This makeshift
      cinematograph disappointed the Warsaw patrons, who complained that the presentation was of poor quality and that
      its exhibitors were not organized or competent in handling the new technology. The viewers also remarked that it
      was unoriginal in light of other inventions of the time. One commentator writing in Kurier warszawski
      (Warsaw Courier) in 1896 claims that the invention
    

would have been awe-inspiring, if in the age of telephones and phonographs
      there could be anything awe-inspiring. It is the cinematograph, a combination of photography and electricity.
      . . . The thing is unusual in itself, very interesting and worthy of admiration, but the apparatus, which is
      operated by a Warsaw entrepreneur, does not work properly. Because we are not able to compare, we cannot, of
      course, conclude whether this is the fault of the still imperfect idea, or the apparatus itself, which acquainted
      us yesterday with a solution to the problem of movement.4


      In L'viv, Galicia, entrepreneurs presented the first program of short films in September 1896. It is not clear
      whether the equipment featured Edison's Vitascope, Kinetoscope, or a counterfeit, although the last is most
      probable.5 According to
      historian Andrzej Urbańczyk, the first exhibition included a separate demonstration of a related invention, the
      phonograph. The performances took place in the Grand Hotel and at a hostel for workers located in the same
      section of the city. Underscoring the dubious aspects of this presentation, the program advertised an unlikely
      slate of films that combined, for example, the Edison Company's Chinese Laundry Scene (1894) and
      Annabelle Serpentine Dance (1894) with the Lumière production L'Arrivée d'un train à La Ciotat
      (Arrival of a Train at La Ciotat, 1895).6 Accounts of the first screenings give the impression that audiences arrived pessimistic,
      skeptical, and certain that the presentation would be second-rate, and they received no surprises. Writing some
      thirty-four years later, novelist Juliusz Kadren-Bandrowski recalls one of the first demonstrations in the city:
      "Some people said during the intermission that in spite of everything, the show would probably not make it to the
      end because, eventually, something must go wrong. Still others were certain that it all had to be some kind of
      false imitation and, sooner or later, it would turn out to be a devilish hoax."7


      On November 14, 1896, the first demonstration of the patented Cinématographe took place in Kraków's Community
      Theater. The Galician city of Kraków—home to fewer than a hundred thousand people at the turn of the twentieth
      century—supported one of the most active theatrical traditions, including traditional stage theater, magic
      lantern shows, and demonstrations of other cerebral curiosities, in the partitioned lands. Lumière exhibitor
      Eugène Joachim DuPont brought the Cinématographe to Kraków from Vienna and advertised the demonstration in a
      local newspaper, Czas (Time). He re-created the program of twelve short films that had been shown during
      the famous first demonstration of the apparatus at the Grand Café in Paris eleven months earlier. It included, among others, Repas de bébé (1895), L'Arrivée d'un train à La
      Ciotat, La Charcuterie mécanique (1895), Arroseur arrosé (1895), and Quarrelle enfantine
      (1896). So successful was the process this time that, after its solo premiere, the short films were added to the
      end of regular theater performances as a bonus for audiences. The program changed often, and projections were not
      regular; but in December 1896 and sporadically throughout 1897, around forty short films were shown in
      Kraków.8 Additions to the
      program included Partie d'écarté (1895), Photographe (1895), Dragons traversant la Saône à
      la nage (1896), Enfants pêchant des crevettes (1896), Démolition d'un mur (1896), and
      Les Bains de Diane à Milan (1896). The virtual itinerary of the Kraków audiences included Madrid, Paris,
      Milan, Tyrol, and London, but nowhere outside western Europe. Although the quality of the projections was poor,
      reviewers expressed the astonishment and intrigue that audiences felt when they saw moving images of trains,
      people, and, especially, ocean waves.
    

      Demonstrations of the Cinématographe soon followed in other cities in the partitioned lands, including Poznań in
      the Kingdom of Prussia and Warsaw in the Russian Empire. In the Russian partition, demonstrations took place in
      storefronts and restaurants. The railway that connected Warsaw to smaller towns in the region connected it to
      western European cities, as well, making the city a rest stop for many traveling entrepreneurs. Because it was
      relatively large and easily accessible, Warsaw was the most logical place for the new industry to take root.
      Although urban theaters and cafés held exhibitions, many shows took place in outdoor venues, such as the circus,
      during the warm season. According to film historians Władysław Banaszkiewicz and Witold Witczak, projections were
      held at twilight during almost every summer event in Warsaw at the turn of the century.9


      The history of cinema in the small city of Bydgoszcz in the Kingdom of Prussia offers an exceptional opportunity
      to reflect upon issues of film, language, politics, and cultural identity. Scholars know little about the first
      exhibitions in Bydgoszcz. Although it is clear that itinerant exhibitors appeared in the city in April 1897, the
      names of those first exhibitors and the titles of films shown in the first programs are unavailable—but
      information on traveling exhibitors in small cities and towns is always difficult to find. What makes Bydgoszcz
      interesting is its character as a meeting point for Polish and German cultures. The majority of people in
      Bydgoszcz at the turn of the twentieth century spoke German and identified with the cultures to the west rather
      than those to the east, even though Poles considered the city an inseparable
      part of Polish national identity. Not surprisingly, residents may have had a perspective on the subjects of
      itinerant exhibitors' programs that differed from that of residents of other cities.
    

      In Filmowa Bydgoszcz, 1896-1939 (Filmic Bydgoszcz, 1896-1939), Mariusz Guzek suggests that the
      beginnings of a local film culture can be found in the photographic exhibits at the Kaiser Panorama located on
      Fryderykowska Street (now Marszałka Focha Street). Guzek explains that through the subjects of these exhibits—he
      cites Constantinople, the Rhine Valley, Cyprus, and Syria as examples—the residents of Bydgoszcz grew accustomed
      to seeing photographic representations of different parts of the world on a regular basis. He writes, "Still
      images, just like the later live photographs, affected the imagination, satisfied the curiosity associated with
      the unattainable spheres of life, and supplied entertainment."10 Guzek notes that the central location of the first projections
      of the Kinetoscope (or Vitascope) in a hall on Berlinerstrasse (now Świętej Trójcy Street) was chosen on purpose,
      as it was one of the few public places in Bydgoszcz visited by both Poles and Germans.
    

      While the Lumière brothers' films took center stage in the Russian Empire, American picture shows made their way
      through the partitioned lands in the Kingdom of Prussia. Zygmunt Pogorzelski, a Polish exhibitor, showed the
      Lumières' L'Arrivée d'un train à La Ciotat for the first time only in 1902 at an outdoor festival on the
      outskirts of Bydgoszcz (where a majority of the town's Polish inhabitants lived).11 The reason for this division may lie with
      historical ties dating to the Romantic period between speakers of the Polish and French languages in the Russian
      Empire, which made French films attractive, and with a long-standing struggle for power between speakers of the
      Polish and German languages in the Prussian partition, which led Polish speakers to shun German films. Linguistic
      and cultural affinities—or antipathies—thus reflected political alliances and rivalries. That these
      political-linguistic relationships affected even the earliest exhibitions of silent films shows the extent to
      which early exhibitors regarded cinema as an international business venture based as much on established
      political practices as on creative entrepreneurship and a sense of adventure. From the outset, exhibitors found
      themselves—willingly or not—part of the political landscape.
    

      During the five years that followed the debut of the Cinématographe in Kraków, entrepreneurs moved from town to
      town throughout the partitions to offer demonstrations of their short films. In
      this time of actualités (short nonfiction films, such as travelogues, sports films, and news event
      films), reenactments, short fictionalized historical films, and one-act comedies, programs inevitably varied from
      town to town. The first traveling exhibitors had much autonomy with regard to the order of the films shown in
      their programs. They added title cards in the languages that they saw fit as well as sound or music when they
      deemed it appropriate. Films often complemented theatrical or technological attractions. These traveling
      entrepreneurs (as well as those whom they employed as additional entertainment) were often circus managers or
      performers, illusionists, magicians, or mimes, though some ambitious early filmmakers such as Bolesław
      Matuszewski arranged projections of their own work. As film historian Stanisław Janicki claims, spaces for their
      demonstrations "started to sprout like mushrooms after the rain."12 Until 1903, most of the venues were temporary, but the few
      permanent optical entertainment centers hinted at the future shape of the industry. As in many of the first
      demonstrations in Kraków, the traveling exhibitions of "live pictures" were usually additions to other
      presentations such as live theater or magic lantern shows.13


      Generally, exhibitors chose a venue, set up the equipment, collected a small entrance fee from spectators (or
      demanded a part of the fee collected for entrance into the other parts of the spectacle), projected short films
      for around twenty minutes, dismantled the equipment, and moved on. Permanent cinemas had yet to be established.
      However, audiences could count on seeing short films at a few regular venues throughout the region. In Łódź,
      brothers Władysław and Antoni Krzemiński projected Lumière films at their Gabinet Iluzji and offered a space,
      called the Bioscop, to traveling vendors in need of a storefront to rent. Also in Łódź, regular projections of
      the "Edison cinematograph" were held in Helenów, a once-private park that had been offering access to a
      waterfall, playground, restaurant, candy store, and theater to paying visitors since the late 1880s. In a large
      concert hall in the park, the first projection using a Lumière apparatus took place on June 11, 1897. Audiences
      saw half-hour programs consisting of eight Lumière short films featuring coronations, royal parades, and other
      events from western Europe.14 According to film historians Hanna Krajewska and Stanisław Janicki, a locale for motion
      picture demonstrations might have been opened in a former restaurant at 120 Piotrkowska Street in Łódź in
      1899.15


In Poznań, exhibitors regularly held projections at a popular restaurant owned
      by Leon Mettler. A successful entrepreneur, Franciszek Józef Oeser, opened the first storefront cinema in L'viv,
      the Teatr Elektryczny. According to Urbańczyk, Kraków, too, had a Teatr Elektryczny that advertised the novelty
      of electricity along with cinema as late as the summer of 1905, long after electricity had ceased to be a
      revelation in many European cities. It announced, "Electric people and electric animals! Tigers, lions,
      elephants! Everything that lives fights on the electric canvas. People walk and dance. Director Oeser transforms
      into an electric person on the screen in front of the public's eyes!"16


      Władysław and Antoni Krzemiński ran a permanent cinema at 4 Nowy Rynek Street in Łódź, which held forty-minute
      projections of short film programs from 1901 until 1903. Teatr żywych fotografii, as they called it, was
      equipped with an imported projector from Paris. Krajewska describes it as a three-room space—with an entry room,
      viewing room, and projection room—on the first floor of a building next to a candy store. The entry room, adorned
      with stereoscopes, functioned as both ticket booth and waiting room. The viewing room held thirty seats (priced
      according to proximity to the screen) and standing room for sixty, though twice this number generally crowded
      into it.17


      Within a decade, almost every major city in the region had a permanent motion picture theater. The extravagant,
      Secession-style Teatr Elizeum-Palais d'Illusion in Warsaw, with room for four hundred people, was one such venue.
      Its repertoire included films by the first local filmmaker, Kazimierz Prószyński, in 1902. According to film
      historians Małgorzata Hendrykowska and Marek Hendrykowski, restaurateur Mettler dedicated one of his properties
      in the so-called Promenade Park in Poznań to motion picture projections beginning in December 1903.18 Permanent motion picture theaters
      were opened in Kraków and L'viv in 1906; in Toruń and Vilnius in 1907; in Bydgoszcz, Częstochowa, and Lublin in
      1908; in Przemyśl in 1910; and in Rzeszów and Tarnów in 1911, although cinema in the partitions remained a
      predominately outdoor event for several more years.19


      Small, permanent theaters specialized not only in motion pictures but also in vaudeville, cabaret, and other
      popular forms of entertainment. Only the largest cities could support extravagant theaters; in most places,
      motion picture theaters were still located in storefronts or freestanding cabins, designated only by a generic
      sign, well into the twentieth century. Ticket prices and ambience ranged from
      inexpensive and informal to expensive and formal, depending on the venue, the number of acts in the repertoire,
      the anticipated spending power of the crowd, and the size of the town (as well as the general economic situation
      of the given empire). Krajewska notes that a ticket to the cinema in Łódź before 1906 cost between twenty and
      thirty kopecks, while a ticket to the symphony cost fifty kopecks, and a pound of sugar cost thirteen
      kopecks.20 The failure of
      most attempts to create lavish, permanent places of entertainment on the model of the Elizeum is likely
      attributable to customers' inability or unwillingness to pay higher ticket prices.
    

      Between stints at these urban venues, traveling entrepreneurs visited small towns. They announced their shows
      with newspaper advertisements (concentrating on the novelty of the invention rather than the films
      themselves)21 and
      handbills, which they distributed to workers. The Krzemiński brothers, for example, handed out approximately
      fifty thousand handbills to inform people of upcoming shows each week.22 The smaller the venue, the more likely it was that the
      entrepreneurs would call their demonstrations "circuses" rather than the more urbane "theater." Style and quality
      of facilities varied, as well. Traveling entrepreneurs often had to rent small stores, where they projected the
      short films and arranged the crowds in the best way that they could. Even in the more stable venues, such as the
      Krzemińskis' Bioscop, building conditions could interrupt the flow of spectators. As one story goes, spectators
      at Bioscop had to leave the building through a window after the show. On another occasion, an exhibitor acted as
      both ticket seller and projectionist. When he was ready to project the films from his makeshift cubicle, he
      locked the door behind the spectators, trapping them inside the building.23


      From the beginning, exhibitors situated permanent motion picture theaters near other, similar establishments to
      form entertainment districts. In Warsaw, the main entertainment district was located in the city center, on and
      around Marszałkowska, Nowy Świat, and Krakowskie Przedmieście streets. A few cinemas opened outside this area, as
      well. Most notably, the Kak w Paryże was located in the center of a mainly Jewish residential district on Dzika
      Street. The name of the theater (As in Paris) was Russian, but it was advertised using the Latin
      alphabet,24 and its patrons
      were most likely Yiddish speakers. How much did language matter to audiences? Apparently, it mattered less in
      Warsaw than in cities in the Kingdom of Prussia, such as Bydgoszcz and Poznań, where the choice of language used
      in exhibition, as in other aspects of cultural life, was a more politically charged issue.
    

In her study of cinema in the Polish lands before 1908, Hendrykowska finds that
      early cinema had become associated with fairs, magic shows, and low forms of entertainment. The word
      jarmark, which she associates with early cinema, literally means "trash" or "kitsch" but also refers to
      the fairgrounds where the exhibitions took place. As she points out, the idea that cinema offered entertainment
      only for a public that needed and liked kitsch corresponds with images of fairgrounds in the contemporary media.
      She writes, "The fundamental mistake made in this interpretation has several causes. One of them is the
      acceptance of exclusively aesthetic criteria of value (and these are contemporary criteria) and, at the same
      time, the omission of the elements of information and knowledge that motion pictures brought with them." She
      claims that in the search for elements of kitsch in early cinema, its broader historical and social-cultural
      context is lost. Within this broader context, cinema before 1908 is "a new element in the spiritual life of the
      human being, which—although this may sound somewhat pompous—influences the character of human nature."25


      Hendrykowska gives several reasons for the presence of motion pictures at the fair. She claims that live
      photography found itself in the circus as an extension of pantomime, an element of the traditional circus program
      that was being phased out because of its expense. She also points out its attractiveness as a new invention and
      notes that motion pictures disappeared from circus programs in 1905, as circus audiences began to tire of their
      novelty.26 Jarmark and
      early cinema shared a tendency toward spectacle and shock rather than narrative. However, she differentiates film
      programs from other forms of entertainment presented at the fairgrounds. She writes, "Both the jarmark and the
      cinema offered spectators a certain product—but each of a somewhat different character. The jarmark always
      shocked with foreignness and exploited incomprehensible occurrences, which were inconceivable, strange, and
      horrible at the same time for the patron of its booths." In jarmark entertainments, it was the content that
      produced astonishment; in cinema, it was the new medium itself that aroused wonder. The true product of the
      cinema, then, was to Hendrykowska the film rather than the cinematic apparatus, which, though not strange or
      horrible, was foreign and inconceivable at first. "From the very beginning," however, "cinema moved in the
      direction of experiences that were shared by all people. Audiences were shown workers leaving a factory, a
      child's breakfast, the Russo-Japanese War, a blacksmith at work, plazas in Paris, and the sea's waves crashing on
      the shore. Unlike the jarmark, it was 'truthful,' timely, and understandable.
      Because of these characteristics, it fulfilled an integrating function on a scale that extended far beyond the
      walls of the first cinemas. Could the fairground's entertainment capture the minds, hearts, and mass imagination
      of people to the same extent that cinema did?"27


      If early cinema performed an integrating function, which other such spectacles did it resemble? Did it gather
      audiences for entertainment, for education, for an alternative to legitimate theater, or for all of these? This
      is a question that no scholar of early cinema may avoid and one of the most difficult to answer, in no small part
      because the answer differs from region to region. At the root of the problem is the relationship of cinema to
      modernity, which swept over the continents at a pace less even than that of the Cinématographe. In partitioned
      Poland, consideration of cinema as entertainment or in comparison to the popular garden theater (or outdoor stage
      theater) allows scholars to speculate about the gender, class, and ethnicity of its spectators. There is
      evidence, for example, that the garden theater attracted a cross section of the population, and it may be the
      case that a similarly broad segment of the population attended the early cinema projections. Hendrykowska is
      concerned here with a different function of early cinema, however. She writes, "By illustrating the press,
      photography always created an impression of second-hand information. Film created the illusion that one was
      participating in the observed events oneself."28


      Were viewers, then, participating in modernity? Hendrykowska continues, "In its first decade, cinema fulfilled
      viewers' cognitive needs to a great extent. It provided much more intensive, deeper informational
      stimuli about the world than did the newspaper. And so film . . . was not only kitschy entertainment but also an
      inexpensive way to kill free time, an artificial paradise that served to deform the true colors of the everyday."
      There are at least three aspects of modernity at stake here: the modern, technological apparatus that replaces
      the newspaper, the urban construct of leisure time, and the knowledge of the relationship between modernity and
      nationhood itself, which audiences perceive when they see the true colors of the everyday contrasted with the
      screen image. Hendrykowska concludes, "Today almost every child knows how the skyscrapers of New York, the canals
      of Venice, and the plazas of Paris look. At that time, viewers—most often those who had never stuck their noses
      beyond the borders of the local dive bar in their entire lives—saw these for
      the first time. I think that films were often the source of information about the world for them."29


      A lack of sources prevents the researcher from determining positively what the first audiences took from the
      projections. However, it might be useful to consider Hendrykowska's ideas in the context of the relationship
      between modernity and nationhood. What might people in a stateless nation of Europe have seen in the first
      foreign films? Would they have been awed by the skyscrapers of New York or by the possibility of finding work on
      the docks? Would they have been transfixed by the canals of Venice or by thoughts of the Polish Legion in Italy?
      Did they search the images of the plazas of Paris for their expatriate cousins?
    

      If early cinema was a source of information about the world beyond the partitions, the lessons that it gave about
      that world may have been hard to swallow. One piece of evidence of audiences' sophisticated viewing practices
      comes from Włodzimierz Perzyński's 1908 correspondence from Paris, "The Triumph of the Cinematograph." In it,
      Perzyński relates, "Just a week after the funeral of King Carlos, I was able to watch it in one of the little
      theaters on the Grand Boulevard. And as an aside, this living picture convinced me more than all of the articles
      and telegrams that the people of Lisbon were not all worried about the tragic death of their leader, who had
      insisted on their reputation as happy Portuguese citizens for his entire life only to find that they were not
      always happy."30 For
      Perzyński, cinema was a means of obtaining the truth, but less the truth of national symbols than the truth of
      what these symbols masked.
    

      What is certain is that the short films presented by itinerant exhibitors in the partitioned lands influenced the
      political and cultural reality of the day. The most famous example comes from Stephen Bottomore's 1984 article,
      "Dreyfus and Documentary." Bottomore's findings that itinerant exhibitor Francis Doublier was able to dupe Jewish
      patrons of motion picture exhibitions in the Russian partition in 1898 demonstrate that the emotional impact of
      motion pictures may have lasted much longer than their initial impressions. Through a montage of images, Doublier
      made it appear that Captain Alfred Dreyfus was landing on Devil's Island. Doublier showed his films for several
      months, until one audience member pointed out that there had been no cinema in 1894 when the Dreyfus affair had
      occurred.31 It is possible,
      too, that the emotional effects of film were exaggerated by the accompanying music and sound effects or by the practice of hiring barkers (lecturers), who explained the plot and
      provided dialogue for the projected images. However, there is no evidence that barkers enjoyed significant
      popularity in the partitioned lands, and exhibitors added film music only gradually in the first decade.
    

      Who were the first audiences? Records of the earliest traveling exhibitors state that they saw their audiences as
      workers and small business owners. What does this mean, though? Because of regional differences in the growth of
      working-class political movements, Polish nationals in the Russian Empire were more likely to identify with this
      description than were Polish nationals in the largely agrarian domains of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, but even
      within the eastern lands a sense of a working class was not ubiquitous before the 1905 Russian Revolution. Where
      did the traveling exhibitors imagine that their rural customers worked? Did "small business" indicate farms,
      shops, or both? In their respective accounts of the period, scholar Stanisław Janicki and cinema owner Antoni
      Krzemiński give different answers. Janicki writes, "Cinema was entertainment for the masses, while intellectuals
      and the bourgeoisie rather avoided this refuge."32 Krzemiński, on the other hand, recalls that "90 percent of the audience was from the
      working or skilled-trade class and the other 10 percent from the theater-going public, who went to the newly
      opened Bioscop in disguise, embarrassed, and under the impression that it was not a suitable place for their
      entertainment."33


      Stefania Beylin writes, "Crowds, mainly juvenile boys curious about the moving images, who saw in them some kind
      of magic, gathered at the first short films. That same audience had come there before in order to watch the
      so-called disappearing pictures—the magic lantern that showed scenes from Paris, Rome, the seaside, and a
      waterfall—in a large hall (in which there had once been a riding school). Compared to the new invention, what not
      long before had seemed so attractive now lost its charm. Those images were immobile, and the public, particularly
      school-age youth, demanded movement."34


      In other sections, describing the social makeup of the first cinema crowds, both Krzemiński and Beylin mention
      the presence of people with a connection to the theater; but for the former, these people were theater audiences,
      while for the latter, they were actors. Where Krzemiński saw workers and skilled tradespeople, Beylin saw
      schoolboys. Moreover, who were the intellectuals? Were they the actors or regular theater attendees? Did
      agriculturalists attend the cinema at a different time of day than tradespeople?
    

The few mentions of audience demographics attest to the presence of
      certain social groups, but there is little evidence that only certain social groups attended the cinema.
      There is not enough information available for it to be stated with any degree of certainty that the working class
      enjoyed cinema more than the intellectual class. First, in the relatively less industrialized cities of the
      partitions, the working class may have been little more than an invention of ideologues or mistaken traveling
      entrepreneurs, who associated certain dress and mannerisms with the working classes in their native cities.
      Second, in a society in which only 2 percent of the population completed higher education and in which the
      inteligencja remained relatively small, intellectuals in all of the partitioned lands necessarily
      constituted a minority.
    

      Could it be the case that people of all ages and classes attended the cinema? Perhaps Józef Jedlicz (Kopuściński)
      gives the most accurate assessment in 1924, when he writes, "Everyone—well-wishers and naysayers, the bothered
      and the indifferent—gave in to irresistible temptation and went to the cinema. Some went more often, others less
      often, but we can say with certainty that almost everyone went. The elderly went, and the young went; the masses
      and the spiritual aristocracy went; the intellectuals, the illiterate, and the semiliterate; the refined dame,
      the chambermaid, and the servant; the landowner, the worker, the university professor, and the
      priest."35 In the first
      years of traveling cinema, many people went whenever and wherever they could. They slipped into the rented
      storefronts or gathered at outdoor festivals to relish the novelty. Cinema might have been a social event for the
      working youth, an art form for the inteligencja, and a curiosity for everyone. By all accounts, people
      congregated at the sole theater established (sometimes with government support) in each small town or shtetl, or
      in the theaters of each large city in order to watch silent films. At this time, audiences were not as segregated
      by language as they would be several years later. Projection of Polish-language intertitles onto foreign films
      did not begin until 1908.
    

      Perhaps because of the paucity of sources, little research has been done on spectatorship or audience
      awareness—how audiences comprehended what they saw on the screen—in Poland. The types of features produced and
      the recorded responses of nonprofessionals to them suggest that people looked to the cinema for entertainment as
      well as advances in technology. They also celebrated newcomers to the industry, particularly movie stars. To a
      certain extent, they supported the nation-building process through attendance at patriotic historical films and by championing the cause of domestic film production. However, they
      also may have gone to the cinema as an escape, as demonstrated in the excitement that nonprofessional
      critics—mainly poets, both distinguished and amateur—expressed about the darkened rooms in which audience members
      became anonymous. Many people, regardless of social class, gender, and education, probably appreciated the
      accessibility and lack of pretension of the cinema. As philosopher Marian Stępowski writes in 1914, "The secret
      to cinema's success really lies in this: it is easily and inexpensively available, and you can enter and exit the
      auditorium at any moment without even the obligation of taking off your overcoat."36 For early audience members, cinema was relatively
      inexpensive, pleasant, and hassle-free. Audiences also may have found it an entertaining way of learning about
      themselves, distant lands, and exciting cultures. Still, because these generalizations do not take into account
      the broad range of professional, social, and religious backgrounds that people brought with them to the cinema in
      Poland, they are not sufficient to constitute a serious study of changes in audience composition over time in the
      different cities and regions of the nation.
    

      Early Film Production and Distribution
    

      During the first ten years of moving picture exhibition in partitioned Poland, repertoires originated mainly in
      other countries. Only a few creative individuals were interested in doing more than simply importing the new
      medium. Among the first inventors of film equipment in Poland were Piotr Lebiedziński, Jan and Józef Popławski,
      and Kazimierz Prószyński. Among the first producers were Bolesław Matuszewski and Prószyński, whose Pleograf is
      synonymous with both a camera-projector of his invention and Warsaw's first film production company. The number
      of people involved in turn-of-the-century film production was limited—so much so that these five pioneers of
      early cinema constituted the film industry in Poland through 1905. They imitated and attempted to improve upon
      the apparatuses built by others, with the ultimate goal of marketing their own equipment regionally. The sense of
      "too little, too late" that surrounded their work lingered throughout most of the era with regard to
      technological developments in filmmaking and projection equipment.
    

The five film pioneers in the partitioned lands achieved some remarkable
      accomplishments. The Popławski brothers, working with Lebiedziński, built a Zooskop Uniwersalny, with which they
      recorded scenes on glass plates in the mid-1890s. The individual contributions of Lebiedziński include the
      construction of prototypes for motion picture cameras and the manufacture of paper for photographic purposes.
      Supporting himself with a camera store and photochemical laboratory in Warsaw, Lebiedziński also developed a
      bulky two-camera system to take and project motion pictures, which he used to make very short films in 1895 or
      1896. Documentary and comedy, these short films featured actors from popular garden theater productions.
      Lebiedziński continued to serve as adviser and vendor to filmmakers until the end of his life.
    

      Kazimierz Prószyński, the son of a successful Warsaw photographer, was educated as an engineer in Belgium but
      began working on the development of live photography in his mid-twenties. He created the first model of his
      camera-projector—first called the Kinematograf Uniwersalny, then the Pleograf, and then the BioPleograf before it
      came to be known permanently by its second name—between 1894 and 1896 in Warsaw. In 1898 and 1899, he began
      offering public demonstrations of his invention.
    

      The Pleograf was considered more than a new form of entertainment; reviewers hailed it as a victory for the
      educational, public, and private life of the nation. Tygodnik ilustrowany (Illustrated Weekly) called it
      less an object for play than a device for scientific education.37 An anonymous reporter for a small Polish-language periodical
      published in the Prussian partition, Gazeta toruńska (Toruń Gazette) describes a demonstration of the
      Pleograf: "The camera functioned very lightly and exactly. In general, one may decide that this invention is a
      finished thing that does not need improvement. Because of its low cost, the camera is very well suited to use by
      amateurs. It will not be long before every family will be able to own a similar camera and to make enduring live
      portraits of their loved ones together with their various facial expressions."38 The editors of Kurier warszawski found that the
      Pleograf was simpler and quieter, functioned more easily, and allowed more exact movement of the film through the
      camera than did the Cinématographe.39


      Prószyński put the Pleograf to use in Warsaw's first production company, also called Pleograf, which he founded
      in late 1901 or early 1902. Between then and its closing in 1903, the company managed to complete and exhibit at
      least thirteen productions averaging two hundred to three hundred meters in
      length. These included actualités documenting ambulance runs, horse races, sledding in Warsaw parks, and a summer
      concert of the philharmonic, as well as the one-shot fiction film Powrót birbanta (The Return of the
      Merry Fellow, 1902) and Walkirie (The Valkyries, 1903), part of a live performance of Richard Wagner's
      opera. A comedy, The Return of the Merry Fellow, featured actor Kazimierz Junosza-Stępowski as a young
      man attempting to walk home after an evening of heavy drinking. Prószyński took advantage of every opportunity to
      project his films, appearing at such events as a Festival of the Association for the Care of the Terminally Ill
      in Warsaw and an agricultural exhibition in Vilnius. Audiences could watch all of his films at the Teatr
      Elizeum-Palais d'Illusion on Karowa Street and his short documentaries in a theater in the Ogród Saski in spring
      1902. Eventually, the difficulty of obtaining high-quality celluloid and the camera's constant malfunctioning
      turned entrepreneurs away from the Pleograf. In spite of its lower cost, Prószyński's Pleograf was never able to
      replace the imported systems. Prószyński's status as a Warsaw intellectual helped him little when it came to
      finding support for his inventions, which most people in his community ignored or belittled because they saw them
      as less technologically advanced than foreign inventions. More importantly, audiences soon grew bored with
      Pleograf films. Uninterested in short films about daily life in their own city and unwilling to support
      Prószyński in his creative endeavors, they rejected his work and, eventually, convinced him to leave the
      partitioned lands. Potential business partners may have avoided him because of his reputation for lax management
      of finances and unwillingness to consider the prospect of material gain. Most likely, though, his failures had a
      lot to do with his attitude toward serving his nation. In writing Prószyński's biography, Władysław Jewsiewicki
      found that he was known for his aversion to what he considered lofty nationalist slogans.40 Pleograf folded in 1903, but
      Prószyński continued to work on his inventions in Belgium, England, and France. For example, he attempted to make
      and exhibit sound film through use of the gramophone. His experiments took place in London between 1908 and 1912,
      during the period when Léon Gaumont and Thomas Edison were developing their own picture-sound synchronization
      techniques, and resulted in the invention of the Photophone.
    

      There is little evidence of filmmaking outside of Warsaw. Most likely, the first film with a Polish title made in
      L'viv was W kawiarni lwowskiej (In a L'viv Café), which premiered in that city in June 1897. According
      to Dobrochna Dabert, a second film titled Odsłonięcie pomnika Adama
      Mickiewicza we Lwowie (Unveiling the Adam Mickiewicz Statue in L'viv) was also registered; Władysław
      Mickiewicz (the bard's son) took part in the October 30, 1904, celebration.41 Like Warsaw in the scenes captured by Prószyński's
      Pleograf, the city of L'viv featured prominently in these films. By choosing to film the unveiling of a statue of
      Mickiewicz, the filmmakers were reflecting and celebrating the place of Polish literature in the Austro-Hungarian
      city.
    

      By 1902, filmmakers already had sketched a range of uses for the medium based on permitting audience members to
      recognize, empathize, and laugh with the figure on the screen. Establishing a national industry took some time,
      however. Although the reason for this may have been the economic impossibility of establishing in the partitioned
      lands a national film industry on a level with that of France or the United States, it also may have had as much
      to do with audiences' general distrust of Prószyński and local filmmaking in this period. According to
      Irzykowski's law of the looking glass, viewers wanted to see the events that they had experienced, but in
      abstraction from reality. Unfortunately for Prószyński, his first films offered the audience identification with
      a myriad of inconsistencies in their daily and long-term existences. They wanted something else. The law of the
      looking glass, even more than infrastructure, was at the core of a national industry. Poet Anatol Stern's
      recollection of Prószyński speaks volumes in this regard. He writes, "I still remember well a meeting and
      conversation with Kazimierz Prószyński, a pale, thin man of somewhat diabolic appearance, who contested with the
      Lumière brothers for the victor's palm in the invention of the motion picture apparatus. What's more, I have been
      always deeply convinced that if Prószyński had been born under a lucky star, then the name of his Pleograf would
      have replaced 'cinematograph,' and today, along with millions of people, we would be talking about world
      'pleography' and not 'cinematography.'"42


      For the first decade of cinema in the partitioned lands, companies in the large cities of the empires or locals
      doing business with them handled film distribution. While Berlin and Vienna presumably supplied films for the
      German and Austro-Hungarian empires, the companies of Jadwiga Golcz (called Golcz i Szalay, though Szalay's
      identity is not clear), Piotr Lebiedziński, and Julian Dreher established the first distribution networks in
      Warsaw and Łódź in 1899 to buy and sell foreign films. Golcz even organized the first exhibition of film and
      cinematic equipment in Warsaw in 1901.43 For the most part, however, the early entrepreneurs were not dependent on their services.
      They preferred to travel to larger cities such as Paris and Berlin in order to
      buy their films directly. In 1905, representatives of major foreign companies began to come to smaller cities to
      sell films and equipment, making the process easier. The relative abundance of foreign production and
      dissatisfaction with local production meant that foreign films dominated the screen at the turn of the century.
      Consequently, so did images of foreign cities and cultures.
    

      Polish-speaking residents of Poznań, as Hendrykowska has explained, understood the first film camera as an import
      from Germany. According to Hendrykowska, they associated it with claims of German technical proficiency and
      believed that it symbolized the "genius" that German nationalist movements in the area were promulgating. In the
      Prussian partition, where Polish speakers were on the whole considerably poorer than their German-speaking
      neighbors, this stereotype provoked anger and resentment. Seeing them as a form of German propaganda, Polish
      speakers kept a certain distance from German films.44 This situation was an early example of a problem that recurred throughout the pre-1939
      period: popular reception of films and technology from "foreigners"—a category that sometimes included the ethnic
      majority and sometimes ethnic minorities—depended more on contemporary politics than on quality. German and
      English films fared the worst in the patriotism disputes, even when they fared the best in terms of critical
      acclaim and financial success. For much of the period, a general rule may have been that the farther the setting
      from the Polish lands and from areas with a high concentration of Polish immigrants, the better. Scenes of life
      in Paris, Indochina, and Siam found far more acceptance than scenes of life in Berlin or Moscow, for example.
      Films from distant lands fulfilled the public's desire for information about geography, cultures, and customs;
      they did not mirror a known external reality, but appealed to audiences' desire for abstraction from the
      complexity of external reality. Scenes of daily life in other parts of the world offered an opportunity to find
      commonalities (everywhere, people wash clothes, feed children, attend funerals) and avoid differences (such as
      access to water, quality and quantity of food, life expectancy). At the same time, audiences perceived less
      threat of cultural or political manipulation from these films than from films made in neighboring countries.
    

      There were many German-language newspapers in Prussian Bydgoszcz. As unexceptional as it was, then, that the
      German-language publication Bromberger Tageblatt (Bromberg Daily) first brought the news of moving
      pictures to the residents of Bydgoszcz, the implications were far-reaching. As
      both Hendrykowska and Guzek have pointed out repeatedly, Polish-speaking residents of the area learned of the
      phenomenon of cinema in the German language. The resulting association that many Polish-speaking residents drew
      between cinema and the German Empire is rooted in the period just before the traveling exhibitors appeared.
      Cinema was, from the outset, western, inorganic, and an obstacle to self-expression partially because of the
      language in which it was first introduced to the Polish minority and because of the rural population's reliance
      on itinerant exhibitors to bring it to them. There were, of course, other reasons that do not relate directly to
      cinema. A wave of political events began in the Prussian partition in 1896, when, under pressure from Prussia,
      the local administration changed Poznań's city colors from the red and white of the former Polish flag. The next
      few years saw the names of towns and villages throughout the Prussian partition changed from Polish to German,
      and the Polish language eliminated from church services. At the same time, the Prussian government invested
      heavily in the area's infrastructure, effectively setting in motion an ongoing debate over the benefits and
      drawbacks of colonialism.45


      This debate was not limited to the Prussian partition, however. A similar situation arose in the Russian and
      Austro-Hungarian empires in areas with high concentrations of Lithuanians and Ukrainians. Piotr Wandycz writes
      that the government of Vilnius "was successful in exploiting and fanning Lithuanian antagonism to the Poles. The
      average Lithuanian thought of a Pole as a lord and class enemy, but Russian schools propagated hatred of
      everything Polish. Virtually no political counterpropaganda came from the loyalist Polish aristocracy or from the
      gentry isolated in their old-type historic patriotism. Within the church, linguistic Polish-Lithuanian friction
      multiplied as the younger clergy promoted Lithuanian national ideals."46 A small Belarusan national movement was a perceived threat to
      the Russian government, while in eastern Galicia, "[t]he political picture was changing. The Polish
      administration was willing to make cultural concessions and assumed that it would thereby gain the Ukrainians'
      gratitude. The latter viewed such concessions as a token of more to come. Consequently, they felt deceived, and
      the Poles became irritated."47 All the ethnicities in the region, including Belarusans, Germans, Jews, Lithuanians, Poles,
      and Ukrainians, who identified with at least one of the former countries saw the need to establish paradigms for
      dealing with escalating tension in all of the empires. Throughout the
      partitions and in certain other parts of the empires, mass movements of all sizes were emerging to challenge the
      dominant cultural and economic priorities. Inevitably, the language in which news of the advent of cinema was
      presented played a role in the development of film in the region.
    

      Film Theory and Practice: The Contributions of Bolesław Matuszewski
    

      In 1898, the editors of Tygodnik ilustrowany delighted in a "nice surprise for our ethnographers:
      Bolesław Matuszewski has sent his specialists around our country to take cinematographic pictures of the
      diversions, traditions, and such of our people. We can only applaud, as humanity will gain a lot from this." The
      task before Matuszewski and the motion picture apparatus was enormous. With regard to the filmmaker's proposal to
      employ film as a source of history, the Tygodnik's editors write, "As a work of the human mind, every
      literary or printed source must, from the very nature of things, be more or less reticent. Because of this,
      historical truth is relative. However, the cinematograph—unmistakably a source of, as they say, mechanical
      history—is an absolutely truthful document: the cinematograph never lies."48


      Although Matuszewski received recognition mainly for his work in Paris, he came closer than his colleague
      Prószyński did to earning the title of Polish national filmmaker. A theorist and itinerant cameraman, Matuszewski
      had an interest in the medium that reflected his concern with documentation and education. Film, he felt, was a
      tool for scientific discovery and advances in medical research, as well as a means of accurately depicting
      historical events. His ideas moved between France and the partitioned lands with greater ease than did those of
      Prószyński, perhaps because his writings refer to an undefined, warmly welcomed "truth" that he saw film
      portraying. Just as DuPont's "truth" leaped from a patent on an apparatus to a state of affairs, Matuszewski's
      "truth" traveled between surgical procedures and national history. His writings encouraged critics to describe
      the cinematograph in evocative phrases such as "mechanical history," a history in which, because all
      misunderstandings and deceits would be revealed, wrongs relating to the nation would have to be made right.
      Unlike his colleague, Matuszewski delivered his ideas in just the right places, at just the right time.
    

With his brother, Zygmunt, Matuszewski came to Warsaw from France in 1895 to
      open a photography studio on Marszałkowska Street. The studio, called Lux-Sigismond et Comp., lasted at least
      until 1908. Meanwhile, Matuszewski was traveling throughout eastern and western Europe with his motion picture
      camera; he even may have worked for the Lumière brothers in France between 1896 and 1898.49 From May to November 1897, he
      probably served as cinematographer for the Russian tsar. Of Tygodnik ilustrowany's claim that he had
      begun making ethnographic films about the customs and culture of Poland in 1898, only one bit of evidence
      remains: Matuszewski's Sceny ludowe w Polsce (Folk Scenes in Poland), projected in July 1898, is likely
      the first ethnographic film made in the partitioned lands.50 His most notable achievement in film production was in the
      field of medical documentation. While working in the Russian Empire, he filmed several medical procedures in
      Saint Petersburg and Warsaw, including leg amputations, surgically assisted births, and therapeutic treatments
      for involuntary movements associated with diseases of the nervous system. He showed these and other images
      publicly in Warsaw in the late 1890s. These films make Matuszewski an early—if not the earliest—medical and
      scientific filmmaker as well as a prominent contributor to early nonfiction film in the partitioned lands.
    

      Because Polish film thought is heavily invested in the notion of collective memory, it generally traces its own
      origins to Matuszewski. In his theoretical writings, Matuszewski saw the significance of documentary film to the
      project of bringing the nation together culturally and in historical remembrance. Two of his pamphlets, A New
      Source of History: The Creation of a Depository for Historical Cinematography and Live Photography: What
      It Is; What It Should Be were published in France in 1898 and generated excitement as soon as they were
      translated from their original French into Polish. In the partitioned lands, short articles on the pamphlets
      appeared immediately following their publication in local newspapers and magazines, claiming, for example, "The
      humanities will profit greatly"51 from his ideas. His work was associated with progress in the sciences, medicine, and
      history, and was a source of pride for Polish speakers, who expressed satisfaction with the positive reception of
      his efforts abroad. In a third pamphlet, An Innovation in Graphology and in Expertise in Writing (1899),
      Matuszewski expresses his views on the use of cinema in distinguishing truth from fiction, while in a fourth,
      Portraits on Vitrified Enamel (1901), he explains his technique of fixing photographic
      images.52 In Live
      Photography and A New Source of History, Matuszewski articulates
      his interest in film as a potential tool for the advancement of educational and social goals and he argues for
      the creation of a periodical devoted to the technical and cultural aspects of film and cinema.
    

      In A New Source of History, Matuszewski proposes the creation of a depository for filmed images
      documenting historical moments. Film, according to Matuszewski, is a means for historical documentation, but not
      only that: It comprises history, bits of life that, though past, may be revived through a gesture as simple as
      projecting a stream of light onto a makeshift screen. Matuszewski writes, "No doubt the effects of history are
      always easier to seize than the causes. But one thing makes another clearer; these effects, fully brought to
      light by the cinema, will provide clear insights into causes which heretofore have remained in semi-obscurity.
      And to lay hands not on everything that exists but on everything that can be grasped is already an excellent
      achievement for any source of information, scientific or historic."53


      Matuszewski privileges visual communication over verbal in much the same way that Irzykowski does years later.
      Yet he does not mask the political dimensions of his interest in filmmaking as a path for discovery of the
      nation's errors. "Even oral accounts and written documents do not give us the complete course of the events they
      describe, but nevertheless History exists, true after all, in the larger spectrum even if its details are often
      distorted," he writes. "If only for the First Empire and the Revolution, to choose examples, we could reproduce
      the scenes which animated photography easily brings back to life, we could have resolved some perhaps minor but
      nonetheless perplexing questions, and saved floods of useless ink!"54 Visual documentation is proof of actions and of the motives
      behind those actions, according to Matuszewski. The general political situation in the partitioned lands makes
      apparent the potential impact of such a visual record. To reproduce scenes from the French Revolution or any of
      the major events that shaped the Europe from which Poland had disappeared must have seemed an astounding
      proposal. Matuszewski also attempts to define the specificity of cinema against other forms of historical
      documentation in these early writings. He contemplates the nature of the filmmaking apparatus, ultimately
      defining it as a medium, a conduit for achieving the goal that he proposes. He considers film's limitations, as
      well, ultimately deciding that even these limitations further this goal of documenting reality by new means. He
      writes, "The cinematographer does not record the whole of history perhaps, but at least that part he gives us is uncontestable and of absolute truth. Ordinary photography can be retouched,
      even to the point of transformation. But just try to make identical changes on a thousand or twelve-hundred
      microscopic images!"55


      Why was Matuszewski so interested in truth? Part of the reason was his experiences as an inhabitant of France and
      partitioned Poland; members of different ethnic groups within the Russian Empire sometimes explained historical
      events that had taken place in Warsaw differently, and, again, statements relating authenticity to moving images
      had been a part of cinematic foreignness since DuPont. There was less a desire to prove one's interpretation than
      a need. He writes, "It can be said that intrinsic to animated photography is an authenticity, exactitude and
      precision which belong to it alone. It is the epitome of the truthful and infallible eye-witness. It can verify
      verbal testimony, and if human witnesses contradict each other about an event, it can resolve the disagreement by
      silencing the one it belies."56


      His basis for evaluating the accuracy of motion pictures is, of course, mistaken. His elaboration, however,
      points to his desire for resurgence in historical remembrance. His writing is heavily informed by the
      nineteenth-century Polish Romantic nationalist literary tradition and its sense of longing for a forgotten
      identity, which has fallen into a slumber and must be reawakened. He continues, "Thus this cinematographic print
      in which a scene is made up of a thousand images, and which, unreeled between a focused light source and a white
      sheet makes the dead and the absent stand up and walk, this simple band of printed celluloid constitutes not only
      a proof of history but a fragment of history itself, and a history which has not grown faint, which does not need
      a genius to resuscitate it. It is there, barely asleep, and like those elementary organisms which after years of
      dormancy are revitalized by a bit of warmth and humidity, in order to reawaken and relive the hours of the past,
      it only needs a little light projected through a lens into the heart of darkness!"57


      Matuszewski saw in film an eyewitness to history, an unchangeable and truthful portrayal of the events that
      shaped the lives of nations and their people. A New Source of History is one of the first European
      attempts at theorizing about the new invention as well as a practical guide to the creation of a storehouse or
      museum for depositing pieces of film that held historical significance. Matuszewski's arguments concern the
      impact of cinema on historical remembrance and objectivity. He insists on the infallibility of the truth
      documented in motion pictures and on the absolute necessity of creating a film depository.
      For Matuszewski, film develops humans' understanding of each other as well as national histories and cultures.
      Because it records images in a quick, almost automatic way, film exposes truths about the immediate and distant
      past. Film is, according to Matuszewski, evidence of life, evocative and directly communicative, able to shape
      intercultural relations through truth telling.
    










2
    

      The Emergence of a Competitive Industry, 1908-18
    

      Film Production under the Empires
    

      FILM PRODUCTION IN THE PARTITIONS increased steadily from 1908 until the outbreak of World War I, particularly
      with regard to the number of adaptations of Polish and Yiddish literary works. As elsewhere in Europe,
      distributors altered their practices to allow films to be rented rather than sold, a development that led to the
      regulation of licensing and concessions. Permanent cinemas slowly replaced temporary venues, reducing the
      practice of traveling exhibitions and making room for better distribution of domestic films. Entrepreneurs opened
      film production companies in Warsaw, where a cottage industry slowly began to take root.
    

      Even as the appeal and reach of films documenting daily life and social events expanded to include funerals of
      famous people, travelogues, and news from other parts of the Polish-speaking partitioned lands, fiction
      filmmaking laid the foundation for the silent films of the next two decades. Fiction films included comedies,
      patriotic films, and adaptations of novels and stage plays. Several major producers of feature films began their
      careers between 1908 and 1914, including Henryk Finkelstein, Marian Fuks, Samuel Ginzburg, Aleksander Hertz, and
      Mordechaj Towbin. Likewise, a small cadre of other film professionals was established, among the most successful
      of whom were camera operators Konstanty Jastrzębski and Stanisław Sebel, directors Wiktor Biegański and Andrzej
      Marek (Marek Arnsztejn), and actors Antoni Fertner, Ester Rachel Kamińska, Samuel Landau, and Maria Mirska. Their
      specialties were apparent from the beginning: the diligent Sebel, for example, nourished a talent for filming
      adaptations of Yiddish texts, while Jastrzębski specialized in adaptations of
      Polish literary classics, as demonstrated in his work as Antoni Bednarczyk's camera operator on Dzieje
      grzechu (The Story of Sin, 1911), based on the novel by Stefan Żeromski.
    

      New production companies formed after Pleograf folded. Towbin founded Kantor Zjednoczonych Kinematografów "Siła"
      (widely known as Siła) around 1908. Towbin also owned one of the first permanent cinemas in Warsaw, Iluzjon,
      which opened in 1908, and in 1910, he established the first film rental office. In that same year, with camera
      operator Joseph Meyer (stopping in Warsaw on his way from Moscow to Paris) and stage comedian Fertner, Towbin
      produced a short (120 meter) comedy, Antoś pierwszy raz w Warszawie (Antoś in Warsaw for the First
      Time), in which Fertner plays a cheerful naïf from the provinces who stumbles helplessly around the streets of
      Warsaw. Fertner, joint owner of the Oaza cinema, had a great deal of control over the film. Not only did he star
      in it, but he also commissioned it and projected it for the first time (after Meyer had developed the negative in
      Paris) to a full house of 180 people at Oaza on October 22, 1908.
    

      Soon Towbin hired Sebel as his camera operator and Marek as screenwriter and director, and began to produce
      multiple-reel films based predominantly on classic works of Yiddish literature. Breaking from the prevalence of
      comedy in earlier domestic productions as well as from Yiddish comedic traditions, Siła productions were
      melodramas, either sensational or domestic. The company's first film was Der vilder foter (The Cruel
      Father, 1911), based on the play by Jacob Gordin (Zalmen Libin) about a father's murder of his daughter's
      illegitimate child. Next, it made Hasa die yesome (Chasydka i odstępca; Hasa the Orphan or The
      Hasidic Woman and the Apostate, 1911), and Mirele Efros (1912), based on another popular play by Gordin
      about a respected widow in a difficult relationship with her daughter-in-law. Finally, Towbin made Abraham Izaak
      Kamiński's adaptation of Gordin's Bóg, człowiek i szatan (God, Man, and Devil, 1912). These films varied
      in length from 550 to 1250 meters, lasted approximately thirty to sixty minutes, and, unlike films from just a
      decade earlier, were the main attraction, no longer just the accompaniment to live theater.
    

      Towbin also took on the somewhat taboo subject of politically motivated violence in the Kingdom of Prussia. The
      circumstances surrounding the making of his first feature film, Pruska kultura (Prussian Culture), are
      not clear. Małgorzata Hendrykowska and Marek Hendrykowski claim that the film was probably not made in Poznań,
      although its title does advert to the region surrounding the city.1 Regardless of its origin, it is
      likely that authorities censored the film. In May 1908, Kurier warszawski announced that a motion
      picture that depicting scenes of battle between the Polish inhabitants of Poznań and Germans had been advertised
      in a Moscow newspaper. According to Kurier warszawski, Towbin commissioned the picture from a Parisian
      firm after the local administration had prohibited him from producing it in Warsaw. The newspaper claimed that
      the film had been shown successfully in Italy. Most likely, this same Prussian Culture was shown at a
      Marszałkowska Street theater in Warsaw under different political circumstances in September 1914.2


      The largest and most enduring production company in pre-World War II Warsaw was unmistakably Hertz's Sfinks,
      established in 1909. Active, competitive, and undeterred by the political instability of World War I and the
      burdens of economic and cultural transformation, its founder was responsible for the success of Sfinks's
      twenty-seven-year stretch of film production. A banker and, beginning in 1905, an activist in the Polish
      Socialist Party (PPS), Hertz established personal contacts with such future government leaders as Józef
      Piłsudski. The socialist platform of the PPS consisted of an eight-hour working day, a minimum wage, social
      insurance, and the gradual socialization of land, as well as universal suffrage, freedom of speech, compulsory
      education, and equal rights for national, racial, and religious minorities. Most significantly, the PPS placed
      first priority on the restoration, against Russian political interests, of an independent Poland. Authorities
      arrested Hertz in 1908 on unspecified charges but released him for lack of evidence a year later, at which time
      he returned to Warsaw and ostensibly resigned from political activism. (As subsequent chapters will show, his
      filmmaking was highly political.) In need of a new career, and noticing the growing number of permanent cinemas
      and the swelling public interest in moviegoing, Hertz gathered three of his friends—Józef Koerner, Alfred
      Niemirski (Silberlast), and M. Zuker—and established Sfinks with himself as its head.
    

      Sfinks contributed to the domestic film industry the addition of Polish intertitles to foreign films, which Sebel
      designed for Pathé Frères in Sfinks's Marszałkowska Street laboratory beginning in 1908. Sebel and his colleagues
      at Sfinks also developed their own film prints, a practice that saved the company money and gave them complete
      control over their productions. In its first years in business, Sfinks made actualités and news event films,
      beginning probably with Wzlot aeroplanu w Warszawie (An Airplane's
      Ascent in Warsaw, 1909). The company covered many of the major events of the day, including court proceedings,
      outdoor sporting events, medical procedures, horse races, and funerals. Sfinks also attempted to create a weekly
      newsreel in 1912, which it named Dziennik (Daily). The newsreel format did not enjoy much success, which
      drew Hertz's attention to the ongoing discourse about the differences between documentary and fiction in the
      stateless nation.
    

      Hertz remained director of Sfinks until his early death in 1928. Over this long career, he took the political
      changes in the lands in stride. In 1912, for example, he allowed the owners of one of the largest Russian
      production companies to collaborate with Sfinks, then ended this arrangement in order to align himself with
      German producers in 1915. Hertz's character, connections, and financial shrewdness ensured the success of his
      company at a time when many other companies failed. He demonstrated a successful mix of love for the cinema,
      which he called by a term of his own invention, ruchosłońcopis (moving luminous record), and contempt
      for cinema enthusiasts, whom he regarded as hopeless fanatics. He approached producing films as others approached
      producing alcohol or other legal but addictive drugs. In short, he recognized that, if given the chance, people
      would use the cinema as a means of escape from the daily grind, and he disdained them for it. Regardless of the
      reasons for Hertz's ambivalent relationship with his customers, his attitude seems to have taken a heavy toll on
      the film industry. Hertz shaped his spectators' viewing practices by offering certain types of films in
      particular, those that would cater to audiences' need for escape and their willingness to suspend disbelief. He
      offered them films that portrayed the vision of national history and culture that he wanted to perpetuate at any
      given moment. Because of this determination to shape the industry according to his own wishes, Hertz counts among
      the most complex of early film producers.
    

      Like earlier producers, Hertz saw potential in adapting literary texts for the screen. He usually chose popular
      melodramas that the largest number of viewers would instantly recognize. He usually did not adapt from Yiddish
      texts, but Sfinks's first feature-length adaptations did include Meir Ezofowicz (1911), based on the
      novel by Eliza Orzeszkowa. The ambiguous aspects of this film's production cause one to wonder whether Hertz's
      disdain for filmgoers had something to do with a long-standing ambivalence in the attitudes of the nation's
      minority and majority groups toward one another as he may have inadvertently or purposely encouraged animosity in
      hiring people to make the film. The plot concerns a Jewish family whose
      ancestors had lived in the area of the Russian partition for hundreds of years and who, like the area's Catholic
      inhabitants, carried hopes for the restoration of Polish independence. The title of this Polish novel is a
      Yiddish personal name—a detail that helped draw the attention of speakers of both languages to it. The film used
      quotations from the novel in its intertitles, lending it authenticity in the minds of some critics.3


      Hertz made a strange decision, however, when he chose a well-known anti-Semite, Józef Ostoja-Sulnicki, to write
      and direct the film. A review of Meir Ezofowicz in Kurier warszawski criticizes the film and
      comments on the difficulties faced by its creators, including lack of "suitable, proper terrain for
      filming"—presumably because of their anti-Semitic behavior, they were not permitted to film on
      location.4 Władysław
      Banaszkiewicz and Witold Witczak claim that Ostoja-Sulnicki was chosen for the role of director of Meir
      Ezofowicz because, as a "radical anti-Semite," he depicted Jews as xenophobic in a way that reflected
      growing xenophobia in the population at large.5 However, criticism of the film, such as that in Kurier warszawski, hinted that
      Jewish communities probably shunned him because of his social views, which, ironically, were why he received the
      job. The situation sheds light on the complex, sometimes contradictory relationship that Hertz fostered between
      Catholics and Jews in his films. The seemingly bizarre choices made in filming Meir Ezofowicz may have
      arisen from Hertz's insistence on offering a little something for everyone—for Polish speakers, a Polish novel;
      for Yiddish speakers, a Yiddish title; for multiculturalists, a story of positive intercultural relations; and
      for anti-Semites, an anti-Semitic director. Finally, scandal-seekers chitchatted about the fact that a prominent
      Jewish producer had hired the enemy to direct his films.
    

      The outrage over this film was surprisingly short-lived. For example, Natan Gross claims in Film żydowski w
      Polsce (Jewish Film in Poland), "The fact that Ostoja-Sulnicki wrote anti-Semitic texts may not be a
      foregone answer to questions about the meaning of the film. In addition, he was probably only nominally the
      director, and in reality the film was probably made by the head of Sfinks himself, Aleksander Hertz."6 Gross defends Hertz's decision
      without explaining why Hertz continued to hire Ostoja-Sulnicki to direct other films, even after the minor
      scandal over Meir Ezofowicz, or why he chose him in the first place. Władysław Jewsiewicki offers a
      similar explanation: "Hertz, a patriot and PPS sympathizer, was not only a good businessperson. He also understood the touchiness of Polish public opinion, which manifested itself in more
      than just artistic matters. For this reason, he always chose directors for his films from the
      journalistic-literary or theatrical milieu with names that sounded Polish (Ostoja-Sulnicki, Sulimierski,
      Pawłowski, and Puchalski). However, once they were in the studio, these directors did not always have a say; the
      esteemed director Hertz, who ran his company with an iron fist, made the decisions. In the Sfinks studio, he took
      care that the last names of even the camera operators and technicians sounded Polish. This phenomenon is even
      more characteristic considering that Hertz came from a Jewish family."7


      Improbable as it may seem, the decision did amount to little more than trite conversation for a few
      gossipers. Hertz knew that hiring Ostoja-Sulnicki would enhance, rather than hinder, the film's financial
      prospects and its place in cinema history. In the Meir Ezofowicz scandal, Hertz proved that he could be
      successful by choosing a name that would ignite a fire and that once he dismissed the decision as insignificant,
      audiences and historians would excuse him. He knew that audiences would want to believe in the image presented on
      screen and that intellectuals in Poland often preferred to remain silent rather than become trapped in the
      impropriety of name-calling. His way of doing business was more than a media ploy or a means of satisfying people
      of all political ideologies: In this and similar endeavors, Hertz exploited practices of spectatorship that had
      been established in the first years of cinema in order to condition his audiences to accept the filmic image as
      the ultimate truth.
    

      Hertz's other adaptations were less controversial but equally demonstrative of his strategies. Early examples
      include Wykolejeni (Aszantka; Human Wrecks, 1913), based on the popular novel by Włodzimierz
      Perzyński, and Edukacja Bronki (Educating Bronka) by Stefan Krzywoszewski. Hertz also wrote original
      scripts for Przesądy (Prejudices, 1912), a story of the love of a count's daughter for a servant's son,
      and Niewolnica zmysłów (The Slave of Sin, 1914), a film about a young woman's self-destruction in the
      name of love and the debut of actress Pola Negri (Apolonia Chałupiec). In the years leading up to the First World
      War, Hertz began to collaborate with a small company called Sokół and to buy out other companies, until he
      eventually held a monopoly on film production.
    

      Finkelstein and Samuel Ginzburg established the Kosmofilm production company in 1913, though Ginzburg (who had
      helped establish Siła just a few months earlier) soon left it. Run by
      Finkelstein, Kosmofilm had its own studio and laboratory in Warsaw. Its interests resembled those of Towbin's
      Siła in that the company produced films mainly on Jewish subjects with actors from the eminent Warsaw Jewish
      Theater, including the Kamiński family: Abraham Izaak Kamiński, Regina Kamińska, Kazimierz Kamiński, Ester Rachel
      Kamińska, Ida Kamińska, Samuel Landau, Herman Wajsman, and Helena Gotlib. Kosmofilm's productions included many
      adaptations from plays—a sensible decision, considering the talent that the company brought from the local
      theater. It made Dem khazons tokhter (The Cantor's Daughter, 1913), Der unbekanter (The
      Stranger, 1913), Di shikhte (The Slaughter, 1913), Gots shtrof (God's Punishment, 1913), and
      Di shtifmuter (The Stepmother, 1914), all based on the plays of Jacob Gordin and premiering, presumably
      to the theatergoing crowd, in a small cinema in Warsaw. With actors from the Polish-language stage theater, in
      1913 Kosmofilm produced a popular three-act adaptation of Halka, the Polish national opera written by
      Stanisław Moniuszko and in 1914 brought out Karpaccy górale (Carpathian Mountaineers), based on Józef
      Korzeniowski's play. In the same year, Sebel filmed a documentary, Ziemia święta, Egipt (Palestyna) (The
      Holy Land: Egypt [Palestine]), for Finkelstein that was shown in 1915. In its two years of existence, the company
      produced nearly twenty feature films and documentaries, becoming one of Poland's main producers.
    

      In addition to Kosmofilm, Sfinks, and Siła, independent producers and groups of friends made films. Fertner
      joined three other popular actors—Julian Krzewiński, Wincenty Rapacki, and Juliusz Zagrodzki—to form their own
      production company. With Sebel as their main cameraman, the company specialized in comedy, specifically in films
      starring Fertner as the cheery, absentminded character that he had created in Antoś in Warsaw for the First
      Time. One such film, Zaręczyny Antosia w dzień kwiatka (Antoś's Wedding Engagement on Flower Day,
      1911), satirized philanthropy among Warsaw elites: Fertner's character, not having enough money to buy flowers
      for the attention-seeking women surrounding him on the streets of Warsaw, gives away his articles of clothing,
      one by one.
    

      In L'viv, there sprang up small production companies that specialized in documenting local news events. According
      to scholar Irena Nowak-Zaorska, a member of the Polish Teachers' Union organized the first educational
      films—featuring scenes from nature, historical monuments, inventions, and other documentary-type films—beginning in late 1909. In 1913, a theater devoted to educational films opened
      to the dismay of many who felt that motion pictures were demoralizing and harmful to children.8


      Marek Münz opened a small production center in his photography studio in 1912, and the firm known as Kinofilm
      opened soon after. Together, these companies made ethnographic documentaries (presumably registered in official
      legal documents in the Polish language) such as Wzloty hr. Scipio (The Flights of Count Scipio),
      Uroczystość Bożego Ciała we Lwowie (Corpus Christi Celebrations in L'viv), and Wiec chełmski we
      Lwowie (A Rally from Chelm in L'viv).9 Other films include Uroczystości ślubne ks. Czetwertyńskiej (Princess
      Czetwertyńska's Wedding), Pożar odbenzyniarni w Drohobyczu 21 III 1912 roku (A Gasoline Fire in
      Drohobycz on March 21, 1912), and Galicja w kinematografie (Galicia in Film), all made in 1912.
      Completed by Pathé Frères at the request of the Galician Tourism Association, Galicia in Film's Vienna
      premiere "drew the court and cream of the capital's society" and was meant to display L'viv's significance to the
      empire's military strategies, according to Banaszkiewicz and Witczak.10 Other travelogues made for the Galician Tourism Association
      include the sights of L'viv, a Hucul funeral, a wedding, and the travel of "hoodlums" on the Czeremosz
      River.11


      The fiction film Powrót taty (Ballada w 15 odsłonach) (Papa's Return [A Ballad in 15 Acts]) premiered in
      L'viv in January 1910.12
      Among other fiction films made in L'viv were Zygmunt Wesołowski's Miłosne przygody panów Z. i J.—Znanych
      osobistości w L. (The Amorous Adventures of Messrs. Z. and J.—Well-Known Personalities in L'viv, 1912) and
      Pomszczona krzywda (An Avenged Injustice, 1912). In all likelihood, Wesołowski wrote the screenplay for
      the latter. However, promotional materials for the film stated (probably incorrectly but true to "the looking
      glass" in its privileging of western Europe) that its director was "brought all the way from London."13 New companies, including Muza,
      Leopolia, and Polonia, attempted to make films. Both of Polonia's productions—a fiction film about a rich man's
      love for a poor flower seller and another featuring American actors—remain unfinished because of the outbreak of
      the war. Leopolia's Kościuszko pod Racławicami (Kościuszko at Racławice, 1913) fared poorly in spite of
      promotion by the company's mouthpiece, Ekran i scena (Screen and Stage). However, the owners, brothers
      A. and L. Krogulski, would bring the expertise they had gained in the making of it to a smaller town, Krosno,
      after the war.14


Wiktor Biegański, who became one of the most successful actors and directors of
      the interwar period, made his first film in Kraków and L'viv in 1913. Parts of his Dramat wieży
      mariackiej (The Story of the Mariacki Church Tower) have survived. Most likely, this film and his
      Przygody pana Antoniego (The Adventures of Anton) were never exhibited.
    

      The Vienna exhibition of a 1500-meter-long film made in 1913 by the Berlin-based Projektions A.G. Union company
      and directed by Carl Wilhelm, Shylock von Krakau (Shylock from Kraków), caused an uproar in newspapers
      such as Kronika powszechna (Popular Chronicle). It claimed that the film's display of Jewish life amid
      the relics of Poland's former statehood promulgated "the humiliation of Christian and, in turn, the superiority
      and triumph of Semitic culture."15


      In 1907, Kraków w kinematografie (Kraków in Motion Pictures), Pochód robotniczy i zabawa w Parku
      Jordana (A Workers' Parade and Party in Jordan Park), and Pogrzeb Stanisława Wyspiańskiego (The
      Funeral of Stanisław Wyspiański) were made in Kraków. Other Kraków films of the period include Sport
      Saneczkowy w Krakowie (Sledding in Kraków, 1909), Rewia automobiłów i wyścigi na Górze Mogilańskiej
      (An Automobile Show and Race on Mogilańska Hill, 1909), Straż pożarna w Krakowie (The Fire Station in
      Kraków, 1911), and Pogrzeb Kardynała Puzyny (The Funeral of Cardinal Puzyna, 1911). It is not clear
      whether all of these films were completed and exhibited.
    

      Two cities dominated film production and exhibition in the Russian partition during the last years of the tsarist
      empire. Warsaw, the erstwhile capital, and Łódź, where the Krzemiński brothers advertised the medium diligently,
      stand in startling contrast to other cities, like Vilnius. At least two films were made in Vilnius in the era
      before independence: Bez ozdoby: Z nędzy do pieniędzy (Without Adornment: From Poverty to Wealth) and
      Bóg zemsty (God of Vengeance), based on the Yiddish play by Sholem Asch. The first temporary cinema,
      Iluzja, opened in 1905, a full four years after the first one in Łódź, and the first permanent cinema opened in
      1907, at the tail end of the era of early cinema. Five cinemas were in operation in various parts of the city
      until the outbreak of World War I. During this period in Kaunas, Władysław Starewicz (Ladislas Starevich) began
      to experiment with stop-motion animation while working as a documentary filmmaker for a museum of natural
      history. Wishing to record a fight between two beetles, he grew frustrated by the fact that they slept in the daylight. Fatigued with trying to keep them awake, he killed and
      dismembered them, reassembled them as puppets, dressed them as soldiers, and shot an early stop-motion animation
      film, Walka żuków (The Battle of the Beetles, 1910).16


      Audiences cheered when the Italian film Quo vadis?, directed by Enrico Guazzoni, appeared in Kraków
      cinemas in 1913. Based on the novel of the same name by Nobel Prize-winning Polish writer Henryk Sienkiewicz,
      Quo vadis? was so popular among Polish-speaking audiences that in Bydgoszcz, the price of a ticket to
      the film was the highest audiences had ever seen; the Dziennik bydgoski (Bydgoszcz Daily) proclaimed it
      "full of poetry, passion, dramatic life, and color."17 In Racibórz, tickets were priced at 20 and 30 pfennigs higher than usual, ranging from
      box seats at 2.6 marks to the gallery at 50 pfennigs.18 Hertz quickly decided to film adaptations of the Polish
      writer's other major works, and in fall 1913, Hertz and Niemirski collaborated to create a production company,
      Sokół, to make these adaptations, which would require elaborate sets and enormous crowds of extras. Because the
      rights to Sienkiewicz's other works, Krzyżacy (The Teutonic Knights) and the epic Trylogia (The
      Trilogy), already had been bought by a young filmmaker, Edward Puchalski, the company hired him to direct. Sokół,
      however, did not succeed in its attempts to create a film on the scale of Quo vadis? First, Hertz and
      Niemirski put the adaptations of Sienkiewicz's novels aside while they made other films instead of devoting
      themselves entirely to them. One of the films, Obrona Częstochowy (The Defense of Częstochowa), was
      supposed to have been another enormous production with as many as six hundred extras in one scene. Hertz claimed
      that Sfinks did not finish the film because the government refused to allow them to use Russian soldiers as
      extras,19 though it is also
      likely that the company ran out of money in the middle of this project and had nothing left with which to make
      the Sienkiewicz dramas. At any rate, Puchalski soon moved to Moscow, and Hertz shelved the idea. In order to
      recoup part of its losses from the failed endeavor, the company made several small films, which were relatively
      unsuccessful.
    

      The situation provides, yet again, an example befitting Karol Irzykowski's law of the looking glass. Audiences
      were thrilled to see an adaptation of a Polish novel made in Italy and clamored for a domestic equivalent. Its
      execution, however, proved impossible because of the weakness of the film industry in the occupied territories.
      Enthusiasm for national culture was greatest when inhabitants of another nation presented it in a positive light.
      The desire to see events in abstraction was strong. When they expressed
      national pride when they watched Quo vadis? in a glorious, extravagant, and foreign form,
      audiences were envisioning themselves within a global picture—a modern picture of abundance—that they had long
      been told excluded them.
    

      Zagrodzki and a group of actors formed a production company known as Kooperatywa Artystyczna in the years before
      World War I. Their major films included Sąd Boży (God's Trial, 1911), based on Stanisław Wyspiański's
      drama Sędziowie (Judges), and Ofiara namiętności (A Victim of Passion, 1912). Much was made of
      the cooperative's choice to adapt ambitious literary works, yet critics disparaged it for its reliance on
      theatrical techniques and its focus on acting. By contrast, the newsreels and short documentaries that were the
      domain of photojournalist and filmmaker Fuks fared better. His depictions of the funerals of famous people and
      court proceedings were shown at the Olympia cinema in Warsaw's emerging entertainment district.
    

      Competition between the major companies was fierce, even if the stakes were low. As one story goes, Towbin
      attempted to sabotage Sfinks's premiere of Quo Vadis? by projecting a secretly borrowed copy of it in
      his theater a day earlier. In revenge, Hertz used his political connections to have the theater closed in the
      middle of the screening. In another, Towbin kidnapped and held for ransom French actor Max Linder, who was
      traveling to Warsaw at Hertz's invitation, in 1914.20 No amount of pressure from other companies could stifle Hertz, however. Within five
      years of its formation, Sfinks had managed to swallow almost every one of its competitors. This is not to imply
      that competitors necessarily fought against their incorporation into Sfinks or that its owner, Hertz, had to
      fight for friends. He had friends and respect. He had money, a vision, and the willingness to incorporate other
      companies into his own rather than to destroy them. However, he refused to make certain types of films. What was
      lost in his dealings, for the first time but not the last, was the production of silent films based on Yiddish
      texts.
    

      "Everybody's" Secret Pastime: The Inteligencja and the Issue of Intertitles
    

      The history of cinema in Poland is, in large part, a history of people alternately participating in and
      negotiating ways to avoid the linguistic and class tensions with which they lived on a daily basis. From the
      outset, audiences connected cinema inexorably with national language, and
      national language with religion, ethnicity, wealth, power, a general sense of belonging, and entitlement.
      Although cinema could have been—and at times was—used to advance the ideologies of various branches of the Polish
      nationalist movement, it also exacerbated existing conflicts between speakers of different languages under the
      partitions. As cinema attendance grew between 1908 and 1914, two major exhibition issues arose: First, many
      intellectuals struggled to reconcile a traditional commitment to distinguishing between high and low culture with
      their budding interest in motion pictures; second, as distributors began placing intertitles in domestic
      languages on their imported films, concerns over national languages surfaced. In both cases, filmgoing evolved
      into a more or less explicit political act.
    

      It is difficult to know where motion picture projection took place between 1907 and 1914. Information on the
      number and size of theaters is hard to obtain and often contradictory, with the exception of certain theaters in
      a few cities. At the end of 1907, there were three permanent cinemas in Poznań, a city of 148,000: Mettler's,
      Pałacowe, and Residenz. This number tripled in the next two years.21 In 1908, there were between twenty and thirty motion picture
      theaters in Warsaw. As in Poznań, the number of cinemas and their seating capacities grew rapidly. As of fall
      1911, the largest of the sixty-odd motion picture theaters in Warsaw advertised seating for two hundred
      people;22 by 1913, the
      Apollo, with room for 750 people, was in operation. In Łódź, there were ten cinemas in 1912. In Lublin, the Oaza
      held one thousand people and was the fourth cinema in the city by 1911. In the entire area of Galicia, there were
      at least seventy cinemas in 1913. In Bydgoszcz, the Kristal had room for 750 people by 1914.23 According to Jewsiewicki, on the
      eve of the World War I, there were approximately three hundred permanent theaters in the partitioned lands. They
      accommodated thousands of spectators each day. By all accounts, there was a relaxed, liberated atmosphere in the
      cinemas, where people could clap, comment on the action on the screen, and enjoy the reactions of their neighbors
      in the crowd. Fires, however, were a major problem before World War II. For example, a fire partially destroyed
      one of the oldest motion picture theaters in Warsaw, Oaza.
    

      The location and architecture of cinemas facilitated their appeal. In large cities, the city center, with its
      trendy restaurants and bars, supported the most cinemas. In Warsaw, many of these were located in the area that
      was by then the motion picture theater district along the busy commercial sections of Marszałkowska and Nowy Świat streets. The cinemas were open from 3:00 PM until 10:00 PM or midnight (including special showings "for men
      only" at 10:00 PM) and by all accounts had a constant clientele that overflowed into
      neighboring cafés. Banaszkiewicz and Witczak note that Warsaw's working-class neighborhoods, too, housed a large
      number of cinemas. They quote an editorial in Goniec wieczorny (Evening Dispatch) about a motion picture
      theater in the working-class neighborhood of Wola, which alleges that the cinema was profiting immensely from a
      regular audience of workers paying an average of twenty kopecks per ticket.
    

      Once such entertainment districts were established, they became the usual venues for film premieres. Exhibitors
      learned very quickly that building an entertainment district in a central location encouraged competition and
      attracted a certain type of clientele, in particular, people who were willing to pay higher ticket prices than
      those in residential districts. The experience of attending a motion picture program quickly became intertwined
      with other urban experiences. With its lively café culture, Warsaw became the center of film exhibition just as
      it had become the center of film production. The entertainment district was important to other cities and towns,
      as well. From Vilnius to L'viv, it became a symbol of progress and politics. In the small, unindustrialized city
      of Kraków, the popularity of Cyrk Edison beginning in 1906 meant that later cinemas were more likely to succeed
      if they were located in the same part of town, near other symbols of modernity.24


      The first Warsaw motion picture theaters outside the central entertainment district opened in neighborhoods that
      were centers of Jewish culture. On Targowa Street in the Praga section of the city (across the river from the
      city center) was the Praski Iluzjon, while the Arkadia and Feniks were located on Dzika Street in Nalewki. In
      smaller cities, such as Łódź and Poznań, only a few exhibition sites were not located on or just off the main
      streets, which were Piotrkowska Street in the former and the intersection of Świętego Marcina and Berlińska
      streets in the latter. The availability of choices slowly shaped exhibition practices, as people belonging to a
      particular social, economic, or religious class chose to frequent specific cinemas based on the size of the
      cinema district, the number of residential areas, and the degree of segregation in each city. For the most part,
      though, exhibitors placed large cinemas that catered to a diverse crowd in key parts of each city.
    

      Small-town cinemas were different. According to Stanisław Janicki, the first cinema exhibitions in the small
      Silesian town of Skoczów took place in the Teatr Elektryczny on Saturday, June
      28, 1913, at 4:00 PM and 8:00 PM. The advertisements
      claimed that the films, which included beloved French features and some documentaries, would be projected using
      French equipment. Tickets cost between forty and eighty hellers; children were admitted at half price but were
      allowed only in the afternoon. Janicki writes of the projections, "Our fathers, grandfathers, and
      great-grandfathers could find out how beef is spiced in Sudan, which animals living in the English Channel are
      edible, what kinds of 'life-saving devices used for shipwrecks' exist, what the 'habits and customs of
      "highlanders"' are, what has happened in sports, what the latest fashions are, etc."25 He continues, "On the basis of the available
      materials, one can risk the assertion that audiences had the opportunity to see a broad, diverse, and interesting
      range of films. The program was limited to French cinema almost entirely, though, modestly enriched with Italian
      and German pictures. It is easy to notice that the very popular Danish films (Asta Nielsen!) but, most of all,
      American films were not shown."26


      As one indicator of exhibition practices, the terms used to describe audiences may reveal the priorities of
      certain distributors and exhibitors. Warsaw newspapers, for example, used the term "wszyscy," or
      "everybody," to describe audiences. There was everybody—as in a broad range of social, linguistic, and economic
      groups—and there was "everybody"—in a different sense. In Warsaw, this "everybody," like "tout Paris" in
      France, was the inteligencja, a cultural elite composed of artists, writers, businesspeople, and public
      trendsetters. Beginning in this period, the inteligencja forged a very specific relationship with cinema that
      vacillated between love and hate. For example, critic Leo Belmont describes learning in 1909 that two eminent
      intellectuals regularly attended the cinema: "Once, when I had finished giving a lecture in Lublin, the
      respectable Dr. Biernacki, one of the editors of Kurier lubelski (Lublin Courier), gave me the honor of
      presenting me with a slightly timid proposition to go for relaxation with him to the cinema. He said, 'Perhaps
      you don't like it?' I cried, clasping my hands, 'But sir! How can one not like the cinema? I am in love with the
      cinema . . .' He said, 'You are not alone. We hosted two men from Zakopane who run off to the cinema every week
      . . .' And, to my greatest surprise, he related two famous names that carry with them that sinfulness [Stefan
      Żeromski and Jan Lemański]. He said, 'Just please do not tell anyone.'"27


      Perhaps in order to distinguish the viewing practices of the inteligencja and the rest of society, Warsaw
      exhibitors raised the price of tickets in some parts of the city. The
      inteligencja was willing to buy expensive tickets and to support extravagant theaters in the fashionable,
      exclusive café district of the city. According to set designer Józef Galewski, Warsaw was an exception to the
      rule that people from all social groups came together to watch films (whether or not they actually mingled).
      Galewski claims that in Warsaw, only businesspersons and landowners, government and (Russian) military officials,
      and other wealthier people attended, as it was too expensive for workers.28 Galewski probably has in mind the large, permanent theaters in
      the main Warsaw entertainment district, as the inexpensive, temporary theaters (for example, those at circuses),
      and smaller permanent theaters located in other areas presumably catered to a more diverse audience. Because of
      this, and particularly because of the way in which this influenced the building of motion picture theaters in
      smaller cities and towns, cinema became its own type of institution, both culturally unique and linguistically
      integrated. Segregation did not result strictly from linguistic or religious differences, though these were
      important, but also from economic differences and cultural domination that forced residential segregation.
    

      Intertitles in Polish appeared on imported films for the first time in 1908. (It is not clear when they first
      appeared in Yiddish.) Other significant changes took place in film exhibition during this period, as well. The
      average film's length increased dramatically, and exhibitors were able to eliminate the practice of including
      live entertainment and, at least in part, the burden of constantly having to find new films to show audiences.
      Exhibitors gained the option of renting rather than buying films. Finally, the system by which cinema owners
      later influenced production began in this period. Sfinks, for example, began to earn money in distribution almost
      immediately after its establishment. Hertz of Sfinks, Towbin of Siła, and G. Kemmler, who represented foreign
      distribution companies, invested money earned from the distribution of rented foreign films in the production of
      domestic ones. Challenging them were new distribution companies, of which there were at least six in 1911.
    

      As exhibitors drew audiences to indoor screenings in permanent motion picture theaters, the spaces used for
      exhibition became less and less public. One significant consequence of this change was the escalating involvement
      of cinema in political issues. Increasingly, cinema owners' choices fostered audiences' antipathy toward majority
      or minority groups in each empire. To project German or Russian films was to make a political statement, if a
      sometimes inadvertent one. In the Kingdom of Prussia, intertitles, too, became a sensitive subject. Hendrykowska explains, "Even though laboratories for making Polish intertitles had
      existed in Warsaw since 1908, the majority of pictures that were shown were still written in German and Russian
      and, therefore, in the languages of the empires. In addition, Polish translations left a lot to be desired [as
      they employed Russified Polish]. The situation did not improve, but only worsened when the first 'sound' films
      (mainly German) came to the screens."29 She continues, "The closer it came to World War I, the more often pictures of a propagandist
      character appeared within cinema programs that were, on the surface, completely neutral and entertaining. We
      should add to this the fact that popular films were oftentimes the source of social antagonism. This was not
      difficult, considering that the majority of motion picture theaters in Pomerania and Silesia found themselves in
      German hands."30 It is not
      clear whether intertitles actually caused this much of a stir or not. As Hendrykowska also mentions, they may
      have served to displace tension over changing cinema ownership.
    

      An editorial in Dziennik bydgoski, the sole Polish-language periodical in the city in 1908, claimed that
      cinema should be used in the project of Polish nation building. At this time, the German Empire had passed a law
      prohibiting the use of the Polish language at public gatherings. Fearful that the language would fall into
      disuse, the writers proposed cinema as a subversive tool for keeping their language alive. The combination of
      visual images and intertitles was to be a pedagogical instrument, a way of teaching Poles to speak and write in
      Polish. As Guzek writes, cinema "took on not only a political dimension but also an educational one, even a
      didactic one, directed toward the least-educated social groups. The cinematograph was to be a vessel for the
      Polish word, and not an image of universal meaning. It was to be the ally not of a circus shed, but rather of a
      folk library or a self-educating circle of workers."31


      Developments in the Prussian partition support Guzek's view. Of the efforts of Polish businessman Wacław (Wenzel)
      Michał Szkaradkiewicz to open a cinema in Bydgoszcz, Guzek writes, "On September 29, 1908, he applied to the
      German regency government for a permit to open the first cinema in Bydgoszcz. Years later, he recalled, 'It was
      not well regarded, that I, as a Pole, was the first to take this step and at first, I was advised Lassen Sie
      sich doch lieber umtaufen [You had better change your name and nationality].' At any rate, I insisted, and I
      received the permit." As Guzek notes, both the Polish and German presses announced the opening of the 130-seat
      cinema, located on Gdańsk Street, which Szkaradkiewicz and his business
      partner, Wilhelm Beyrow, jointly owned, and which went by both a German and a Polish name.32 Daily programs lasted until
      December 1909. Farther south, the first permanent cinema in the small town of Racibórz, Metropol, opened around
      1909.33


      In Kraków in the aughts and early teens, intertitles in local languages were the exception, rather than the rule,
      and were part of exhibitors' marketing strategies. According to historian Zbigniew Wyszyński, the local
      Polish-language press campaigned for Polish intertitles in 1912, 1914, and 1917. It achieved little, though, as
      distributors and exhibitors claimed that there were not enough cinemas in the region to warrant the additional
      cost of multiple-language intertitles. Pathé Frères declared its commitment to providing the intertitles in 1914,
      but complaints about their absence appeared in periodicals such as Ilustrowany kurier codzienny
      (Illustrated Daily Courier) through 1917.34


      Although expressions of animosity toward language use in cinema exploded in the transition from silent to sound
      film, the subtle tone often used in debates was a sophisticated version of a nationalist rant from the partition
      period. (Conflicts over the ethnic identities of cinema owners continued to arise after the transition, too, as
      scholar Urszula Biel describes in Śląskie kina między wojnami, czyli przyjemność upolityczniona
      [Silesian Cinemas between the Wars, or A Pleasure Politicized]).35 For example, an anonymous opinion that appeared on the pages of
      Dziennik bydgoski in 1910 attacked the local theaters. The writer claims, "Each picture has a German
      title, each song from the gramophone is German, whether it is religious, romantic, or indecent. Each picture is a
      slice of life, whether it is historical, adventure, or even romantic, but always German. . . . It is the case
      that in order to understand a silent film in its entirety, we are forced against our will to read titles,
      extensive intertitles, and sometimes think in German." The writer questions the practice of paying to attend
      cinemas that, although owned and frequented by Poles, advance Germany through film.36 In his view, the financial consequences of this
      practice were secondary to the linguistic consequence of Polish speakers' increasing their fluency in the German
      language.
    

      Silesians felt similar tensions. According to scholar Jan F. Lewandowski, the exact dates of the first cinema
      projections in the Upper Silesian city of Katowice are unknown, but the first permanent cinemas appeared before
      1910. The name changes of the first cinemas in the early 1920s (when the city
      was granted to Poland by the League of Nations, which divided a disputed area between Germany and Poland) from
      German to Polish allude to language issues and political instability on the borderlands. At this time of five or
      six operating cinemas, the Kammer became Rialto, Palast become Pałacowe, and the Welttheater closed.37 Cinema attendance, it seems, had
      become a political act.
    

      "The Death of the Cinematograph?"
    

      Polish-language film theorists and critics emphasized study of the social, cultural, and linguistic facets of the
      medium over its aesthetic aspects for many reasons. First, with the exception of Bolesław Matuszewski, they were
      political activists, novelists, sociologists, historians, philosophers, and essayists rather than filmmakers, and
      their interests lay in the broader implications of film on society. Second, they produced a large body of
      criticism addressed to audiences beyond the relatively small production industry for which social, cultural, and
      linguistic considerations took precedence. At times, film writing surpassed film production in both quality and
      quantity. Third, they were consistently ambivalent toward ideology; here, intellectuals demonstrated little faith
      in reigning ideologies and even less in the idea of revolution against those ideologies.38


      According to film historian Jadwiga Bocheńska, the difference between film theory in western Europe and theory in
      the partitioned lands is considerable. "Domestic criticism," she writes, "places the accents in different spots:
      in place of considerations about the characteristics of film as art, questions were put concerning its role in
      social life and its place among other trends of contemporary civilization."39 Like their counterparts in other countries, writers in the
      partitions debated the relationship of film to theater. They questioned the status of film as art vis-à-vis
      traditional arts and observed the explosion of popular culture through cinema. Pedagogues Ludwik Skoczylas ("How
      Does Cinema Educate Our Youth?" 1913), Jan Kraskowski ("Educational Film and Its Meaning: Applications for High
      Schools, Colleges, Military Academies, Professional Schools, and General Education," 1922), and Leopold Blaustein
      ("The Educational Influence of Film," 1937) considered the impact of cinema on children. The university lectures
      of philosopher Roman Ingarden (The Literary Work of Art: An Investigation on the Borderlines of Ontology, Logic, and Theory of Literature, 1931, first published in
      German) in L'viv developed into a study group on phenomenology that included Blaustein, Bolesław Lewicki ("The
      Structure of Film," 1935), and musicologist Zofia Lissa (Music and Film, 1937). Tadeusz Peiper and Jalu
      Kurek ("The Tyranny of Chronology," 1932) worked on the relationship between poetry and film in Kraków in the
      interwar period. Still, much film writing of the period examines the relationship between film and history. For
      many early Polish film theorists, film was mainly a means of historical documentation, a representation of the
      contemporary world, a way to research the world, and an ingredient in the democratization of the country. Film
      theorists whose work touched on these issues included Belmont, Jan Stanisław Bystroń, Eugeniusz Cękalski, Tadeusz
      Dąbrowski, Irzykowski, Tadeusz Kowalski, Perzyński, Stępowski, Jerzy Toeplitz, Leon Trystan (Chaim Lejb Wagman),
      and Stefania Zahorska.
    

      At the heart of many of the theoretical debates that took place in the teens and twenties was a long-brewing
      argument over the addition of dialogue to motion pictures. Two articles published by Dąbrowski and Irzykowski
      just before World War I expose the main concerns, patent and latent, that were connected to various attempts to
      synchronize recorded sound with motion pictures.
    

      In his 1913 "Theater . . . of the Deaf-Mute," published in Gazeta lwowska (L'viv Daily), Dąbrowski had
      described the unexpected and unwelcome realization that silent film was dependent on pantomime while watching
      Oedipus the King: "There remained the funny impression that we all had suddenly found ourselves in an
      institute for the deaf-mute. Suddenly, we had forgotten about speech. Oedipus did not know how to speak either.
      His entire entourage did not speak at all. When they had something important to share, they pleaded with each
      other in gestures, speaking with their hands, eyes, and furrowed brows." He goes on to locate the source of his
      anxiety in silent film: "I could see from far away that they made a great effort to utter a sound from the
      larynx, in order to finally recover their speech. I rubbed my eyes, unsure whether it was a nightmare. One
      probably receives such an impression only in dreams, when one is quickly running away and his feet are leaden,
      when he calls for help and the voice in his throat, as in a greased hinge, withers." Dąbrowski hopes that
      filmmakers will develop a more sophisticated language of gestures, sounds, and intertitles for use in their
      productions. "In short, gestures are understandable only under certain conditions, in a concrete situation. Cinema must employ a verbal expression or a written clarification."40 He claims that old-fashioned
      patterns of expression from the theater are reappearing in the cinema and that by standardizing these means of
      communication, filmmakers could elevate the status of cinema and better placate audiences. "I think," he
      postulates, "that cinema will move in the direction of realism in the future."41


      Yet, when Dąbrowski considers the influence of dialogue on film narrative, he expresses new concerns.
      "Cinematograph and Kinetophone," published in Głos rzeszowski (Voice of Rzeszów) in the same year,
      questions whether the Kinetophone (Edison's synchronized sound system) would elevate the level of social
      prominence attached to cinema to that of the elite theater. Because theater relies on words, it requires viewers
      to consider the emotions and motives behind acts rather than the acts themselves. Dąbrowski writes of the
      theater, "Tragedy is not about someone killing someone. It is only about the chain of circumstances, the external
      and internal conditions of the action, and the way in which the subject reacts to the events that must have made
      the bloody deed inescapable. Contemporary art is a terrain on which the development of the conscience slowly
      takes place. . . . It is exactly this that the so-called broad public does not like." The difference, he claims,
      is the addition of spoken dialogue. This complicates the narrative, draws attention to characters' motivations
      and alienates viewers who would prefer sensationalism. "The kinetophone," he concludes, "will be art for the
      privileged, for the intellectual elite, while cinema will remain for the masses. That is, unless we begin to
      think of creating popular art for the kinetophone: Short one-acts, farces, operettas, and comedies that would be
      free from cultural ballast."42 The question that one must ask then, of course, is whether he is referring to early German
      sound films as this "cultural ballast," as would seem plausible.
    

      In his 1908-9 one-act play, Człowiek przed soczewką, czyli sprzedane samobójstwo (The Man behind the
      Lens, or Suicide for Sale), Irzykowski declared his preference for fiction film over documentary. Later, the
      writer lambasted the very idea of adding speech to motion pictures, claiming that movements rather than words
      create meaning in cinema. The difference between his work and that of his colleague reflects the authors'
      respective views on mass culture: Although both studied the work of the philosopher Stanisław Brzozowski and took
      issue with the Young Poland movement, Dąbrowski predicated his opinion on the idea that art could, and should,
      bring about a higher quality of life for the elites who were able to enjoy it.
      Irzykowski, however, was unwilling to concede so much privilege to life itself; he never hid his preference to
      lose himself in a fictional world. His 1913 essay "The Death of the Cinematograph?" was first published in
      Świat (World) and republished more than a decade later as the first chapter of his book of film theory,
      The Tenth Muse: Aesthetic Problems of Cinema.
    

      "The Death of the Cinematograph?" appeared on the heels of attempts by inventors—including Prószyński, Edison,
      and Oskar Messter—to synchronize moving images and recorded voices, some of which were demonstrated in the Polish
      lands. Locally, Aleksander Pruszko worked on one such apparatus between 1908 and 1909. A few years later,
      Eustachy Białoborski, Jan Gize, and Jan Szczepanik worked on various versions of the kinetophone.43 Irzykowski's fears concerning
      these inventions, like Dąbrowski's, might have had something to do with the projection of German sound films in
      those years. Explicitly, though, he claimed that sound films threatened the pleasant illusions that define
      cinema. He feared that sound filmmakers might try to replicate reality in their films instead of presenting the
      image as magical. In addition, Irzykowski worried that a transition from silent to sound film would transform the
      practice of going to the motion picture theater from one of integration to one of segregation.
    

      Irzykowski feared and loathed the very idea of talking film. He also made it clear that he distrusted any change
      in cinema, which for him had already experienced a "death" by 1913 with the experimental addition of synchronized
      sound. Every encounter of film with modern notions of industrialization and progress provoked suspicion and
      bitterness in Irzykowski. To him, film was otherworldly, spiritual, a phenomenon that could capture light and
      slow down the ocean's waves. His idea of cinematic duchowość, or spirituality, was, on one hand, an
      extension of his interest in German philosophy and, on the other hand, a unique perspective tied to his
      experiences as a member—albeit a disapproving one—of Young Poland. Before turning to cinema, Irzykowski had
      already called attention to the antisocial tendencies inherent in the desire of artists and writers to negate the
      social conditions of artistic endeavor, and he had been asking artists and thinkers to consider the connection
      between the Young Poland motto of "art for art's sake" and social revolution.
    

      In "The Death of the Cinematograph?" Irzykowski expressed his concern that the kinetophone might signal a return
      of the cinema to the theater, which then would lose its improvisatory and
      inimitable character. Silent cinema, he contended, is an art that society needs time to accept. It is the
      "visibility of movement," which sound could destroy by linking movement with voice rather than image.
    

      Irzykowski developed a thesis on the uniqueness of cinema in order to warn readers of the dangers of the
      kinetophone. He called cinema a "kingdom of movement" that represents a hitherto unrepresentable world of ocean
      waves, leaves, and people in motion. He extended this kingdom to include everything within time's grasp, such as
      emotions and states of mind, arguing, "Just as painting and architecture are the arts of stillness . . . so
      cinema is the art of movement."44 He implored readers to look for something other than realism in cinema, writing
    

      As in painting, the history that plays out in the [screen] image is not the main point. It is rather an occasion
      for the secrets of light and shadow to reveal themselves or the shades of color to play. . . . A concept that is
      tightly cinematic need not necessarily make movement a marginal part of a film but can make it the main
      subject. We can see how cinematic dramatists today—actually for sensation, but guided by an instinct toward
      sound—try to choose certain themes concerning movement, such as a struggle with a lion, automobile and locomotive
      races, a ship set to sea, a house on fire, or lightning striking someone, and put together various stories around
      them.45


      Cinema is not a pure art, Irzykowski contended, but an art in the making. He looked forward to animation, for
      example, to help cinema come into its own as an art form. Already in 1913, however, he mentioned that cinema
      would become an art only if it did not succumb to the pressure to add sound. Irzykowski expressed his sentiment
      through a comparison of cinema and poetry, writing that cinema and poetry constitute different systems of
      language. Poetry is, according to him, operated by word-symbols through which a poet reaches toward the truth
      about reality. In cinema, however, "nature appears bare and without the covering of human ideas." Words, he
      believed, could only distract from the communicative property of movement: "Does cinema surrender to the
      supremacy of the word? Or does it dominate it? Is the kinetophone a different art from cinema? We may be able to
      answer those questions in the near future. Will anyone answer them? Technical and commercial factors will
      certainly get in the way of this aesthetic experiment. And to complicate the
      matter even more, in fact, the poets who zealously occupied themselves with cinema before its turning point may
      rescue it or deal it a crushing blow."46


      "The Death of the Cinematograph?" did more than bring into the open the notion of film as a new form of
      communication. It introduced Irzykowski's ideas on filmowość, or photogénie, a concept that
      French theorists such as Jean Epstein would seriously debate after World War I. Irzykowski opened his magnum
      opus—a study of cinema as the expression not only of the secret life of material objects but of the human
      struggle with these objects—with it. This, in itself, is interesting, as it confirmed the author's trust in his
      ideas. Although these ideas were a reaction to the kinetophone during the final years of the partition period,
      they held true for Irzykowski through major changes in cinema and politics.
    

      Sfinks in the War
    

      World War I and the emigration of many filmmakers led to, among other things, the solidification of Sfinks's
      position in Warsaw filmmaking, the collapse of its competitors, and the strengthening of international bonds
      among filmmakers. Certain actors gained fame in silent films made in foreign lands: Soava Gallone and Helena
      Makowska in Italy, Pola Negri and Mia-Mara in Berlin, and Antoni Fertner in Moscow. Directors Danny Kaden (Daniel
      Kirschenfinkel) and Edward Puchalski polished their skills in Germany and Moscow, respectively, while Aleksander
      Reich and Zygfryd Mayflauer (Mayblum) worked in Austria. Caught in Palestine at the beginning of the war, camera
      operator Stanisław Sebel found work in Moscow until he was able to return to Warsaw.
    

      The extent to which the experience of war affected cinema production in Poland became apparent in the propaganda
      films that came soon after. Glorified scenes of victories in postwar production seemed possible—or, at least,
      credible—because of filmmakers' wartime experiences. During World War I, the armies of the empires drafted local
      camera operators. Aleksander Jasielski filmed the war for the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Eugeniusz Modzelewski,
      Piotr Nowicki, and Jan Skarbek-Malczewski did the same for the Russian Empire.47 Franciszek Zyndram-Mucha chronicled the fighting of the Second Polish Brigade. Skarbek-Malczewski's experience illustrates the
      incongruity of the situation: "On the second day, the tsar visited a broken-down Austrian fort. Forewarned, I
      went to the fort and set up my camera. When he arrived with his entourage, I started to film. Nicholas
      scrutinized me carefully. It was then that I saw a Russian autocrat for the first time; he did not look
      impressive. When the entourage moved on, I ran around it, and when the tsar descended from the fort, I was in the
      right place and filmed again. After developing and copying the film, it turned out very well, and—as I soon
      learned—I was to receive a special award in the form of a gold watch from the tsar. . . . But later the
      revolution erupted and . . . the devils took my watch."48


      The war also influenced the public personas of people involved in the film industry. In the rare instances of
      feature filmmaking that took place during the war, original screenplays almost completely replaced adaptations.
      One exception is Kosmofilm's Zayn vaybs man (Małżeństwo na rozdrożu; His Wife's Husband, 1913).
      Only about five feature films were made each year during the war, as production of newsreels about the events of
      the war all but replaced production of narrative films. Of all of the companies formed during the period between
      1908 and 1914, only Sfinks played a role in this documentation—an important detail, considering the company's
      influence on the development of cinema before and after the country gained independence. Hertz accomplished this
      by depriving his workers of part of their pensions49 and by realigning his political alliances. The German occupation of Warsaw, beginning
      in 1915, meant the end of Sfinks's recently cultivated connections with Russian and French production companies
      and the beginning of its relationship with German production companies, in particular with Projektions A.G. Union
      and UFA. Through these relationships, Hertz's new company (also called Sfinks) was able to secure a large, bright
      studio on the top floor of a building conveniently located on Plac Zbawiciela.50 These cooperative agreements also ensured that Sfinks was
      the only producer of fiction films between 1915 and 1918, when the company began to launch a minor star system
      that featured Helena Bruczówna, Mia-Mara, Negri, Junosza-Stępowski, and Józef Węgrzyn. Negri signed a two-year
      contract with Sfinks, during which she cultivated her persona: in several films, she played a desperate, overly
      sentimental woman-in-love moving in Warsaw's underworld circles. In this character, she starred in films such as
      Żona (The Wife, 1915), Bestia (Kochanka apasza; The Beast, 1917), and the serial
      Tajemnice Warszawy (The Mysteries of Warsaw, 1917). In 1917, Negri
      broke her contract with Sfinks and moved to Germany, where she starred in approximately twenty films over the
      next five years.
    

      Sfinks also began to specialize in propaganda films during World War I. These films were directed against the
      Russian tsarist regime and, in contrast to the Warsaw underworld portrayed in the melodramas starring Negri,
      presented a high-culture, elegant Warsaw. They include Ochrana warszawska i jej tajemnice (The Secrets
      of the Warsaw Secret Police, 1916), Carat i jego sługi (The Tsarist Regime and Its Servants, 1917), and
      Carska faworyta (The Tsar's Favorite, 1918). As their titles indicate, the focus of these films was the
      patriarchal relationship between the Russian aristocracy and the devastated, but deserving and hopeful, Polish
      aristocracy. Considered kitsch, these films mark a return to the jarmark of early cinema in their portrayal of a
      certain type of truth. Embedded in the very recent history very loosely re-created for these works of fiction was
      a promise of a grand future for the Polish nation.
    

      During the final phase of World War I, Sfinks continued to produce fiction films and increased its output of news
      event films. According to Banaszkiewicz and Witczak, "Shifting positions in the war, the growth of patriotic
      hopefulness, and interim Polish governments under the German occupation led to the unusual popularity of
      documentary films among the public at large."51 With or without Sfinks's cooperation, the partitioning powers and occupiers had control over
      war newsreels in the various parts of the partitioned lands. Audiences craved news reporting more than usual, and
      Sfinks attempted to satisfy their demands by documenting events such as the opening of Warsaw University (1915)
      and a May 3 memorial parade (1916) and by producing travelogues that gave Warsaw audiences a glimpse of cities,
      mountains, seas, and tourist destinations in other parts of the partitioned lands. The company made critical
      "reportage" films on the difficulties of daily life, such as Warszawa w chwili obecnej (Warsaw at
      Present, 1916) and Kraków w chwili obecnej (Kraków at Present, 1917). In 1918, with the support of the
      Polish Legion, Sfinks documented political and military events, including the December administration of oaths in
      the newly liberated Poland.
    

      Again, Sfinks did not have to compete with others for the right to film this administration of oaths, as every
      other pre-World War I company from the partitioned lands had ceased to exist by 1918. Because of its recording of
      the country's inauguration, however, Sfinks gained contracts to film most events taking place in the newly formed
      country, including national news. It also courted favor by making propaganda
      films for the new government. Sfinks's wartime monopoly ended in 1918, when new companies were formed and many
      people involved in filmmaking returned from abroad. Sfinks's ambitions and its immediate formation of ties to the
      new government—although they made the entrance of new filmmakers into the industry increasingly more difficult in
      the early interwar years—had a positive effect on domestic filmmaking as a whole. Screen appearances by leaders
      of the new Polish government drew citizens to motion picture theaters. Audiences, who lived as far north as Ełk
      and as far south as Zakopane, gathered to watch events taking place in Warsaw. Irzykowski had opened his 1913
      essay with a remark about the pointlessness of recording political events in order to predict the future. As it
      would turn out, though, these events were scrutinized mainly in their historical context and added to list of
      historical events reenacted for the camera in the first years of independence.
    










3
    

      From National Cinema to Cinema in the Nation-State, 1918-23
    

      Production, Exhibition, and Regulation in the Newly Independent Country
    

      IN AN ARTICLE PUBLISHED IN Ekran (Screen) in 1919, Jan Stanisław Bystroń describes the feeling of
      comfort and sense of mastery over an otherwise perplexing world that cinema offered its patrons as they rebuilt
      from World War I:
    

      Like a soldier, a cinemagoer is a kind of globetrotter, continually bored with constant change but, in spite of
      this, unable to settle in one place. Gone is the tranquility of the peaceful countryside, detached from the wide
      world; nothing is able now to surprise the rural man who gawked at the sight of a locomotive long ago. . . . In
      the same way that a returning emigrant from America does not return to his rural clothes, a film spectator
      quickly adopts a cosmopolitan appearance. He moves to the city and begins to feel better in a distant, even
      though it is foreign, place than in the nearby countryside that has not yet welcomed the enveloping tide that is
      leveling the globe. What is more, such a person not only is a tourist of the wide world on the screen but also
      knows the outward life of all the social classes, from the beggars to the plutocrats, and to the highest of the
      aristocrats; . . . in short, there is not a single environment that is not known to him.1


      Film in Poland in the immediate postwar period reflected the general state of the country: the desire to create a
      strong national film industry in the newly independent state was hampered by the continued uncertainty of
      borders, distribution problems, taxation and tariff dilemmas, and the plagues of financial instability and
      inflation. Although the 1921 constitution guaranteed freedom of speech
      (including the right of minorities to publish in their own languages), filmmakers suddenly found themselves at
      the mercy of both the dictates of government and the discriminating, though erratic, moral tastes of
      audiences.2 A law enacted
      in early 1919 gave the government control over the exhibition of films, including the licensing of motion picture
      theaters, taxation, and the censorship of all films.3 The film industry and the government fought the longest and most difficult battle over
      taxation, though censorship carried other dangers for filmmakers' work. The new government wanted to encourage
      patriotism and the formation of emotional ties among people formerly separated by the partitions. New programs
      funded propaganda films and documentaries that depicted the landscape and cultures of the country—aspects of life
      that the government expected everyone to enjoy.
    

      At the same time that it was funding propaganda films, however, the new government was making it more difficult
      than ever to produce and market fiction films. The leadership's answer to the enormous problem of rebuilding the
      economy after the war was to privilege industry by lowering the customs taxes on raw materials, at the same time
      raising customs on luxury items. As the postwar film industry took shape, distribution companies and cinema
      owners had much more incentive to project imported films rather than domestic films. Production dropped as the
      process grew burdensome and frustrating and as taxes hindered the work of production companies. Even though the
      number of feature films increased in these years—from six made by Sfinks in 1918 to twenty-two made by various
      companies in 1922—the survival rate for companies was low. Most of the new ones were ephemeral, lasting only as
      long as they could deal with the tax burden and afford to compete with the still-dominant Sfinks. With
      independence came moneymaking schemes such as private film schools, where students' tuition and labor funded
      films. At least fourteen of these scandal-prone schools existed in Warsaw alone in the 1921-22 academic year.
      However, their influence on the next generation of filmmakers was limited. Of more importance was the return of
      directors and camera operators from western Europe and Russia after the war. Together with a few ambitious
      newcomers, they searched for funding and attempted to invigorate the weakened industry.
    

      The stability of Sfinks in the early 1920s depended mainly on the importation of foreign films by its
      distribution affiliate. It faced problems with government censors, however, and, even more importantly, continued
      to misjudge audiences' ethical limits. Having encountered financial trouble in the first, crisis-laden year after the war, Sfinks concentrated on making sensational films. In 1919,
      the company found itself in a public scandal when it made the controversial Ludzie bez jutra (People
      without a Tomorrow), which recounted the tragic death of a popular local female actor, and Przestępcy
      (Criminals).4 Audiences and
      government censors alike held these films in low regard, claiming that they depicted real events too closely.
      This probably came as a surprise to Aleksander Hertz, who, having grown accustomed to documentary filmmaking
      during the war, may have expected audiences to enjoy fiction films based on real events. Having thrived even
      after the Meir Ezofowicz flap, Hertz had confidence in his own ability to predict audiences' likes and
      dislikes. That the reaction to wartime tragedy and peacetime tragedy was so different was nothing new, however.
      One was violence in the name of the nation, while the other was violence in spite of the nation. As the country
      rebuilt after the war, its citizens were making a sharp distinction between these types of images. Even the most
      ardent critics of the new polity seemed to agree, or at least remained silent, on this point.
    

      Hertz did not take this hint immediately, however. Because the film industry was not in a position—financial,
      social, or otherwise—to censor its own films to the government's satisfaction, the Ministry of Internal Affairs
      forced production and distribution companies to adjust their practices. Sfinks had been the only active
      production company during World War I, when it mainly made documentaries in accordance with the wishes of the
      German occupiers. Consequently, it had faced little censorship during the war. When it returned to fiction
      filmmaking after the war, it found itself in a different, less comfortable position. After several confrontations
      with censorship of its domestic productions, Sfinks felt the pressure acutely. On the other hand, as the major
      importer of German (in particular, UFA) films in Poland, Sfinks's distribution department gained from the
      government's handling of censorship. According to Władysław Jewsiewicki, "The censors allowed biased and
      destructive German films to be shown on one hand . . . and on the other hand, exaggerated their self-prescribed
      roles as defenders of morality. This affected films that were politically rather indifferent but that had
      artistic merit. . . . The proscriptive Warsaw censors led a constant battle with all progressive tendencies,
      which the public tied closely with not giving realism a voice."5


      Complicating this picture even further, two new companies formed in 1919 attracted returning emigrants in the
      film industry. Their stances on matters of nation building, willingness to show the negative sides of war, and
      openness to the Russian minority contrasted with other models of postwar
      behavior. The first of these companies was Biograf Polski, run by director and screenwriter Władysław Lenczewski.
      Biograf Polski's productions included some films that took on themes of the times, for example, Panna po
      wojnie (A Maiden after the War, 1919), about a young woman's trouble with finding a husband after the war.
      The second was Kinofilm, whose director, camera operator, and screenwriter Eugeniusz Modzelewski worked with
      Russian crew members. Kinofilm made Blanc et noir (Black and White, 1919) and Lokaj (The
      Servant, 1919) before most of its artists and technicians, facing financial and other difficulties, left to work
      in other countries.
    

      Increasing costs meant that film production fell to those with wealth and an appetite for risk. In 1921, the cost
      of producing a fiction film of average length (1,500 to 1,800 meters) and average production time (two to three
      months) was around $5,000 (U.S.).6 In the late 1920s, the cost of production doubled, in part because the length of films
      increased (to as much as 2,500 meters), and the production process became more complicated.7 As Natan Gross describes the changes
      after independence, "In the film industry not much had changed from prewar times. The equipment was old and there
      were not enough professionals, particularly directors and camera operators. Films were produced here and there by
      people who had the right amount of money at their disposal."8


      The most successful of the new production companies locked into the general burst of interest in all things fresh
      and all things national; they understood that the nation-building enterprise was potentially rewarding, both
      financially and politically. The most successful producers included Wiktor Biegański, Nina Niovilla
      (Petekiewicz), Henryk Szaro, and Franciszek Zyndram-Mucha, whose career in Poland included two films,
      Tajemnice Nalewek (The Mysteries of Nalewki, 1921) and Złodziej i dziewczynka (The Thief and
      the Girl, 1923). He also acted and was the founding editor of Film polski (Polish Film, 1923) before he
      traveled to Brazil, where he had intended only to make a film about Polish émigrés but stayed for almost a
      decade.
    

      Many of the new companies made only one or two films before disappearing entirely, although in some cases their
      directors, screenwriters, and camera operators went to work for other companies such as Estefilm, Ines Film,
      Polonia-Film, Vistula-Film, and Pierwsza Polska Spółdzielnia Kinematograficzno-Artystycznej-Artfilm,9 which was run by several well-known
      Polish writers, including Nobel laureate Władysław Reymont. These fledgling
      companies, which worked with new film laboratories such as Falanga, Argus, and Laborfilm, tended to imitate
      American models of advertising. For example, Leo-Film used a lion in its logo, evoking Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer's
      famous symbol. Writers involved in film production in the early postwar years addressed the need for interesting,
      accessible subjects by writing original screenplays and adaptations from literature, often relying on their own
      reputations or the interest in known titles for success. Advertisements in Film polski sought "literary
      works that lend themselves to filmmaking"—the periodical even created a department to aid studios in locating
      promising literary works for adaptation.10 Writers, however, needed practice in the art of adaptation and screenwriting.
    

      Although independence united the partitions, there was no easy way to integrate them. Infrastructure built under
      the empires continued to shape people's ways of life, and cinema exhibition practices were no exception. In spite
      of widespread nationalist sentiment throughout interwar Poland, there remained serious regional discrepancies in
      economic stability, population density, and transportation systems as well as in levels of education and
      tolerance for multilingualism. For this reason, the immediate tendency of distributors was to market regionally
      rather than nationally. Rather than marketing to speakers of a specific language or members of a specific social
      group—as would seem appropriate given the influence of, for example, UFA—distributors demarcated their
      territories according to former imperial lines. The main reason for this was the decision to buy less expensive
      licenses for particular regions rather than more expensive licenses for the country as a whole. At this time of
      uncertainty, only distributors in Warsaw felt secure enough in their marketing abilities to buy a license that
      covered the entire country. One consequence was that Warsaw quickly became the center of the film industry in
      interwar Poland. Other areas, particularly the former Galicia, reverted to trading with companies from the
      imperial regions, particularly Czechoslovakia and Austria.11


      These imperial regions, however, did not look exactly as they had before the war. As ethnic Germans fled western
      Poland, their industries were taken over by ethnic Poles. As Małgorzata Hendrykowska and Marek Hendrykowski write
      of Poznań, "Whereas in 1910 Poles had made up 53.82 percent and Germans 43.95 percent of the city's general
      population, in 1921 (when the number of the city's inhabitants climbed to 165,000), 94.3 percent of the
      population was Polish and 5.55 percent was German."12 In other regions, the movement of people from rural
      to urban areas triggered important changes in cinema exhibition.
    

      After the Polish-Soviet War, establishing a strong national economic infrastructure was Poland's primary aim. One
      way that government leaders dealt with the situation was to impose high tariffs on the importation of luxury
      items such as champagne, caviar, diamonds, perfume, automobiles, silk, and film stock. Because of the tariffs,
      many importers were inclined to smuggle films through the Free City of Danzig (Gdańsk) or the eastern border,
      creating headaches for officials and cinema owners. The yearly import of film was two million meters, or two
      copies each of five hundred to six hundred titles, though it is not clear whether smuggled films were included in
      this assessment. Estimates on the number of cinemas in the country range from four hundred to more than seven
      hundred for these years. Although it is not certain, it is most likely that importers chose films from the United
      States, Germany (sometimes starring emigrated actors), and Italy. Despite protests by intellectuals such as
      Antoni Słonimski, who wrote that customs imposts inhibiting the importation of foreign films would lead to a
      worsening in quality of domestic films, the luxury goods tariff was a tax that both cinema owners and audiences
      were expected to bear. Filmgoers paid a tax of 50 percent on the price of a ticket in 1919. This amount was
      raised to 100 percent for some audiences in the following year, though in reality the amount of tax differed
      according to the classification of film (domestic or foreign, educational or entertainment), locality (Warsaw's
      taxpayers were most heavily hit), and cinema (supercinema, first category, or second category). Unable to cope
      with the tax burden and unable to find an alternative, cinema owners unionized and threatened to strike. Despite
      of the threat, it was some time before the tax was changed. The government also implemented special temporary
      taxes for community projects, such as in 1921 for the reconstruction of an old theater originally designed for
      live performances.13


      Prohibitive tariffs and taxes on cinema tickets were only partially responsible for dwindling numbers of
      theaters, though. Domestic production levels were low, and quality was even lower, causing interest to wane at
      the same time that the country's new currency was devalued. Because it was unwilling to invest in the film
      industry until it had met the basic needs of citizens, the new government offered little help aside from funding
      some films that propagandized its preferred view of national history. The general financial and political
      situation hindered the development of a strong domestic film industry on all levels, from production to
      exhibition.
    

For You, Poland: The 1919-20 War in Film
    

      In his 1920 essay, "The House of Forgetting," Franciszek Pik Mirandola contemplates the role of cinema in the new
      country. Mirandola explains that the problems faced by society as it starts anew after the war are a type of
      chaos that results from individual, internal turmoil. Like Hertz, he compares spectatorship to drug addiction
      but, unlike Hertz, finds the relaxing effects of cinemagoing to be salutary. He claims, "Cinema is a house of
      forgetting, an opium smoking room, an atoll that is not poison but an unappreciated medicine, a medicine for the
      soul."14 The theretofore
      only imagined nation of Poland had become a modern nation-state with contested borders and chaotic politics. As
      Mirandola suggests, cinema may have offered patrons a refuge from the problems of living in a transitional
      political period and a break from their fragmented modern identities. If its interior was a haven, however, what
      lay outside its doors was far less stable. Cinema owners had to find a way to survive in the new economy and to
      take account of the changes in the size and tastes of audiences, which included people formerly considered
      imperial subjects, who now constituted national minorities. Although distribution and exhibition occurred on a
      local or regional level for the first few years of independence, film became a national affair in the process of
      building a nation-state.
    

      The idea that film may be used to document historical events, which can then be collected and stored for future
      identification, is among the oldest and most enduring of thoughts on film in Poland. First expressed by Bolesław
      Matuszewski in "A New Source of History" at the turn of the century, theories on historical uses for film
      anticipated the flood of documentaries that took place at critical moments in the history of the nation.
      Filmmakers in Poland had long invoked the authenticity of cinematic record in their fabrication of history. It
      was, perhaps, inevitable that a genre would emerge that combined elements of documentary and fiction in service
      of propaganda. In newly independent Poland, historical narrative films recalled events that had taken place
      during the independence movement as a means of garnering support for the country's present military adventures.
    

      Sfinks, ever artistically malleable and politically shrewd, quickly adopted the 1919-20 war between Poland and
      Soviet Russia as one of its major subjects. Sfinks was not only the major distributor of German films after the
      war but also the film industry's most enthusiastic adversary of Soviet Russia. Hertz's background may have had
      something to do with his eagerness to dispel Russian influence on Poland, but
      it is likely that money was an even more significant factor. The new government recognized film's potential uses
      as a tool for garnering support in the war. The Press Division of the Ministry of Military Affairs, the Ministry
      of Art and Culture, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs handed out subsidies for the production of propaganda
      films. When in 1919 the new government decided to support propagandist filmmaking, Sfinks seems to have jumped at
      the opportunity. The company made short war documentaries such as Jak to było (How It Happened, 1920).
      It also made news films celebrating independence, such as Obchód rocznicy wyzwolenia (A Celebration on
      the Anniversary of Independence, 1919), and historical figures, such as Obchód 100ej rocznicy śmierci
      Napoleona (A Celebration on the 100th Anniversary of the Death of Napoleon, 1921) and Obchód 125-lecia
      powstania Kościuszki (A Celebration on the 125th Anniversary of the Kościuszko Uprising, 1919). Finally,
      Sfinks made short documentaries of various patriotic events such as Pokaz tanków w Parku Sobieskiego (A
      Show of Tanks in Sobieski Park, 1919) and Marszałek Foch w Polsce i odsłonięcie pomnika ks. Józefa
      Poniatowskiego (Marshal Foch in Poland and Unveiling the Józef Poniatowski Statue) directed by Biegański in
      1923. An example of a patriotic feature film from the period is Sfinks's 1920 production of Bohaterstwo
      polskiego skauta (The Heroism of a Polish Boy Scout). The first film directed by Ryszard Bolesławski
      (Szrednicki), The Heroism of a Polish Boy Scout, featured Kazimierz Junosza-Stępowski as a Polish
      lieutenant, Edmund Gasiński (Eubich) as a German military commander, and Jadwiga Smosarska as the patriotic
      heroine. It premiered on the second anniversary of Poland's November 3 declaration of independence from Russia.
    

      Sfinks also continued to promote the careers of a small group of actors after World War I. For some, the roles
      that they played in propaganda films became their trademarks, and the actions of their characters formed a
      pattern for narratives throughout the interwar period. At the head of this group was Smosarska, whom Hertz
      typecast as a patriotic, dignified, sometimes religious woman full of goodness, love, and suffering—stereotypes
      that were historically associated with Polish women's wartime roles. As filmmaker and theorist Leon Trystan
      writes in Kinema, "She creates a specific cult of herself—a cult of the viewer for her true and
      ravishing talent. Her merits are the richness of her nuances, the simplicity and directness of her creations, her
      acting that is full of expression and emotion."15


As Smosarska's popularity grew, Sfinks created roles specifically for her, many
      of which ended with the suicide of her long-suffering character. One successful example was Tajemnica
      przystanku tramwajowego (The Trolley Stop Mystery, 1922), in which she played alongside her regular acting
      partner, Junosza-Stępowski. In this Cinderella story with an ironically tragic ending, Smosarska's character, a
      tailor, leaves her fiancé for a count, only to regret it when the count betrays her. Plagued with guilt and
      desperate over her romantic choices, she throws herself under a trolley. Her death brings about the count's own
      regret and guilt-driven suicide.
    

      The suicidal ending—whether a quick way of wrapping up a story, an accepted mode of eliminating a no longer
      useful character, a reaction against the Catholic Church's prohibition on suicide, or a commentary on how women
      were overlooked in society—became standard fare in interwar films, particularly in Sfinks productions. This
      frequent recourse to suicide endings did not reflect an actual rise in suicides among women in the country, and,
      as much as it may have reflected real social imbalance, it was just as indicative of the general lack of
      creativity and experience among screenwriters in the early 1920s as they grappled with the endings of their
      scripts. Even as actors prepared themselves to take on increasingly complex roles, many of the screenplays that
      they were given were unsophisticated, illogical, and unoriginal.
    

      Shortly after the war ended, Sfinks began collaborating with the Central Film Agency, formed in 1917 and led by
      Zyndram-Mucha, to make documentaries of the war effort, such as W odzyskanym Toruniu (In Reclaimed
      Toruń). New companies, including Polfilm and Orientfilm, took on similar projects. One of Polfilm's first
      projects was a documentary about an uprising, Oswobodzenie Księstwa Poznańskiego (The Liberation of the
      Duchy of Poznań).16
      Polfilm's nationalist Dla Ciebie, Polsko (For You, Poland, 1920), directed by Antoni Bednarczyk and
      funded by the Central Film Agency, fictionalized the Polish-Soviet War. For example, a horrific scene in which
      Russian soldiers enter a Polish village ends with the inhabitants being forced to burn their own houses. In
      another scene, the soldiers execute a Polish man by throwing him through a window. As in most films about the
      period, the women play volunteer nurses who defend their country while restoring the men to health.
    

      In the following year, Bolesławski directed the three-thousand-meter Cud nad Wisłą (Miracle on the
      Vistula) for Orientfilm. Miracle on the Vistula opens with a traditional Polish-Catholic celebration of
      Christmas Eve at a manor house and ends with a patriotic look at the events of the decisive August 1920 Battle of Warsaw, known throughout Poland as the Miracle on the Vistula because of
      the Polish army's unexpected victory. Also in 1921, Orientfilm hired Edward Puchalski to direct the lengthy
      Tragedia Rosji i jej trzy epoki (The Tragedy of Russia and Its Three Eras), in which the glamour of the
      Russian Empire is contrasted with the poverty of the tsar's subjects, and in particular with the experiences of
      one fictional family. Polish leaders appear in the film as political martyrs whose demise exacerbates the
      family's problems and increases its trust that the Polish nation will be redeemed through Catholic faith. The
      Ministry of Art and Culture also funded Orient film's Dwie urny (Two Ballot Boxes, 1921), which mixes
      documentary footage with fictionalized narrative about the referendum in Upper Silesia. Polfilm's Nie damy
      ziemi, skąd nasz ród (We Won't Give up the Land from Which Our Nation Came, 1920) was funded by the Ministry
      of Art and Culture.
    

      In L'viv, Nina Niovilla wrote and directed Tamara, also known as Obrońca Lwowa (Defender of
      L'viv), a romance set during the battle for L'viv in 1919. Niovilla's next projects, an adaptation of Adam
      Mickiewicz's ballad Czaty (The Guards, 1920) and Idziem do Ciebie, Polsko, matko nasza (We are
      Coming to Thee, Poland, Our Mother, 1921), the only films produced by the Giewontfilm company, promoted a
      romantic image of the Polish nation in the Ukrainian lands and among the highlanders of the Tatra Mountains,
      respectively. Another nationalist-patriotic film, the moralistic D'Elmoro: Walka o skarby (D'Elmoro: The
      Fight for the Treasure, 1922), directed by Jan Kucharski and produced for export by Ines Film, seems to
      acknowledge the need to create the image of an honorable, scrupulous Poland. In D'Elmoro, a Polish
      diplomat takes a bribe to destroy a Polish geology professor's proposal for industrializing his country. After
      stealing the plans, the diplomat kills the professor and, in a moment of remorse about his conspiracy against his
      nation, kills himself under the Poniatowski Bridge in Warsaw.17 The lack of enthusiasm for these films among audiences and
      critics perhaps reflected war's realities were too familiar for propaganda film to thrive so soon after World War
      I. Audiences clamored to see something other than war on the screen. Critics ridiculed the films.
    

      Other films in the era of propaganda were less formulaic. For example, the government hired Biegański to make two
      short films and one full-length film, Pan Twardowski (1921), in an effort to promote Polishness in the
      mixed German-Polish area of Upper Silesia. In the allegorical Pan Twardowski, a variant on the Faust myth, Biegański promoted an image of the nation more complex than depictions in
      other nationalist films of the period. Nymphs and witches stand in for the nation's friends and foes; names of
      eminent Polish artists replace those of ineffectual leaders. Aleksander Grzybowski, too, received government
      support to create several short animated films at this time, although he was known in the film industry mainly
      for the movie posters that he created for the Uciecha cinema.
    

      The government's emphasis on film in the nation-building project expanded opportunities to exhibit certain types
      of films, as well. Students were encouraged to attend projections of nationalist educational films. Writing in
      Ekran, Kino, and Film polski, educators and writers such as Mirandola debated the use of film
      in classroom and other educational settings. A major proponent of educational film, pedagogue Jan Kraskowski
      enthusiastically outlined projects such as a cinema-school for rural schoolchildren.18 Although the cost of such projects placed them
      out of the reach of already-hesitant rural schools, the great amount of publicity that they received indicates
      that the idea of teaching history and other subjects through film was spreading across the country. In 1922, the
      government, intending to "support educational, scientific, and artistic exhibitions as well as to fight
      demoralizing shows," formed the Institute for Light Exhibitions.19


      The historical narrative films that appeared immediately after the First World War demonstrate a blandness
      unrivaled by films of any other period. After the destruction and emigration brought on by the war, the film
      industry found itself in tatters. The government, guided both by intuition and by the experiences of its
      neighbors, reached for propaganda films in order to build support for its efforts. Its lack of success
      demonstrates how complex the political situation actually was. On one level, a fundamental concept of the Polish
      nation was firmly in place, and strengthening that nation remained an imperative in the country as a whole. On
      another level, however, the vision of what this country should be was still blurry for some, but sharp and
      unyielding for others. In a way, these films explain the transformation in the popular understanding of
      propaganda in eastern Europe in the first half of the twentieth century. The government funded propaganda films
      because it assumed that the films would show the country in all of its greatness, but as filmgoers took note of
      the differences between the greatness shown on film and their reality, the term came to be associated with
      deception.
    

The War of the Intertitles
    

      At the end of World War I, the Treaty of Versailles forced Germany to return to Poland the territories it had
      occupied during the partition era. Acknowledging that their businesses were no longer viable in the new climate,
      the three remaining German-owned cinemas in Bydgoszcz closed temporarily. This left only the Teatr Union, a
      Polish-language-only establishment, with relative influence. Cinema owner Wacław Michał Szkaradkiewicz had long
      sought to change the established view among Polish speakers that cinema was an unwelcome import from Germany.
      Around the time that he sold the Union to Kazimierz Marczewski in February 1920, the new government began to
      enforce censorship laws designed to influence films' political and didactic content and to suppress the German
      language in the region by requiring that intertitles appear in Polish or in Polish and German simultaneously.
      According to Mariusz Guzek, the first domestic film shown in the theater was Krwawy terror (The Bloody
      Terror), which the firm Polish-American Film Editions K. S. Rimoritch had made during the Polish army's Kiev
      campaign in the Polish-Soviet War. Marczewski advertised the film as W mętach bolszewizmu (In the Dregs
      of Bolshevism) and published a poem attacking his competitors in Dziennik bydgoski:
    

      In the dregs of Bolshevism! I look in disbelief
    

      Today they protest the newest films in the Union Theater
    

      Clean air—a charming auditorium
    

      The Union plays enchanting music
    

      Countrymen! Support one of your own
    

      It is embarrassing for a Pole to go to a Jewish cinema.
    

      As law required, Marczewski projected the film with Polish intertitles.20


      It is difficult not to notice that Marczewski substitutes "Jewish" for "German" in his advertisement. Ostensibly
      directed against a single religious and ethnic minority, in reality the term "Jewish" indirectly targeted
      non-Catholic Poles and all Germans. Although it is plausible that the owners of motion picture theaters in
      Bydgoszcz might have been Jewish, there is no evidence that specifically anti-Jewish discrimination would have
      drawn more attention for the publicity-seeking Marczewski than anti-German discrimination. Marczewski's poem is
      more than a call to boycott cinemas owned by Jewish Poles; it is an injunction against patronizing establishments
      owned by any member of a minority group. It represents a problem that existed
      throughout the former empires, that is, certain non-Jews' use of the term "Jewish" when encouraging ill will
      against any minority group or individual. Presumably unwilling to bear the financial consequences of offending
      Germans directly, but still angry over the politics of the Weimar Republic, Marczewski directed his invective
      toward Jews. His poem offers a prime example of the complexity of ethnic vilification in the interwar period.
    

      The "war of the intertitles" continued. Cinema owners who refused to project films with Polish-only intertitles
      or who hired German speakers faced accusations of belittling the Polish language. The owners of all of
      Bydgoszcz's cinemas—the major ones included Kristall-Palast (known as Kristal beginning in 1920), Marysieńka,
      Nowości, and Corso—dealt with language conflict constantly. The Atlantic cinema, which showed German films with
      Polish intertitles, lasted only from 1922 to 1923. Guzek notes that the owner of a cinema that projected
      intertitles simultaneously in German and Polish hired a Polish-speaking usher to quell criticism that he did not
      show sufficient respect to the Polish language. Another topic of concern was the improper grammar used in the
      Polish titles and intertitles. For this, the local censors, rather than cinema owners, faced criticism. Even if
      these lapses were results of hasty composition, some blamed inadequate government controls over translators for
      the poor grammar and style of intertitles.21


      Film production continued in Bydgoszcz in the years immediately after World War I. Polonia-Film made four
      features, Car Dymitr Samozwaniec (Dymitr Samozwaniec; The False Dmitri; Demetrios, 1921, based
      on Aleksander Pushkin's Boris Godunov), Ostatni człowiek (The Last Man, 1922), Diabelski
      most (The Devilish Bridge, 1922), and Gabby złote łóżko; Złote łóżko Gabby; Gabby'ego złote łóżko
      (Gabby's Golden Bed, 1922), all directed by Maksymilian Hauschild. Hauschild made three documentaries in 1922, as
      well, on Polish industry in Upper Silesia, new technology, and sport. His deep involvement in the local film
      scene extended to his Kino-Ogród, a garden where he projected at least some films with Polish and German
      intertitles in blatant disregard for public opinion. Accusations of spying for Germany followed him.22


      In this tense atmosphere, it is not surprising that only a few filmmakers undertook German-Polish coproductions.
      Władysław Dworkowski's Dwor-Film coproduced a talkie, Przewodnik z Zakopanego or Bergführer von
      Zakopane (A Tour of Zakopane) in 1931. Directed by Józef Lejtes in Polish and Domenico Gambino in German, the title was eventually changed to Burza nad Zakopanem or
      Sturm über Zakopane (A Storm over Zakopane). Another company, Patzer-Film, made several documentaries in
      the mid-1920s. Subjects included a presidential visit to Bydgoszcz, an automobile race, and tours of local
      factories. In Katowice, a German-Polish local film studio, Polonia-Film, completed two German-language films:
      Die katholische Jüdin (The Catholic Jewess) and Die Leiden des oberschlesischen Volkes (The
      Sufferings of the People of Upper Silesia).23


      In the first years after independence, Polish-language newspapers in the areas that had been part of the German
      Empire often accused the German minority of controlling film distribution and exhibition. Hendrykowska and
      Hendrykowski note that it was possible to consider the interruption of cooperation with western firms during
      World War I, the low cost of renting German films, and the growth of UFA disadvantageous for Polish culture. They
      claim that the "war of the intertitles" was a result of the larger battle against the expansion of German
      culture, to which they add conflict over the "typical pornography" in German exports: "At a certain moment, the
      problem with intertitles and pornographic films grew to the point that there were demands in the press that the
      former Prussian region undergo the rigor of censorship by the Press Department of the Ministry of the Interior in
      Warsaw. This was because the German minority did not respect either officially written contracts or adhere to the
      demands of Polish society in matters of censorship and Polish-German intertitles in motion pictures."
      Hendrykowska and Hendrykowski explain that the Poznań police forbade the projection of films with exclusively
      German intertitles at the end of 1919, while the conflict over sexually explicit films continued until the
      mid-1920s.24 Although some
      motion picture theaters continued to show films with only German intertitles, Polish intertitles were of such
      importance to Polish-speaking audiences in Poznań that the action resulted in spontaneous protests and police
      intervention.25


      Intertitles also played a role in a Berlin-affiliated distribution company's policy of bringing films to its
      Gdańsk office, copying Polish intertitles onto them, and then marketing them in Poland. The company claimed that
      because the films were made in Germany and the intertitles were finished in Gdańsk, the films were made in both
      countries and, therefore, could not be considered—or taxed as—either German or Polish productions. Within a year,
      legislation was enacted to avoid these problems, but their temporary existence
      underscores the difficulty of putting together a national film industry in the newly independent country.
    

      Hendrykowska and Hendrykowski write that people in the provinces were thirsty for Polish language and culture.
      Traveling cinema in rural areas, they claim, fulfilled an educational and propagandist role.
    

      Institutions such as Iskra—at once, a traveling cinema and 'a company with limited liability' established in 1919
      in Poznań—were supposed to spread Polish culture and education through cinema in the countryside. Its founders,
      Konstanty and Wanda Wysocki, aimed mainly to broaden education in areas far from Polish cultural centers with the
      help of pictures, which a specially qualified commission evaluated and chose. The Wysockis' initiative was
      unusually significant in light of the fact that German traveling cinema prospered perfectly in some areas. . . .
      The press repeatedly informed readers that this type of 'enterprise' cultivated strong anti-Polish agitation in
      the countryside by showing films that made Poland look repugnant.26


      In the rest of Poland, the notion that censorship could be used in support of peaceful relations in motion
      picture theaters persisted in the first years of independence. Antoni Marczewski writes in 1925 that the
      government should censor films that threaten public safety or lead to riots. Perhaps taking into consideration
      the vast differences in levels of tolerance, he also proposes that censors keep in mind the local social
      conditions for exhibition, a so-called "preventative censorship."27 His comment is underscored by Biegański, who writes of the
      relationship between local taxation and local censorship,
    

      Many of my memories are connected to my 1925 production of the film The Vampires of Warsaw. Two motion
      picture theaters in L'viv belonged at the time to the Kuchar brothers, who bought my Vampires. The local
      authorities, however, had the right to place taxes on films and depending on the amount of the tax, the film
      would become a certain source of income or it would result in a deficit for the film production industry in
      Poland. The president of the city of L'viv set a 30 percent tax on Vampires. So I went to L'viv to try
      to convince him of the necessity of reducing the tax to 10 percent. I told him about the importance of developing
      the film industry, described the arduous conditions under which we work, and explained how much effort we put
      into our work. After a long discussion, he said that even though he could understand our efforts, he had never
      been in the cinema in his life (in 1925!). Moreover, he did not lower the tax. The Kuchar brothers removed the
      film from their screens. The local commission in Warsaw also placed a 30
      percent tax on The Vampires of Warsaw, but they were motivated by a completely different, even stranger
      reason. One of the members of the commission (a former landowner) after watching the film asserted that it is
      entirely out of the question that in the Polish manor in which the action of the film took place, an old lackey
      would wear synthetic pants with a black jacket. And that concern was the deciding factor in raising the
      tax.28


      Works of Yiddish literature, which had been the basis for many films before the war, were rarely adapted for the
      screen in the first years of independence. Sfinks had digested all of the prewar companies active in this type of
      filmmaking, and new companies did not immediately take to it. They may have found it difficult to create a space
      for adaptations from Yiddish literature because writings in Yiddish did not engage in the exact type of
      patriotism—Polish-speaking, piously Catholic, friendly to Jews, distrustful of Russians—that postwar producers
      assumed would satisfy most audience members. Because heroes of Yiddish literature are often pacifists and
      conquerors on the battlefield only by accident, if at all, they had little to offer producers interested in
      garnering support for the Polish-Soviet War. Yiddish literature and theater flourished in these years,
      particularly in Warsaw and Kraków, but films based on Yiddish literature were not yet a part of the film scene.
    

      When films based on Jewish life did return, they were, as they had been before the war, the domain of relatively
      small companies. According to Gross, "The initiative to present a Jewish theme, with the tendency toward close
      Polish-Jewish relations, came from the Polish film circles."29 These films were based not on Yiddish texts but on
      sensationalist narratives of life in Jewish communities written originally in Polish or in an informal
      combination of Polish and Yiddish. Gross names Tajemnice Nalewek (The Mysteries of Nalewki, 1921),
      directed by Zyndram-Mucha and starring Leon Trystan (the filmmaker and theorist), as the first such film. Others
      came from Leo Forbert, who made his debut in late 1922 with the founding of his production company, Meteor. His
      first two films, Ludzie mroku (People of the Darkness, 1923) and Syn szatana (The Son of Satan,
      1923), directed by Bruno Bredschneider, were original screenplays. In making these films, Forbert drew on the
      talents of his cousin, Seweryn Steinwurzel, who became one of the country's premier camera operators in the next
      decade.
    










4
    

      The Golden Years of Silent Cinema, 1923-29
    

      The Producer in the Nation: Maria Hirszbejn and Aleksander Hertz
    

      WHEN GOVERNMENT FUNDING FOR PATRIOTIC films waned in the mid-1920s, domestic production fell into a period of
      financial deficit but also lacked inspiration, creativity, and dynamism. Although producers completed
      approximately sixteen films in 1922, they made eleven in 1923 and only eight in 1924. The lowest point came in
      1925, with the release of a mere five fiction films. New directors and camera operators lacked training, and
      moves to modernize the technology were slow. Proponents of the sense of community afforded by the geographic
      proximity of studios, laboratories, and theaters—as well as those who held tightly to hopes of reversing the
      decrease in government support for filmmaking—offered deprivatization as a solution. In early 1925, Ryszard
      Bilski and Teodor Mosdorf proposed the creation of a national film studio; the idea quickly gained momentum in
      the trade journals. In an article describing the initiative, the editors of Kino-teatr dla wszystkich
      (Cinema-Theater for Everyone) explain that, according to Bilski and Mosdorf, the quantity and quality of domestic
      production was low because, "national production mainly occurs in the arena of individual exploitation and
      speculation by people whose cultural and moral levels rule out the serious treatment of subject
      matter."1 They contended
      that a lack of funding and inability to compete with foreign producers restrained and obstructed sincere
      filmmakers. Though passionate in their arguments, Bilski, Mosdorf, and their colleagues were unable to convince
      the government or the film industry at large that such a studio was financially feasible. Lacking adequate
      support, the movement eventually fizzled, and they shelved the idea.
    



        Rialto motion picture theater in Warsaw in the 1920s. Archiwum Akt Nowych
      


      Enthusiasts for a national production studio suggested that the main reason for the low level of domestic
      production was the lack of adequate financial support from the government. They envisioned the studio as a place
      for talented filmmakers to be free of the constraints imposed by a competitive industry—free to make the types of
      films that appealed to them but were unlikely to appeal to a broad audience. They did not accept the idea that
      competition improved domestic production, and the downward trend in the early 1920s indicates that they were
      correct. The predominance of high-quality foreign films in cinemas in Poland did not translate into high-quality
      domestic production. Sfinks had earned its position in the industry by doing exactly what the proponents of a
      national studio decried—that is, creating audiences for formulaic films with broad appeal. There are, however,
      two other reasons for the decline. First, most independent producers and directors in the early 1920s made no
      more than two films in their careers and therefore lacked the experience required to make films on par with
      foreign films. Second, the major figures in the industry paid more attention to
      what they perceived to be the desires of mass audiences for the genre of the moment than to their own artistry.
    

      It was the gradual elimination of government funding for filmmaking, though, that crippled the industry. Of
      approximately twenty-four production companies formed in these years, only two—Sfinks and Leo-Forbert (Meteor,
      Leo-Film, Forbert-Film, Forbert Film, and Efes-Film)—lasted into the 1930s. Production companies based outside
      Warsaw, such as Poznań's Diana-Film, also encountered obstacles.
    

      For a number of reasons, systematic experimentation in silent cinema took place only after the transition to
      sound. Independent producers may have had greater knowledge and curiosity about the aesthetics of filmmaking, but
      the extraordinary difficulty of making and marketing their own films hampered their efforts. Only one, Wiktor
      Biegański, managed to create an ambitious body of work. Władysław Banaszkiewicz and Witold Witczak consider his
      work representative of a trend toward "cinematic" film because of his use of sets that would be difficult to
      replicate in staged theater. In films such as Otchłań pokuty (Abysses of Penance, 1923) and
      Orlę (The Little Eagle, 1926), Biegański used the Tatra Mountains as the backdrop (for example, the
      highland lake Morskie Oko), capturing it from multiple points of view. He also created new ways of thinking about
      camera placement, for example, shooting the final scene in The Little Eagle from an airplane in order to
      simulate an eagle's flight. Although highly acclaimed by critics such as Karol Irzykowski, Biegański's films did
      not draw the widespread public support that would have allowed them to compete in movie theaters with films made
      by the still-dominant Sfinks. As a cofounder (with Stanisława Wysocka and Kazimierz Kamiński) of a film school
      run by the production company Kino-studio and as the founder of the Film Institute, however, Biegański did leave
      his mark on the next generation of filmmakers. The director of the first sound film in Poland, Michał Waszyński
      (Waks), was one of his students.2


      In comparison with Biegański's films, Sfinks productions lacked originality and creativity. In addition, Sfinks's
      actors remained entrenched in theatrical methods, and its screenplays were outdated. Aleksander Hertz's open
      disdain for his customers manifested itself in an unwillingness to challenge them to think critically about the
      aesthetic possibilities of cinema. Yet none of these perceived shortcomings stopped the company from dominating
      an industry that sagged under its financial burdens. In order to keep afloat, Hertz retained his favored actors
      and repeated previously successful narratives. Noting a dropping level of
      interest in candidly patriotic and tragic films, Sfinks turned to more subtly patriotic melodramas, such as the
      1923 Niewolnica miłości (The Slave of Love), directed by Jan Kucharski, which featured Jadwiga Smosarska
      as the tragedy-bound lover of a young squire. A year later, Smosarska starred in a similar Sfinks story, O
      czym się nie mówi (The Unspeakable), directed by Edward Puchalski and based on the novel by Gabriela
      Zapolska. The director-actor pair returned in 1926 for O czym się nie myśli (The Unthinkable), about the
      tragic love of a wealthy musician for a disreputable young woman. These melodramas, while relatively popular,
      lacked ingenuity and originality, and reviewers were harsh. Irzykowski, for example, noted in Wiadomości
      literackie (Literary News) that the metaphors that Zapolska used in her novel were translated so literally
      into the visual medium that they lost their appeal and sense. One line from the novel, "There is an entire legion
      of such seducers," was presented in the film as a dozen or so mirror images of the same seducer.3


      Undeterred by criticism of his methods, Hertz used his business sense to remain at the top. He brought new
      financiers into the picture and tested audiences' tastes in narrative. For the 1925 production Iwonka,
      directed by Emil Chaberski and based on the novel by Juliusz German, Hertz transformed the production department
      of his company into a cooperative, which he called Film Polski. In this way, he expanded the possibilities for
      financing films while maintaining hegemony over the industry. He also expanded his range of genres and
      Smosarska's roles. In Iwonka, for example she plays an innocent, orphaned young teacher happily in love
      with a cavalry officer. Hertz rightly suspected that the cheerfulness of Iwonka was just what the
      audiences craved. One of the longest-running and best-received films of the middle years of the 1920s was the
      Sfinks adaptation of Helena Mniszkówna's novel, Trędowata (The Leper, 1926), directed by Puchalski and
      Józef Węgrzyn. Hertz once more cast Smosarska in a tragic role: a respectable, good-hearted teacher who falls in
      love with a nobleman. When his aristocratic family does not accept her, she suffers discouragement and,
      eventually, dies of meningitis.
    

      In 1922, Leo Forbert began to compete with Hertz. A professional photographer with a keen business sense and good
      connections in the film industry, Forbert was so successful that his company, Meteor, was the only one to outlive
      Sfinks, surviving until the beginning of World War II. According to his cousin Seweryn Steinwurzel, Forbert
      founded Meteor simply because "he figured out that film was a good business."4 Forbert was the first postwar producer interested in making films with which both Jews and Catholics could identify. As
      Leo-Forbert, his company produced a Jewish-subject film featuring Ester Rachel Kamińska and Ida Kamińska and
      directed by Zygmunt Turkow, Tkies kaf (Ślubowanie; The Wedding Vow, 1924). Forbert-Film's 1929
      In di poylishe velder (W lasach polskich; In the Polish Woods) was an adaptation of a popular
      1921 Yiddish novel (translated into Polish in 1923) by emigrant writer Joseph Opatoshu, who had been living in
      the United States since 1907. The action of the film takes place in the mid-nineteenth century. For this most
      popular of Forbert's films, the producer chose Henryk Bojm as screenwriter, Ferdynand Vlassak as camera operator,
      and Jonas Turkow as director. He also chose a mix of Jewish and Catholic actors to convey the novel's point that
      both of these religious and social groups had fought together against the partitioning empires. He assumed that
      audiences were aware of the actors' backgrounds and that they would associate their work together in the film
      with the type of cooperation that had taken place in the depicted historical moment.
    

      In 1926, Maria Hirszbejn acquired a controlling interest in Forbert-Film, changed the name of its studio to
      Leo-Film, and began a long career as the most powerful woman in filmmaking in Poland. In 1927, she helped found
      the Union of Polish Film Producers; she served on its board beginning in 1928. This umbrella organization
      included producers, cinema owners, laboratory owners, directors, and crew members. Along with the Union of Motion
      Picture Theaters and the Polish Union of Film Industrialists, it helped to stabilize the industry. It also
      allowed for greater participation by professionals and debuts by new filmmakers, who were encouraged by the many
      independent, informal film clubs and social circles of artists interested in filmmaking that sprouted around it.
    

      Most of Leo-Film's fourteen productions enjoyed critical and commercial success. As a producer, Hirszbejn
      established ties with Bolesław Land and Marta Lanz when they came to Poland from Vienna; their ability to move
      between Poland and Austria became important during the transition to sound. Although both were active in the
      city's Yiddish cultural life, Hirszbejn and Forbert also made films from screenplays written in Polish, based on
      Polish novels, and starring Polish-speaking actors. The first of these was Czerwony błazen (The Red
      Clown, 1926). Adapted from a novel by Aleksander Błażejowski, with Henryk Szaro as director and Seweryn
      Steinwurzel as director of photography, The Red Clown starred Helena Makowska and Eugeniusz Bodo as cabaret actors involved in a criminal scandal. In 1927, Hirszbejn and Szaro
      made Zew morza (The Call of the Sea), a story about a prodigal son who returns to his parents' home to
      find his childhood love promised to another man. Hirszbejn's 1928 production Kropka nad i (The Finishing
      Touch) was the first film shot on panchromatic film in Poland. This original screenplay about the love of a young
      homeless woman and a well-intentioned but incompetent man in a sad, gray Warsaw was an attempt to integrate the
      ideologies of the art film movement into commercial film. Its average characters and gloomy landscape were an
      affront to the concept of entertainment cinema. Although some considered it overly sentimental, it received very
      enthusiastic reviews. Hirszbejn also produced silent historical fiction and nine sound films. Juliusz Gardan
      directed Leo-Film's 1929 Policmajster Tagiejew (Police Chief Tagiejew), a political melodrama based on a
      novel by Zapolska, which portrayed the persecution of Poles by the Russian tsar in the mid-nineteenth century.
      One of the most "star-studded" films of the year, Police Chief Tagiejew featured Bodo, Maria Bogda,
      Adolf Dymsza (Bagiński), Nora Ney, and Zbigniew Sawan, all captured by Steinwurzel. Among her most important
      accomplishments as a producer was Aleksander Ford's (Moyshe Lipshutz) Legion ulicy (Legion of the
      Street, 1932).
    

      Hirszbejn and Hertz almost seem to have lived in different societies. Citing public opinion, Hertz avoided
      placing Jews (with the exception of himself) in visible positions in his company; Hirszbejn actively recruited
      religious and secular Jews to work on all of her films. Hertz's heavy hand and role in his scandal-prone company
      are legendary; Hirszbejn remained entirely behind the scenes and claimed the title of executive producer as often
      as that of producer. Educated in Łódź and Berlin, Hirszbejn welcomed the cultural and linguistic diversity of
      independent Poland. She began working in the film industry in 1924, around the time of The Wedding Vow,
      and her dedication to making films based on Yiddish works of literature was obvious. There is little evidence of
      Hirszbejn's philosophy toward filmmaking or politics, however. Unlike Hertz, she did not leave her mark in other
      people's memoirs or give cause for speculation about her political activities. There are few pictures of her and
      little mention of her in the writings of others. Although she perished in the war, the year of her death is
      uncertain. Her company was the only one to rival Sfinks throughout much of the interwar period, yet her legacy
      does not fit her accomplishments as a businesswoman and producer of culture.
    

Hirszbejn was out of the public eye. Hertz, on the other hand, depended on it.
      While it is important to note that it was possible, as Hirszbejn proves, to become relatively successful in the
      film industry in Poland without becoming a public figure, it is also important to study producers' careers in
      light of Irzykowski's law of the looking glass. For producers and actors alike, stardom depended on the "mystical
      possessiveness" through which spectators associate seeing with owning. Hertz's name appears in every major
      newspaper, magazine, and trade journal of the time. His presence was such that both audiences and critics
      accepted him as one of their own, a member of their community. Even if they questioned his decisions and
      alliances, they never felt that he was out of their control because they saw him, heard from him, criticized him,
      and saw him again. His visibility was his greatest asset—other than his predictability—and it took him much
      further than Hirszbejn or any other producer of the interwar period.
    

      The Final Years of Silent Cinema
    

      In the final years before the transition to sound, the rate of growth in domestic film production increased only
      slightly. Yearly production peaked at only sixteen films—the same number as in 1922—before it dropped to five
      films in 1925 but rose to six in 1926, nine or ten in 1927, and eventually to twelve full-length films in 1928.
      What feature filmmaking lacked in quantity and interesting content, however, it made up for in improved technical
      quality in the second half of the decade. For the first time, filmmakers in Poland studied and, to a limited
      extent, imitated the advances and discoveries made by foreign filmmakers from the East and the West. Likewise,
      public and critical interest in Sergei Eisenstein's Battleship Potemkin (1925), which appeared on
      screens in Poland in 1927, prompted filmmakers to think about employing montage sequences in their films and
      critics to battle over the "social usefulness" of film against its possible artistic goals. There was also an
      explosion of interest, fear, and excitement inspired by the news from America about advances in sound film
      technology. Critics noted this slow but steady improvement. Stefania Zahorska, writing in the prestigious
      literary magazine Wiadomości literackie (Literary News), claimed that each new film was better than the
      last and that the concurrence of improvements in technology, direction, cinematography, and screenwriting with
      public debate over the social and artistic aspects of filmmaking helped propel
      a new and erratic, but ultimately mature era in filmmaking.5


      The death of Aleksander Hertz in January 1928 overwhelmed the industry. Hertz had been a financially perceptive,
      willful, and competitive figure throughout the silent period, and his assumption that the most sensational
      stories played out by well-promoted movie stars would draw audiences even to domestic films had shaped the
      industry.
    

      Yet Hertz's death coincided with more than the spread of Józef Piłsudski's sanacja movement. It came at the time
      of the transition to sound film in the United States and of rising interest in foreign experimental films and
      Soviet montage. The future of the industry depended in part on the ongoing survival of the powerful company.
      Henryk Finkelstein, former owner of the pre-World War I production company Kosmofilm, which had been ingested by
      Sfinks in 1915, replaced Hertz as director of Sfinks in 1928 and held to Hertz's line. Finkelstein had little
      interest in the experimentation in abstract filmmaking that appealed to others in the industry in the late 1920s
      and early 1930s. He wanted Sfinks's films to attract the largest possible audiences and felt that the best way to
      accomplish this was to make films with straightforward, contingency-based narratives and performances by
      high-profile movie stars. His opinions clashed with those of critics, an avant-garde film movement, and a group
      of social-minded filmmakers, known as the creators of so-called artistic films, who began to work in the late
      1920s. In a 1929 interview in Kino dla wszystkich (Cinema for Everyone), he warned, "Those who assume
      that one should make artistic films are crazy because they do not take into account the specific conditions of
      production. In addition, those who voice their opinions that it is possible to make artistic films in Poland are
      simply daydreaming fanatics with their heads in the clouds. They are propagating theories that are harmful
      because they are thoroughly false."6 By "artistic films," Finkelstein meant films that examined social problems, particularly the
      problems of people living in difficult economic conditions, as well as films that reached beyond the standard,
      established narrative formulas. He targeted avant-garde and socialist filmmakers because he felt that they did
      not share his respect for capitalism in the film industry. In a way, he was toeing the establishment line by
      expressing anti-Russian prejudices.
    

      Sfinks was Hertz, though. After the producer's death, the company slowed production dramatically. Its meager
      output included Mieczysław Krawicz's 1929 Grzeszna miłość (Sinful
      Love) and Szaro's 1933 adaptation of a novel by Stefan Żeromski, Dzieje grzechu (The Story of Sin). In
      the years leading up to World War II, Sfinks leased its studio and laboratory to some of the most courageous
      filmmakers of the sound period, including Ford and Joseph Green (Józef Grinberg). Whether its involvement in the
      production of many films of the 1930s, such as a popular 1936 version of The Leper, extended beyond the
      use of its studio and filmmaking equipment remains unclear.
    

      The founding in 1928 of the problem-prone Polish Telegraph Agency (PAT), and the Central Film Agency (CBF) in the
      Ministry of Internal Affairs gave the government greater control over film production. PAT made newsreels of
      political events and documented the country in its development. It attempted to use film as a tool to educate
      citizens in small cities and towns about national, rather than regional, civic duties. It was also a means of
      soothing public anger over heavy taxation and censorship, even as the economic depression that began in 1929
      rendered every aspect of the film industry difficult to manage. The Central Film Agency claimed responsibility
      for censorship, oversight of film production, film importation and exportation, investigation of taxation issues,
      control over national propaganda, and taxation. In November 1928, the office announced its criteria for taxing
      films: 10 percent on films used for educational purposes only; 30 percent on artistic films, educational fiction,
      and "good" entertainment films; 50 percent on historical films; and 60 percent on all others. In June 1929, it
      proclaimed that all films made on the subject of Poland would receive a special stamp, which might permit a
      reduction of the tax. As a means of encouraging domestic film production and ensuring that audiences, willing or
      not, saw domestic films, it also established a tax break of up to 10 percent for cinemas that projected short
      films on Polish subjects in addition to their regular programs. In 1930, it announced that that Polish
      productions had to make up at least 10 percent of all films shown in cinemas.7


      A handful of production companies made educational films in the late 1920s, in addition to those commissioned by
      the CBF. The largest producers were Depkin and Wytwórnia Doświadczalna. National monuments and institutions,
      national and religious celebrations, sports, nature, and the products of modernity—cinema, airplanes, and the
      like—were among the most popular subjects. Depkin's didactic films include Dla szczęścia kraju (For
      the Country's Happiness, 1926-27), in which Smosarska describes how to fight
      typhus; Jak powstaje samolot (How an Airplane Is Built, 1928-29); Historia radia (The History
      of Radio, 1928-29); and Racjonalna hodowla bydła (Efficient Cattle Husbandry, 1928-29). Others portray
      localities, such as Uroczystości Bożego Ciała w Łowiczu (Corpus Christi Celebrations in Łowicz, 1926),
      Fragmenty z Gdańska (Fragments from Gdańsk, 1928), and Warszawa (Warsaw, 1926-27); and nature,
      such as Mięczaki (Mollusks, 1928-29) and Pająki (Spiders, 1928-29). Wytwórnia Doświadczalna
      chose similar topics. Its sports films include Bieg kolarski dookoła Polski (A Bicycle Race around
      Poland, 1928), Mecz piłki nożnej: Artyści-prasa (A Soccer Game: Artists vs. the Press, 1929), Próbny
      lot Warszawa-Moskwa (A Trial Flight from Warsaw to Moscow, 1928), and Polskie lotnictwo (Polish
      Aviation, 1927-28). Its citizen education films include Odjazd pierwszego okrętu z emigrantami do
      Ameryki (Departure of the First Ship of Emigrants to America, 1927), Budowa Muzeum Narodowego
      (Building the National Museum, 1927), Uroczystości obchód 9ej rocznicy niepodległości Polski (Formal
      Celebrations on the Ninth Anniversary of Poland's Independence, 1927), and Wycieczka polaków amerykańskich w
      Warszawie (Polish Americans Visit Warsaw, 1929).
    

      Perhaps it was because of the tax breaks on "artistic" films or a belated interest in Soviet films, but a
      generation of filmmakers finally began to challenge the notion that the formal qualities of film were
      unimportant. Production companies continued to emerge, make one or two films, and exit the film industry in the
      late 1920s, but their crews did not give up on filmmaking as quickly as their financiers. Many filmmakers of the
      new generation had formal training; others dabbled in production while writing film theory. Cękalski, Ford,
      Gardan, Lejtes, Szaro, Trystan, and Waszyński, as mentioned earlier, made their first films in the second half of
      the decade. The melodramatic content of Trystan's Bunt krwi i żelaza (Revolt of Blood and Iron, 1927),
      produced by Kolos and based on the novel by Gustaw Daniłowski, demonstrates the difficulties that these new
      directors faced in their attempts to reconcile the desire to create socially useful and artistically innovative
      films with the need to appease producers. As Banaszkiewicz and Witczak note, "As a theorist, Trystan was
      interested exclusively in film aesthetics. As a practicing filmmaker, he had to agree to the terms of his
      producers by experimenting with melodramatic content."8 For example, although he drew on techniques of montage to
      suggest a runaway train in Revolt of Blood and Iron, he linked the
      train to a sensational love story rather than to the social issues, going against the grain of Soviet montage.
    

      Working under a heavy-handed government without a clear direction for the future counterbalanced or tempered
      experimentation by the new generation of directors. Even if their popularity was unpredictable, propaganda films
      offered the most reliable way to avoid censorship and guarantee a tax break. In this atmosphere, certain
      characters began to dominate screens during the Piłsudski era: the aristocrat and the soldier. With his genteel
      manner, confidence, charm, and susceptibility to melancholy, the aristocrat conveyed a sense of nostalgia for the
      prepartition era (in which no member of the audience had ever lived), while the fallen soldier represented the
      loss of that era, the chance that it might return, and the secretly comforting certainty that it would not.
      Odrodzona Polska (Poland Reborn), made by Zygmunt Wesołowski and produced at the Filmotwórnia Stanisława
      Martynowskiego in Poznań in 1924, was a precursor of such films, and one of the few made outside of Warsaw. In
      it, a veteran from the January Uprising of 1863 leads the viewers on a tour of the history of the nation as its
      soldiers and aristocrats (purportedly) experienced it, including the partitions, battles with Cossack armies, and
      so on, through the restoration of independence. The film found mild financial success, and only in Poznań; in
      other cities, people assumed that it was nothing more than a political advertisement.9 Still, the idea of resurrecting history with this
      particular spin did catch on with some companies, including Sfinks, which recognized untapped potential for
      profit in this type of film. Even if the government did not fund a propaganda film directly, deals could be
      reached to share expenses. According to Antoni Słonimski, the national post office paid around ten thousand
      zlotys in subsidies for product placement in the PAT-produced Tajemnica skrzynki pocztowej (The Secret
      of the Mailbox, 1929), directed by Aleksander Reich.10


      Cinema owners grew increasingly determined to have their way. While the years immediately after were a time of
      adjustment, between 1923 and 1926 the government backed away from direct involvement in the film industry.
      General economic conditions in the country were such that the industry had no chance of supporting itself without
      subsidies. Many owners reached their breaking point in 1923, when the number of cinemas in Poland declined by as
      much as one-half.11 Small,
      poorly equipped, or poorly located theaters either went into bankruptcy or teetered on the verge it. Cinemas were
      crunched on one side by the government's insistence on taxing tickets in order to fill gaps in local budgets and on the other by the general economic slump and the consequent breakdown of
      the independent nation's first currency, the Polish mark. The first of the two waves of strikes by cinema owners
      in Warsaw and Łódź began under such pressure.
    

      In March 1923, Warsaw cinema owners closed their theaters, demanding that the government lower the tax by at
      least one-half. A second wave of strikes, supported by all of the industry's unions, took place in the first half
      of 1926: in the winter of 1926, Łódź cinema owners negotiated an abatement of the tax to 50 percent on foreign
      films and 25 percent on domestic films. In Warsaw, because of a June-July 1926 strike, the tax was lowered to 75
      percent on foreign films and between 10 and 33 percent on domestic films. It was reduced to 50 percent after a
      May strike in Poznań. In other cities, such as L'viv and Kielce, cinema owners called off planned strikes when
      local governments gave in to their demands. In February 1927, the maximum tax on tickets for feature films was
      set at 75 percent and the maximum tax on tickets for educational films at 10 percent. Perhaps aiding in the
      passage of this legislation was the mandate, put into effect one month earlier in Warsaw and Łódź, that all
      cinema owners join the Union of Motion Picture Theaters (expanded at the end of 1927 to create the Association of
      Unions of Motion Picture Theaters), which would fight to lower taxation.
    

      The prevalence of strikes demonstrates the reliance of local governments on the taxes that they collected from
      ticket sales. Small businesses rarely close their doors in a protest that essentially amounts to a boycott of
      their own goods. They could do so only because of their customers' support and their own confidence in the
      importance of their role in the general economy. Cinemas in the countryside and in small towns, however, did not
      benefit from the confidence of their urban counterparts. In the 1925-26 season, there were sixty-seven cinemas
      operating in the Warsaw area. In other urban areas the numbers were as follows: Silesia—forty-six;
      Łódź—forty-five; Poznań—forty-one; Kielce—thirty-nine; L'viv—thirty-four; and Kraków—twenty-eight.12 The number of theaters in these
      cities gave strikes the social backing that cinemas in the provinces did not receive, and so the number of rural
      cinemas continually decreased.
    

      Fiscal politics did not affect importers of films as heavily as it did operators of cinemas. Distribution
      companies had a different problem: the government's attempts to limit the importation of foreign films. In 1924,
      American films constituted 39.4 percent of the overall number of full-length productions shown in Poland. In 1926, this percentage climbed to 70.6, and it grew steadily.13 In 1925, the American companies
      Fox, First National, and Universal opened their own distribution outlets in Warsaw and began offering direct
      rentals from the United States, increasing the likelihood that cinema owners would rent American films. In this
      same year, there began a long and heated discussion about a levy or quota system, which would make the permitted
      number of imported films dependent on the state of domestic production. Proponents based these quotas on similar
      systems established in other European countries, which feared the impact of the growing dominance of American
      films on local production. Many editorial writers in Poland worried about what they saw as imperialistic efforts
      by American companies to strangle domestic distribution and, eventually, to buy cinemas in Poland for the
      projection of all-American repertoires. Existing domestic studios were afraid, however, that the quota system
      would lead to new competition among production centers. Distraught distribution companies feared, above all, that
      the government would eventually find a way to use the quotas to exact more money from them. Cinema owners worried
      that the system did not take into consideration the fact that imports were their main source of income and that
      it would decrease the number of films to which they had access. Some preferred American films for their high
      print quality, and simply were not interested in limiting their numbers. Still other owners worried that a quota
      system would have the unwanted effect of increasing the number of imports of less popular German films. Still
      others noted with discomfort that domestic films were less than attractive commodities, with the sole exception
      of the profitable productions by Sfinks. According to a lecture given in the mid-1920s by Władysław Balcerzak,
      notwithstanding increases in the number of trading partners (from nine in 1923 to eighteen in 1925), 97 percent
      of the films imported between 1919 and 1926 were brought from a small group of foreign countries: Austria,
      England, France, Germany, and the United States.14


      Avenues for film distribution and exhibition increased in the late 1920s as improvements in the economic
      situation of the country as a whole spurred growth in every sector of the industry. Three hundred cinemas opened
      between 1925 and 1929. Many of these were in smaller cities rather than in Warsaw, where the number of cinemas
      actually declined. (This is perhaps attributable to the opening of supercinemas in Warsaw. Cinemas in other large
      and medium-sized cities were smaller and less extravagant, and therefore more numerous.) The numbers for the
      major cities were as follows: Poznań—eighty-one; Łódź and Kielce—sixty-five;
      L'viv—sixty-three; Warsaw—fifty-seven; Kraków—fifty; and Vilnius—seventeen. The total number of cinemas in Poland
      was approximately 727.15
      Some of the cinemas in small towns were probably multifunctional (for example, churches and warehouses), however,
      and not all of the permanent ones showed films every day of the week.
    

      Defining the Patriotic Film: In the Polish Woods


      On the surface, stories of soldiers and aristocrats made for easily drawn characters and settings: they were the
      images created in literature and art to celebrate the country's independence. As a local expression of the
      symbols of nationhood portrayed in the first demonstrations of the Cinématographe, they adhered to Irzykowski's
      law of the looking glass, and it made sense to adapt them to the screen. Below the surface, however, there was a
      problem with these portrayals. The soldiers were still fighting Ukrainian Cossacks. Ordinary people were
      uncovering the secrets of Russian spies long after all wars had ended. Aristocrats and peasants continued to
      stage impossible romantic trysts, even though these class distinctions relied on a defunct feudal system.
      Similarly, although Catholic and Jewish directors had been working together behind the scenes through the entire
      decade, producers still chose Catholic actors for Catholic roles and Jewish actors for Jewish roles. The industry
      was creating an image of the country that recalled an age of segregation, independence-related violence, and
      social immobility. The purpose of the government-funded and historical films in these categories was to unite the
      nation in language-based historical remembrance and pride in its Polish-speaking aristocratic heritage. In making
      these films exciting and beautiful, however, perhaps filmmakers succeeded only in keeping the industry from
      moving into another position, one that would allow them to draw on the nation's multilingualism during the
      transition from silent to sound film.
    

      Scholar Tadeusz Miczka writes
    

      Polish feature filmmaking has always, unusually forcefully, exposed the relation between identification with the
      nation and [identification with] the state. It has done this more resiliently than cinemas of other countries.
      . . . Its sense of familiarity and set of local problems that were constantly reinvented by artists—those that
      were rooted in service to the nation and the formation of a national consciousness—decided on the "intimate
      relationship" between Poles and their domestic cinema for a long time. Polish
      directors relatively rarely transgressed the tendency to engage in the processes of mythologizing and
      demythologizing Polishness in their art.16


      Miczka notes that Polish films of the interwar period generally did not find distributors abroad: "Cinema found
      itself, after all, ensnared in Polish issues. Eminent intellectuals complained relentlessly about the
      propagandist and sentimental subject matter, obsessive dictates, and low technical quality of the screen images
      that were generally received very excitedly by mass audiences."17 Of course, Miczka refers only to distribution among the
      mainstream audiences of other countries. Polish films were projected in Polish-speaking neighborhoods in the
      United States just as Yiddish films were distributed throughout the world. Nevertheless, his point that they were
      of interest only to those with a certain type of investment in the country is compelling. As subject matter for
      cinema, the soldier and the aristocrat are constantly engaged in the struggle to retain their positions in the
      social order among various external, yet familiar entities. All universal emotions and needs—love, trust, the
      ability to acquire the necessities for survival—are wrapped within the basic formula, in which Polish soldiers
      and aristocrats defend themselves against a foreign (Russian) or internal (traitorous) enemy. As such, these
      images might have deepened segregation between members of various social groups within the country.
    

      Filmmakers had to look only as far as contemporary literature for their stories about Poland's aristocratic
      heritage. They enthusiastically adapted literature from the turn-of-the-century Young Poland literary movement,
      including the works of two Polish nominees for the 1924 Nobel Prize for Literature, Władysław Reymont and Stefan
      Żeromski. In 1927, Hertz and coproducer Zbigniew Gniazdowski made a contemporary version of Reymont's Ziemia
      obiecana (The Promised Land) in which they changed the ending of the novel to one of happy, triumphant love.
      In 1928, Szaro adapted Żeromski's 1924 novel Przedwiośnie (Before the Spring), using a screenplay
      written by Andrzej Strug (Stefan Gałecki) and Anatol Stern. Audiences were encouraged to celebrate the tenth
      anniversary of Poland's independence with Ryszard Ordyński's 1928 adaptation of Adam Mickiewicz's masterpiece,
      Pan Tadeusz. Star-Film produced it, and Strug and Ferdynand Goetel wrote the screenplay version of the
      national epic. Despite a great deal of advertising, it was a commercial and critical failure.
    

      As noted, the government financed propaganda films during the years immediately following World War I in an
      attempt to garner support for the Polish-Soviet War and to aid in the
      establishment of social order in the country. As it gradually withdrew its involvement in the industry in the
      middle of the decade, producers threw themselves into the making of so-called national films. Such films were
      made with the overt intention of demonstrating what it meant to be Polish. Because they were intended to
      encourage positive stereotypes and to represent national history in a positive manner, they are now considered
      patriotic, nationalist, and even precursors to Socialist Realism. Sfinks's Iwonka was one such national
      film. Although the film was created, ostensibly, for a general audience, the Polishness to which it aspired
      clearly was that associated with Catholic, Polish-speaking audiences. Such films were often openly anti-Russian
      or anti-Soviet, featuring secret agents, aristocratic cavalrymen, and their long-suffering lovers, as well as
      battle scenes. The Poland portrayed in these films belonged to the aristocracy, which the film industry expected
      audiences to respect and emulate. Critics, who sometimes demonstrated their distaste for the stereotypes
      portrayed in national films by disparaging all domestic films, did not overlook this tendency.
    

      Although it operated in an independent nation-state rather than an occupied land, the film industry in Poland, as
      in much of the world, found it difficult to stop fabricating nostalgia. Indeed, nostalgia may have been the main
      force that bound the nation to its cinema, bearing out Irzykowski's observation regarding man's "desire to view
      things and events in abstraction from reality."18 Perhaps filmmakers found the idea of the country much easier to represent—cleaner,
      more precise, less complicated—than the country itself. Słonimski, for example, considers the difference between
      filming past events and the present: "Cinema is a dangerous witness to our madness. The film negatives, soldered
      up in tin cans, may someday become compromising documents. We have never, in any era, lived so much on display,
      and we should keep this in mind." He laments that the present day will go down in history as banal and ugly, but
      goes on to note that "[e]very era acquires charm as it grows distant. When we think of the reigns of the kings of
      France, we see only monuments in the parks and sweet marquees. We do not remember that the whole fraternity was
      quite dirty, and that most people had rotten teeth." Interestingly, he uses these examples to argue that
      contemporary people should take better care of their appearances rather than as criticism of
      filmmaking.19 Although a
      blunt and often angry critic of the nation, he, too, fell into idealizations of it in cinema.
    

Filmmakers presented cinematic narratives about the nation's soldiers against a
      backdrop of historical military and political battles, in particular the events of 1863, 1914, and 1905 (in order
      of frequency). The January Uprising provided the backdrop for the 1922 film Rok 1863 (1863 / The
      Faithful River). Returning from a stint as an assistant to Robert Wiene in western Europe, Józef Lejtes made his
      directorial debut in 1928 with Huragan (The Hurricane), a tragic love story also set in the January
      Uprising. Narodowa Wytwórnia Filmów Historycznych (formerly Klio-Film) produced it in collaboration with an
      Austrian production company. As in many historical films, the main character's love for his country and his love
      for a woman are indistinguishable. In order to avenge the killing of the woman during the uprising, he embarks on
      a mission to defend the country: the woman, in other words, becomes a symbol of the nation for which he fights.
      Also as in many historical films, the woman in question is Polish-speaking, aristocratic, and, presumably,
      Catholic.
    

      There is little, if any, mention of relations between members of the country's minority and majority groups in
      these films. Ryszard Ordyński, who had built a career in the United States with theater productions for Polish
      Americans, directed Mogiła nieznanego żołnierza (The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier) in 1927. This film
      about the love of a daughter for her soldier father draws attention to the role of Piłsudski and the Polish army
      in the fight for independence. A Klio-Film production, Biegański's 1927 Maraton polski (The Polish
      Marathon) employed scenes from battles that took place between 1863 and 1914 for an independent Poland. As the
      name suggests, The Polish Marathon glorifies the nation's military endurance. Of these films, Słonimski
      writes in January 1928, "Maybe it does not pay to make artistic films, expensive films, in Poland, but this is no
      reason for inexpensive films to have so many mistakes, so much banality and a lack of taste. . . . Finally, one
      should make a film in Poland without bandits, vodka, dancing, or war."20


      In Leo-Forbert's Lamedvovnik (Łamed vov; Jeden z 36; One of the 36, 1925), director Szaro,
      cameraman Steinwurzel, and screenwriter Bojm portray nationalist sentiment against the backdrop of a Jewish
      shtetl. One of the 36 takes place in the January Uprising and involves the legend of the thirty-six
      tsaddiks, or sages, who live as modest, poor men but who, under difficult circumstances, are able to
      perform otherworldly acts to save Jews. The setting of the film during the January Uprising connects it to the
      related genres of patriotic or nationalist films, but unlike those films, One of the 36 concentrates
      on life in the shtetl during the Russian military occupation. Its parallels to
      nationalist film are clear: the historical setting, a moral sense stemming from a desire for nationhood, and the
      overcoming of impossible odds.
    



        The Leo-Forbert production team during filming of One of the 36. Filmoteka Narodowa
      


      As in earlier periods, most national films from the later years of silent moviemaking did not enjoy much
      commercial success. Audiences and critics alike scorned them, with the exception of a few films starring the
      ever-popular Smosarska. This situation led the production company Prometeus, working with director Kucharski, to
      propose an inclusive definition of nationalism in Śmierć za życie: Symfonia ludzkości (Death for Life: A
      Symphony of Humanity, 1924). In this film, a young prince befriends the son of a poor Jewish innkeeper, Efraim,
      after the young man saves the prince from being murdered by Bolsheviks. The prince ensures Efraim's education and
      encourages him to write poetry, which leads to his authorship of the great drama, A Symphony of
      Humanity. Nursing Efraim when he catches typhus, the prince himself catches the illness and dies. Death
      for Life, according to its publicity, encouraged "the moralization of the
      wide masses" and created "a sensation in the political-religious world."21 Criticism of this film, however, was as harsh as that directed
      at the earlier type of national film. Reviewers claimed that the type of religious goodwill that this film
      portrayed was so unrealistic as to be impossible.
    

      It may be worthwhile to pause for a moment to consider the reaction of critics to the image of the Catholic,
      aristocratic son of a king befriending the Jewish, underprivileged son of an innkeeper. Why did critics such as
      Józef Rosen find it unrealistic?22 Why was realism an issue? It is important to recognize that although Jews and Catholics
      belonging to the young, urban crowd did move in many of the same circles, in the countryside where the film takes
      place there was probably not much intermingling. Shtetls were inhabited almost entirely by Jews, and many small
      towns were entirely Catholic. Critics noticed two aspects of the film. First, they noted that its plot was based
      not on the observable behavior of the country's inhabitants but on the nation's historical tradition of tolerance
      and social equality. Second, because of its idealism, they interpreted it as undesirably moralizing.
    

      Emerging producers, Forbert in particular, had shaken up Hertz's control over the industry and encouraged the
      different perspectives that grew to define national film in Poland. Filmmakers had started to question the
      meaning of "national film" in response to specific ideologies, such as anti-Russian patriotism, and events, such
      as the government's refusal to create a national film studio. During the early part of the decade it had seemed
      as though nothing new was happening in film production; in reality, it was in this period that filmmakers began
      to think critically about the definition and role of nationhood in their work. The identities of people working
      for various companies (as far as they are known) point to the close cooperation of Catholics and Jews behind the
      scenes in filmmaking in the mid-1920s. However, the representation of this cooperation in the story lines of
      films was less prevalent. Indeed, with a few notable exceptions, the opposite image prevailed. In contrast to the
      increasing integration of the film industry in this period after Hertz's death, reviews and descriptions of most
      films draw attention to segregation and the lack of close ties between members of religious groups. Still, the
      exceptions make the rule. One of the 36 and Death for Life show that the broader range of
      possibilities gained from independence encouraged greater attentiveness to film content in the short term as well
      as innovation and experimentation a few years down the road.
    

The January 1929 premiere of the historical film In di poylishe velder
      (In the Polish Woods) received a great deal of attention. Adapted by Bojm from Opatoshu's novel, In the
      Polish Woods was a silent film produced by Forbert-Film and directed by Jonas Turkow. At a time when
      filmmakers tended to overload films with intertitles and written dialog in order to aid audiences in
      understanding the action of the film, In the Polish Woods relied on its audience's understanding of
      cultural symbols to connect with their understanding of and nostalgia for a certain historical moment and to
      construct their emotional response. A review of the film in Kino dla wszystkich calls it the first
      talking film "because this film really speaks to the hearts and senses of its viewers" and calls it "a hundred
      times more expressive than words."23 The premiere of the film coincided with the first edition of Film velt (Film
      World), which featured images from its production on its cover and hailed the film as a demonstration of the
      desire for brotherly love in Poland. It lived up to its goal, they write, of revealing the universalism and
      culturally unifying capacity of cinema.24


In the Polish Woods takes place in the Russian Empire during the January Uprising. The plot concerns a
      young man, Mordkhe, raised in a traditional Jewish home in a forest on the banks of the Vistula River, whose
      nighttime dreams are filled with haunting images. Included are the local martyr, Queen Wanda, who (according to
      legend) at the time of the partitions, threw herself in the river rather than marry a German, and the leader of
      the Jewish legion, Berek Joselewicz, defender of the Praga district of Warsaw during the 1794 Kościuszko
      Uprising. Mordkhe spends more time thinking about his young love interest, Rachel, than thinking about his
      studies. In an attempt to improve Mordkhe's concentration, his father sends him to relatives in Kotsk, a town
      known for its Hasidic court. There he meets Jews involved in preparations to fight alongside Catholics in the
      upcoming January Uprising, and after weighing the spiritual benefits of a traditional education against the
      political benefits of the battle for a nation of brotherly love inspired by Mickiewicz's poetry and contemporary
      revolutionaries, he decides to join the insurrectionists. He is injured in battle, but the story ends happily: on
      his way to the hospital he is reunited with his beloved Rachel, who turns out to be his nurse.
    

      The reviewers' statements concerning the resemblance of In the Polish Woods to a sound film are
      reminders of the widespread interest in Hollywood-inspired talkies in 1929 Poland. They are significant on two
      other levels, though. First, the reviewers expressed an opinion of silent film
      as a better platform than sound film for the representation of certain cultural activities, particularly those
      involving people speaking two or more languages. At the twilight of the silent era, the suggestion that silent
      film was better able to depict certain cultural realities of the decade-old country was taken seriously, if only
      for a short time. The choice of Opatoshu's novel is critical in this regard. In the Polish Woods is set
      just before the beginning of the January 1863 uprising, at a time of heightened belief in religious mysticism
      among both Jews and Catholics in the partitioned lands, a belief that was often connected with the hope of a
      restored Polish state. The mystical movements represented in the film—led by or formed in the memory of
      Mickiewicz, the false messiah Shabbetai Zvi, the Frankists, or the Cabalists—were similar in their lack of a
      clear vision of the social structure of this future state but united also by a general sense of cooperation and
      brotherly love. Kino dla wszystkich's reaction to the film reveals an expectation that because silent
      film lessens the problem of word-based communication among minority and majority cultures, it is better able to
      render the culture as a whole and, in particular, the issues of mystical offshoots of religions and
      cross-cultural unity in revolutionary activity.
    

      Second, the subject matter of the film promoted the idea that it was possible to support both Jewish-Catholic
      unity and the autonomy of each group. The novel arose out of the Positivist literary movement of the second half
      of the nineteenth century, which called for the formation of closer bonds (generally through Jewish assimilation)
      between Jews and Catholics. The novel was published in Polish translation for the first time in the middle of the
      1920s. According to Natan Gross, the timing of its publication accounts for its positive reception among Polish
      speakers, as it coincided with the beginning of the Piłsudski government, which strove for this same cultural
      harmony through assimilation and tolerance. As the editors of Nasz przegląd (Our Review), a
      Polish-language periodical marketed to a Jewish audience, noted, "Until now, we had not seen scenes from Jewish
      life—for example, a pilgrimage to a tsaddik or the subjugation of a mad girl by a 'dybbuk,' in a film.
      We had not seen this series of characteristic fragments of the life of Jews in the remote provinces."25 Uncomfortable with responsibility
      for censoring the film, the government asked community leaders—including a Catholic priest and a rabbi—to look at
      it before its release. The rabbi, who had never seen a film before, expressed concern over scenes that he felt
      negatively portrayed the Orthodox Hasidic community, as well as scenes of
      kissing teenagers and interreligious mingling. As Gross explains, the general idea of the film disturbed the
      rabbi, and once he was given the opportunity to cut it, he did so "endlessly." Together, the censors eliminated
      scenes of coed mingling, the Hasidic court, and some images of the uprising. According to Turkow, this left the
      film in tatters and ruined its chances for success.26 In the Polish Woods premiered in January 1929 at the Światowid supercinema in
      Warsaw, though accounts vary.27 Even without many of the original scenes, the film sparked a longing for films that "spoke"
      to audiences, whose awareness that the talking world was invading their movie theaters both intrigued and worried
      them.
    

      Turkow's story offers one of the few examples of a filmmaker speaking out about the censorship that films
      underwent in the interwar period. Because it is difficult to discern how this experience figured into censorship
      in general, it might be more useful to think of In the Polish Woods in terms of national versus regional
      distribution. Its case demonstrates a significant aspect of film exhibition in the first decade of independence.
      That is, even in the absence of a cohesive concept of national film, distributors and exhibitors were expected to
      have an understanding of what it meant to exhibit nationally in the broadest sense of the term. For the first
      time, they had to consider what it meant to be a filmgoing nation made up of people with different sets of
      beliefs, values, customs, and prohibitions. Turkow's remarks are an exaggeration: censors did not leave his film
      in tatters, and it was relatively successful. However, his feeling that there was nothing left of the film by the
      time the leaders of three of the major social networks—the government, the Catholic Church, and the Hasidic
      Jewish community—had taken out everything to which they rejected, is as important as it is interesting. It shows
      that he understood that, as a filmmaker, he was involved—like it or not—in the difficult and sometimes
      destructive task of nation building.
    

In the Polish Woods became of the most-talked-about films of the period, with reviews in every major
      Polish- and Yiddish-language newspaper. Certain conclusions may be drawn from the differences in these reviews.
      Demonstrating their politics rather than aesthetics, critics came out for or against the portrayal of mysticism
      in the film. In a compilation review in Kino dla wszystkich, editors of the Zionist newspaper Nasz
      przegląd (Our Review) wrote, "The world of mysticism and kabbalah, the world of Hasidic sloth . . . that
      unappreciated, always poignant exoticism has found a suitable backdrop and capable executors in the film, In
      the Polish Woods." Others chose to claim the mysticism as a real part of
      the daily existence of the minority culture. The Yiddish newspaper Haynt (Today) claimed, "This film has
      an enormous plus: it reconstructs real Jewish life with all of its joys and sadnesses." A Warsaw Polish-language
      newspaper claimed, "The episodes that familiarize us with the customs of Orthodox Jews, Hasids, tsaddiks, and
      rabbis from small towns make the film valuable. They are the breath of truth, filled with poetry and broad
      sentiment." Still others saw the reconciliation of the majority and minority cultures in the otherworldly
      elements of the film. The editors of Kurier warszawski wrote, "In the Polish Woods exploits a
      dual exoticism for the world: Polish and Jewish."28


In the Polish Woods was the last film based on a Yiddish text that was made before the transition to
      sound, and audiences had to wait seven years for the first sound film in Yiddish. J. Hoberman links the break to
      what he claims is the critical failure of In the Polish Woods, stating, "Its failure epitomizes the
      decline of universalist aspirations within the Yiddish cinema." He attributes the subsequent lack of films to a
      lack of "room for the emancipated Jew in the creation of a new, modern, universal culture. . . . There was no
      such supranationalist ideology in Poland." Because of the use of spoken Yiddish in films, Hoberman argues, "[t]he
      Gentile world receded from the films. And, as the Gentile world diminished, the youthful cultural and political
      revolutionaries who acted as emissaries between the two spheres lost their prominence."29


      Natan Gross remembers the situation differently: "It is possible that Jewish producers were not sufficiently
      prepared to initiate the novelty [of sound]. When it materialized among the Polish public, when the appropriate
      conditions were created—equipment was imported from abroad and the technicians and directors were trained—they
      decided to investigate to what extent talking motion pictures in Yiddish were necessary for Jewish
      audiences."30 There is
      reason to agree with both of these explanations. Before the majority culture could begin to accept films in a
      minority language, someone had to gain independence from the usual system of financing and production. In terms
      of Irzykowski's idea of the "mystical possessiveness" that spectators bring to the cinema, it may be that
      non-Jewish spectators were intimidated by Jewish culture. For many non-Jews, Yiddish was a language much heard
      but never understood, and Jewish customs were both continually present and continually out of reach. It was
      difficult for the ethnic majority to obtain the sense of ownership of the screen image that Irzykowski describes
      when what that image reflected was the cultures of the nation's ethnic minorities. Images of
      foreign lands and historical events offered enough distance in space and time that audiences could feel
      comfortable asserting their ownership over them. In the cinema of the country's minorities, the act of
      spectatorship itself was on display. For this and other reasons, making films for a minority group required a
      stronger will on the part of filmmakers than making films about the majority.
    










5
    

      The Transition from Silent to Sound Film, 1929-30
    

      The Economic and Artistic Considerations of the Transition
    

      THE TRANSITION FROM SILENT TO sound film in Poland began on September 27, 1929, when the Splendid motion picture
      theater in Warsaw hosted the national premiere of the American talking picture The Singing Fool,
      starring Al Jolson. Just as synchronized sound in The Jazz Singer had convinced Hollywood studios two
      years earlier that the talkies revolution had come, Warsaw producers realized upon seeing and hearing Jolson in
      The Singing Fool that they had no choice but to take the revolution seriously. Like the first appearance
      of silent cinema in the partitioned lands, the transition to sound film in Poland was imported through the
      exhibition of foreign-made films some time before it became a part of domestic filmmaking. The production of
      domestic sound films moved slowly, in spite of producers' convictions that audiences would prefer domestic sound
      films to imported ones.
    

      There are many reasons for this. Filmmakers knew that the transition from silent to sound film, particularly
      talkies (films with synchronized dialogue and music recorded on disc or on optical sound track), would trigger
      major changes in film production in Poland. Directors and camera operators had to find the financial resources to
      rent or buy new kinds of equipment, from cameras to microphones. Besides being extremely expensive by Polish
      standards, the equipment was not easy or comfortable to use. And once filmmakers had acquired it, they had to
      learn to use it. The recording devices were very heavy and cumbersome. The advances in mobility that filmmakers
      had developed in the late 1920s were less applicable because operators were no longer able to carry the camera
      freely around the set. Similarly, the number of frames per second had to be
      standardized to allow for image-sound synchronization. Filmmakers had to normalize the speed at which they
      filmed, which limited their artistic freedom. The imperfect recording equipment often accidentally picked up
      secondary noises, frustrating its operators. In addition, filmmakers had to rethink their choice of actors for
      sound film roles. Film stars' voices had suddenly become an important consideration in their careers. Those who
      had certain types of voices and vocal mannerisms (such as stage actors from the Warsaw Polish-language theaters)
      were able to continue their careers as long as they were willing to adapt their acting methods to the needs of
      the new technology, while others found themselves unable to secure employment.
    

      The main problem, though, was cost. Once they had rented or bought the equipment, paid the numerous new hires,
      and recorded the sound for their films, producers found that the cost of producing a sound film was at least
      double that of producing a silent film. Only those with exceptional aptitude for working with investors and an
      intuition for audience preferences were able to succeed in making profitable sound films. In the first years of
      sound cinema, films in Poland were made in two versions, silent and sound, in order to alleviate some of the
      problems connected to the transition.
    

      Because inventors in Poland did not manufacture their own version of the sound film camera, filmmakers had to buy
      expensive equipment from other countries. There were apparently few attempts to remedy this situation. The first
      in Poland to experiment seriously with technology for the simultaneous projection of sound and image was Karol
      Marczak. In early 1923, Film polski (Polish Film) announced that Marczak had filed a patent application
      for a machine that could record sounds and play them simultaneously with projected motion pictures. The machine
      consisted of a powerful lamp modulated with a battery-powered microphone that would expose the edge of the
      negative film reel and would be reproduced through a sensitive selenium cell.1 Either Marczak did not receive his patent, failed to
      promote his product, or lost interest in the industry, as nothing appears to have come of his efforts.2 The economic circumstances of the
      industry may have discouraged potentially expensive projects such as his. It is also likely that the lack of a
      domestic model of silent film camera and the industry's subsequent dependence on patented foreign cameras for
      experimentation made the acquisition of new patents difficult.
    

In spite of their fears of the costs of the transition, some people in the
      industry immediately saw room for profit in it. Cinema owners were particularly interested in the potential of
      sound film as a medium and as a way to expand their investment in the industry. Because of the poor economy and
      changing standards in filmmaking, the financing of films was slowly coming under their control at this time.
      After cinema owners in Warsaw made the transition to sound, they introduced a system whereby they offered credit
      to producers of films that they wanted to be the first to project. Producers would approach cinema owners before
      embarking on a project to ask for their financial support. Owners would either deny their request (thereby
      forcing them to abandon the project) or agree, with stipulations. If they agreed, the owners would give producers
      promissory notes, which they would then use in lieu of cash to pay their workers, film suppliers, laboratories,
      and so on. After the film was completed, the cinemas that financed it would show it.3


      The cinema owners' stipulations were extensive. Filmmakers and producers had to guarantee a film's financial
      success at the preproduction stage. But they did not necessarily understand what this entailed, at least not as
      well as the cinema owners themselves. Cinema owners often took over the roles of producer and director, choosing
      the films' subjects, actors, production schedules, and even the dates of their premieres. Producers no longer had
      to shoulder the entire financial burden of their films, but as a trade-off they had to bargain for everything.
      They were still expected to obtain preproduction funds from other outside investors, a requirement that further
      undermined the production companies' control over films. Cinema owners were the most reliable of investors, but
      they were also the most domineering. In part because of the system of financing, the gap between commercial and
      artistic films widened in the early 1930s. With cinema owners in charge, commercial films followed standardized
      models in terms of narrative and aesthetic, a development that would become most apparent in genre films from the
      middle of the decade.
    

      Cinema owners felt that sound film afforded them an opportunity to increase the market for domestic films. They
      assumed that the addition of dialogue would weaken the market for films produced abroad—that is, films made in
      foreign languages—because audiences would not want to be bothered with reading subtitles or to adjust their
      reading speed to the pace of the subtitles. They also took into consideration the relatively large number of
      illiterate people in the country in 1930.4 Recognizing the need to provide an effortless experience
      for their customers and concerned about shrinking audiences, producers assumed that domestic sound production was
      both a necessity and an opportunity to invigorate the industry.
    

      From the beginning, cinema owners were willing to finance sound films only in the Polish language. Polish was, of
      course, the most widely spoken language in the country, and because cinema owners wanted to draw the widest
      possible audience to the films that they financed and projected, it seemed the obvious choice. Was dubbing, then,
      an option? No evidence suggests that cinema owners considered making minority-language sound films and dubbing
      them into Polish for the majority audience, and a look at the stated reasons for rejecting the dubbing of
      imported films may offer some explanation why. Dubbing was costly and unacceptable to those who felt that actors'
      faces and voices needed to match. There were negative reviews even when original voices were presented (Antoni
      Słonimski writes sarcastically during a trip to London in May 1930, "I heard the voice of Buster Keaton and the
      voice of Greta Garbo in a sound film and I could not detect any difference."5), but, still, these voices were preferred to the monotone
      of dubbing. The first limited attempts at dubbing were completed in the films' countries of origin, with American
      actors such as Clara Bow and Richard Arlen "speaking" dubbed Polish in Lothar Mendes's 1929 Dangerous
      Curves. One critic described this approach as "making the same impression as a fake, pasted-on
      beard"6 because of the poor
      synchronization and the false advertising—audiences were being asked to buy into Bow's and Arlen's perfect
      Polish. In 1930, director Józef Lejtes dubbed a French film, Henri Chomette's Le Requin (The Shark), in
      a Warsaw studio rather than abroad, but the result was criticized for its poor translation and technical quality.
      In 1934, Polska Akustyka dubbed the voices of domestic actors onto foreign films, with little success.7 Audiences began to consider dubbing
      something not quite domestic, but not quite foreign, and therefore completely unacceptable. Though some, such as
      novelist Maria J. Wielopolska, felt that dubbing foreign languages into proper Polish could foster the use of
      correct grammar and enrich vocabularies—as well as encourage national minorities to speak Polish—their views were
      considered briefly and then discarded. Actors remained the only supporters of dubbing because it offered a
      potential source of income. Dubbing, however, remained rare.
    

The first season of domestic sound films produced a couple of hits. These
      included Kult ciała (Cult of the Body) and Moralność pani Dulskiej (The Morality of Pani
      Dulska), both made in 1930. Michał Waszyński's Cult of the Body was a Polish-Austrian coproduction made
      in silent and Polish-language sound versions. The Heros company's only production, The Morality of Pani
      Dulska, was directed by Bolesław Newolin.
    

Cult of the Body, produced by Juliusz Zagrodzki, was Waszyński's second film. Anatol Stern and Stefan
      Szekely loosely based the screenplay on the novel of the same title by Mieczysław Srokowski. In the film, a
      sculptor named Czesław perceives that his model (and friend's girlfriend), Hanka, possesses ideal beauty and a
      perfect life. When his love for her is unrequited, his moral character, work, and personal life fall apart, only
      to come back into place when she changes her mind. The film, like most films made between the advent of sound and
      1932, was made as a silent with sound added later, in this case in Vienna. It was shot in Warsaw and featured
      popular actors not only from Poland (such as Eugeniusz Bodo as Czesław's assistant) but also from Hungary (Victor
      Varkonyi as Czesław) and Sweden (Agnes Petersen-Mozzuchina as Hanka). It is not clear when or where the sound
      version—which has since been lost—premiered. The silent version premiered on January 18, 1930, at Warsaw's
      Colosseum and Filharmonia theaters; it was later shown in Belgium, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, France,
      Germany, Latvia, Norway, Romania, and Sweden.8


      Although the creators of The Morality of Pani Dulska decided to add sound only after production had
      begun, they tried to make the technical excellence of its illustrated song and dialogue recording a top priority.
      Producer Bolesław Land's assistants, Marta Flanz (who also played the role of Pani Dulska) and Ludwik Fritsche
      (Mr. Dulski), found their responsibilities increased to include such tasks as writing dialogue and recording
      Józef Węgrzyn's spoken introduction to the film. Coproducer Maurycy Herszfinkel hired the Syrena Record recording
      studio, a group of musicians from the Warsaw Philharmonic, and composer Ludomir Różycki to coordinate the music
      and image track. Węgrzyn's introduction to the film was projected before the film's premiere at the Casino motion
      picture theater in Warsaw, making his voice the first one heard in Polish sound cinema.
    

      While the first domestic sound films generally roused the interest and admiration of audiences, Pani
      Dulska's use of sound, nonetheless, was heavily criticized. Reviewers
      considered the quality of the recording poor; one described it as "deformed human voices and an inconsolable lack
      of synchronization."9 More
      significantly, after the film was finished, there was general agreement that the drama by Gabriela Zapolska from
      which the screenplay was adapted did not lend itself to a sound film. The singing and dancing in the film version
      ignored the essence of Zapolska's morally decisive, fiercely insightful work. The screenwriters allowed
      characters to break into song at inappropriate moments, and Flanz's portrayal of Pani Dulska differed greatly
      from the novel's characterization.
    

      The film's plot was hardly conducive to a musical. Searching for work in town in order to save the farm of her
      caretakers, young Hanka is taken in by Pani Dulska, who offers the girl to her son, Zbyszek, as a concubine.
      This, though, is only the beginning of Hanka's streak of misfortune. Zbyszek rapes and impregnates her, and Pani
      Dulska afterward keeps him from marrying her. Hanka runs away to Warsaw and is about to commit suicide when,
      seeing a mother with a child, she becomes conscious of her own maternal feelings. Hanka's child dies, but
      marriage to a young man from the farm guarantees her happiness-ever-after.
    

      Choosing scripts for sound films, then, posed an immediate problem for producers. It was tempting to add musical
      numbers to essentially silent films rather than to search for new genres, a difficult proposition in an industry
      without a tradition of genre films beyond the somber nationalist melodrama. Producers needed new texts and had to
      learn to draw from comedic, cabaret, and dramatic traditions within the country—a process that required an
      entirely new way of thinking about production. Waszyński was, again, the first to take on this challenge. He made
      comedies such as the Polish-Czechoslovak coproduction Dwanaście krzeseł (Twelve Chairs, 1933), based on
      the Russian novel of the same title, and Sto metrów miłości (One Hundred Meters of Love, 1932), with
      popular comedians Adolf Dymsza and Zula Pogorzelska. In Antek Policmajster (Antek the Police Chief,
      1935), Dymsza plays a charming Polish-speaking petty thief and outlaw who steals a Russian police uniform.
      Stefania Zahorska writes of Dymsza's popular and critically acclaimed performance, "His grotesque is really of
      the highest caliber, a pure and most delightful absurdity in which things take on deeper meaning precisely
      because they are absolutely nonsensical. Dymsza, who salutes by flicking his hand off his forehead and nose in no
      particular way, who jostles his medals and epaulettes like an ungroomed mutt's coat, who sings in a lyrical
      baritone from the bottom of his heart of how—where did this suddenly come
      from?—a world without love is 'like a fish without water and Mohammad without a beard.' It is a burlesque so
      layered that it already has begun to draw a psychological portrait underneath it."10




Antek the Police Chief (1935). Filmoteka Narodowa
      


      Other popular Waszyński productions include ABC miłości (The ABCs of Love, 1935), Bolek i Lolek
      (Bolek and Lolek, 1936), and Dodek na froncie (Dodek at the Front, 1936). Waszyński also made melodramas
      and adapted popular novels and plays. His Niebezpieczny romans (A Dangerous Love Affair, 1930), was
      adapted by Stern from Andrzej Strug's novel Fortuna kasjera Śpiewankiewicza (Bank Teller
      Śpiewankiewicz's Fortune). The film tells the story of a bank teller's foiled attempt to steal money in order to
      gain the attention of a store owner, Ada, whose own band of thieves shoots her in revenge for Śpiewankiewicz's
      actions. Bank Teller Śpiewankiewicz's Fortune was one of the first "100 percent" talkies made in Poland,
      meaning that its dialogue was recorded as it was filmed.11


The lack of suitable screenplays was not the only problem encountered by
      producers in the early sound period. Production of the first talking motion pictures required energy and
      training. Filmmakers had to learn or relearn many aspects of filmmaking in order for sound film to achieve
      success, and they quickly chose Berlin and Vienna as the locations for their educations. Sfinks sent its
      technicians to Berlin at the beginning of 1930, and, as mentioned, sound-on-disk recording took place in Vienna.
      Soon individual producers, filmmakers, technicians, and actors followed the Sfinks crew to western Europe to
      learn how to make sound films.
    

      At the cutting edge of the initiative to integrate eastern and western Europe in sound filmmaking was the U.S.
      firm Paramount Pictures. In May 1930, Paramount's directors invited representatives of selected countries to a
      conference to promote sound film in Paris. Paramount equipped its studios in the Paris suburb of Joinville with
      Western Electric sound equipment and set about making one hundred feature films and fifty shorts in fourteen
      languages for distribution around the world. Their method resembled a "canning factory," according to historian
      Jerzy Toeplitz, where films were chopped and packaged.12 Paramount chose popular American films from 1929 and 1930 to be
      remade in Polish and other languages, including The Laughing Lady, The Doctor's Secret, The Dangerous
      Paradise, No Limit, and The Lady Lies. The scripts were translated, and acting crews from up to ten
      countries were chosen to remake the films for export. Sharing a single set, one crew after another played out
      each scene in its native language. They repeated this procedure each day until each crew had replicated all of
      the scenes of the original film. Editors then pieced together a final product, which the company sent to its
      appropriate country.
    

      Poland's representative to the Paris conference and head of its representation in Joinville was Ryszard Ordyński,
      who went on to make the popular early sound film Janko muzykant (Janko the Musician, 1930), which was
      based on Henryk Sienkiewicz's novella, with music by Leon Schiller and Grzegorz Fitelberg and lyrics by Konrad
      Tom. Stefania Beylin (Ordyński's assistant) describes the period of filming at Joinville in her memoir, A jak
      to było, opowiem . . . (I'll Tell It Like It Was): "Eccentrically dressed and made up, speaking in the
      widest assortment of language—we were a veritable Tower of Babel."13 In Beylin's memory, the Joinville experiment was a time of fun,
      international friendships, and freedom from the difficulty of making a living in the film industry in Poland.
      Neither Ordyński's failed attempts to add nation-specific cultural elements to
      these films nor the cultural accents of the Polish-speaking actors—including Biegański, Zofia Batycka, Adam
      Brodzisz, Junosza-Stępowski, Maria Malicka, and Bogusław Samborski—had any influence on their success. The
      longest running among them, The Doctor's Secret, remained in Warsaw cinemas for a mere seventeen days.
    

      The Transition in the Press
    

      While the transition from silent to sound film was taking place in the production studios and motion picture
      theaters in Poland, the debate over it was playing out in the press. Filled with advertisements, pictures of
      movie stars, film reviews, and production stills, cinema periodicals both informed and attracted audiences.
      Readers relied on them for advice in choosing the films they viewed in the theaters as well as for gossip about
      actors and beauty contests and news from home and abroad that shaped their moviegoing practices. The words and
      images that the editors chose to characterize the transition were certain to influence its outcome. This section
      samples the reactions of editors, film critics, and readers to these changes in the industry as they were
      happening during the 1929-30 season. Its main interest is in the terms and conclusions of the debate among cinema
      audiences; it does not consider theoretical writings but rather the reviews, reader responses to surveys,
      criticism, and publicized fan letters. These reviews do not constitute a study of spectatorship but offer an
      indication of the arguments for and against the privileging of spoken dialogue in film.
    

      Between 1896 and 1918, there existed only three Polish-language magazines devoted entirely to cinema. In the
      first decade after independence, however, fifty-two new periodicals were founded. Of these, twenty-two published
      only one issue, and many of the rest folded after just a few. The trade magazine Ekran i scena (Screen
      and Stage) was one of the most prestigious, earning recognition and wide readership as the official organ of the
      Association of Film Industrialists. Less prestigious but still successful were the trade publication
      Wiadomości filmowe (Film News) and one of many periodicals with the title Film. Although these
      periodicals mainly targeted owners of cinemas and distribution companies, they also included articles of interest
      to the general filmgoing public. Another trade magazine, Kino dla wszystkich (Cinema for Everyone), was,
      according to scholar Barbara Gierszewska, a trade magazine and a vehicle for
      the Association of Unions of Motion Picture Theaters and the Association of Film Industrialists.14 Beginning in 1930, the colorful,
      heavily illustrated, high-quality cinema magazine Kino (Cinema) offered a popular combination of
      cutting-edge advertisements, gossip, and beauty tips, as well as analytical writings. Other relatively successful
      popular periodicals devoted to cinema were Kinoświat (Cinemaworld), Kino-teatr
      (Cinema-Theater), and Srebny ekran (The Silver Screen). A few periodicals were short-lived but gained
      recognition for their eminent publishers, such as Franciszek Zyndram-Mucha's Film polski and
      Kino-Film (Cinema-Film), edited by Anatol Stern. Convincing writers to contribute to these periodicals
      appears to have posed few problems. When teenager Jerzy Bossak managed to publish a single number of his own
      periodical, Żywa sztuka (Live Art), with money collected from his parents and friends, even he was able
      to convince eminent writers Leo Belmont and Maria Wielopolska to contribute articles.15


      Most sources of film news were based in Warsaw, though two of the most enduring magazines—the weekly
      Światłowid (A Trace of Light) and the monthly Sygnały (Signals)—were published in Kraków and
      L'viv, respectively. In L'viv, film theorists from the avant-garde movement founded Awangarda: Niezależny
      tygodnik poświęcony sprawom teatru, radia i kina (Avant-Garde: An Independent Weekly Devoted to Issues in
      Theater, Radio, and Cinema) in 1933. It lasted one year. Przegląd filmowy, teatralny, radiowy (Film,
      Theater, and Radio Review), first published in L'viv but later moved to Kraków, lasted from 1929 until 1939.
      Ukrainian-language periodicals were published in L'viv, as well. In the former Prussian partition, Toruń-based
      Nasza scena i ekran (Our Stage and Screen) published three editions in 1925 and 1926. Regional
      periodicals in the western part of the country included Przegląd teatralny i filmowy (Theater and Film
      Review), Teatr (Theater), Sztuka (Art), Ekran (Screen), and Świat filmu
      (World of Film). In addition, Polish-language general-interest and daily newspapers ran pieces on cinema, usually
      in the cultural sections or in special weekly editions. Słonimski contributed a regular column to the daily
      Kurier polski (Polish Courier), while Leon Brun published in the daily Kurier warszawski
      (Warsaw Courier). Wielopolska and Seweryn Romin contributed regular columns on cinema to Głos prawdy
      (Voice of Truth). The weekly Świat (World) offered a steady stream of film reviews by various critics.
      Serious articles on cinema often appeared in literary and art journals.
      Completely rejecting sensationalism, the elitist literary magazine Wiadomości literackie retained
      prominent writers including Karol Irzykowski, Leonia Jabłonkówna, Słonimski, Stern, and Zahorska to review and
      analyze films. Although it was mainly devoted to literature and the visual arts, over the course of fifteen years
      Wiadomości literackie published reviews of 506 films. Other literary magazines offered regular columns
      on cinema, most notably Stern's in the monthly Skamander and Tadeusz Peiper's in the avant-garde
      Zwrotnica (Switch).
    

      Writing in minority languages is more difficult to find. Shorter reviews and nontheoretical pieces appeared in
      the Yiddish newspapers Der moment (Moment) and Haynt. The Yiddish literary review
      Literarishe bleter (Literary Pages) carried film reviews as well. The Ilustrirter magazin
      (Illustrated Magazine) included film reviews among its articles on art, theater, sports, and radio in 1927.
      Writing on film in Yiddish remained quite limited, however. Periodicals from the mid-1930s (contemporary with the
      first Yiddish talkies), such as Film zeitung (Film Newspaper) and Film naies (Film News),
      lasted only one issue. Another, Film velt (Film World), was attractive and nicely illustrated but
      offered little more than advertisements and repetitive reviews of a few films. Alter Kacyzne edited the more
      ambitious bimonthly Mayn redendinger film (My Talking Film), in which Yiddish writers published
      essays, fiction, poetry, plays, and screenplays, from 1937 to 1939. Ukrainian film periodicals included the
      L'viv-based Radio-kino-foto (Radio-Cinema-Photography) and Sonia Kulikivna's Dni (Days), which
      appeared in the early to mid-1930s.16


      As Gierszewska notes, the staff at most cinema magazines consisted of an editor in chief, a secretary, and
      sometimes a managing editor.17 Correspondents, who worked for several periodicals simultaneously, supplied most of the
      material. On one hand, this meant that journalists had to search constantly for work and ran the risk of
      repeating themselves in various publications. On the other hand, the lack of consistency opened the door for
      nonprofessionals to express their views about events taking place in the film industry. Poets, including Bruno
      Jasieński, Słonimski, Stern, Aleksander Wat, and Adam Ważyk paid tribute to cinema. Musicians, artists,
      feuilletonists, and a few academics took issue with the social, educational, and ideological aspects of cinema in
      creative ways. Because they displayed such an interesting range of perspectives, it is not surprising that cinema
      periodicals were popular. Most, however, were not profitable. They barely
      scraped by and often missed issues or had to close temporarily when funds were late or missing. The main problem
      lay in the reluctance or inability of publishers to secure backing from institutions or advertisers.
    

      In spite of their unpredictability—or perhaps because of it—cinema periodicals were often as interesting as the
      films that they promoted. Criticism of individual films has a long tradition in Poland, where the critical review
      became established as a mode of film writing in the first part of the century. In one of the first examples,
      Zdzisław Dębicki fit his impressions of Antoni Bednarczyk's 1911 version of Stefan Żeromski's novel The Story
      of Sin into a Kurier warszawski article-review.18 In this piece, Dębicki claims that film bridges literature and
      "the crowds," and he laments that in many cases, film adaptations of literature could not do justice to the
      originals. His pattern—the establishment of a broad theoretical principle that the writer then marshals to the
      criticism of a specific film—illustrates the structure of the early film review. Editors developed this format
      throughout the silent film period, and it was securely in place by the transition to sound film. Film reviews
      grew into powerful negotiators between the film industry and its customers during the silent period. Critics were
      trusted to supply audiences with a greater understanding of the films that they had just seen and advice on
      choosing the films that they would see in the future. Aware of the importance of the genre, editors created
      special sections for reviews and worked to recruit and retain reviewers as regular correspondents.
    

      Women were exceptionally successful in the field of film criticism. Over the course of the interwar period,
      Zahorska alone wrote hundreds of film reviews. An art historian by training, she founded, edited, and published
      the periodical Wiek XX (Twentieth Century), which lasted from April through September 1928. After this
      enterprise folded, Zahorska became a regular contributor of film reviews to Wiadomości literackie.
      Through these reviews, she and her colleague Jabłonkówna left a trove of information and opinion on the merits
      and deficiencies of films, both imported and domestic. Stefania Heymanowa also regularly contributed film reviews
      and feature articles to various publications. These three, together with Zofia Dromlewiczowa and Wanda
      Kalinowska, were among the most prolific film critics of the period. Each took a feminist perspective on film
      criticism, though each saw gender issues in her own way. Heymanowa, for example, argued against the static roles
      of "the uhlan and the girl"19 that she saw portrayed in many domestic films, and she
      criticized common representations of young women standing vacantly by the sides of (often unsuccessful)
      revolutionaries. A writer for periodicals ranging from the popular Kino to the academic Wiadomości
      literackie, she also served as a bridge between political activists, cinema enthusiasts, and intellectuals.
      Kalinowska's interests lay in the education of young women and the influence of film on their development. In her
      regular Kino column, Permissible and Recommended, Kalinowska advised readers about the usefulness of
      current releases for educational purposes, particularly with regard to young women.
    

      Film periodicals also provided a forum for the debate over the transition to sound films. In addition to
      theoretical writings, magazines presented straightforward comments by filmgoers in new audience review sections.
      It is entirely possible that at least some of this audience opinion was a fabrication of editors who wished to
      push the debate forward and create an image of a general audience in favor of the transition. In July 1930, the
      editors of Kino conducted a survey on the pluses and minuses of sound motion pictures. Readers were
      asked to send their comments and evaluations of the first season of sound film. The most energetic of these
      readers, "Juanitta" and "Gerhard Littchen," brought out exactly the issues that Kino had been trying to
      raise for a while.20
      Juanitta, a "passionate supporter of talkies," professed hurt over criticisms of sound films (distinguishing them
      from talkies) and pointed out that the public had overwhelmingly shown appreciation for them in the past season:
      "Sound film has triumphed. Silent film has taken a tumble and will never return to its former glory," she claims,
      because the public had accepted the new technology and was excited by the possibility of creating realistic
      scenes that make spectators feel connected to and a part of the action on the screen. Juanitta contends that
      arguments against subtitled films border on expressions of xenophobia: "'We don't want to listen to films with
      dialogue in foreign languages' is a statement that, in my opinion, expresses extreme nationalism. Foreign
      languages, even when they are not understood by audiences, by no means interrupt the film. . . . [T]he sound of
      human speech . . . even if it is not understandable, makes the film more realistic and enhances the mood of each
      individual scene."21
      Juanitta also claims that domestic productions are not of the same artistic caliber as American films and that
      these imports, therefore, will remain more popular than domestic films among the public until domestic filmmakers
      increase the quality of their work.
    

In the following issue's reader responses, Gerhard Littchen agrees with
      Juanitta's opinion on subtitles: "Film is an art, and, as such, it is not acceptable to pull it into the
      political arena. . . . If there are several versions of the original film, how should we bring it to Poland? Here
      we must completely keep politics out of it! We must bring films to Poland in the languages, other than Polish,
      that are known by the largest number of people. These languages are French and German. English is further down
      the list."22


      Because they relate to cinema as a whole rather than individual films, editorials offer, perhaps, the keenest
      views of the transition. Writers described the stakes of the transition, its influence on audiences and cinematic
      practices, and the long-term consequences of this development in the international arena. Leon Brun was among the
      first editors to show an active interest in the transition to sound. Over the course of the interwar period, Brun
      founded and edited a large number of periodicals, including Film, Filmia, Kino dla wszystkich, and
      Kino. Brun's attentiveness to the advance of sound film technology is apparent in his selection of
      articles opposing or welcoming sound film in his periodicals just before, during, and after the transition. His
      own essays displayed sadness over the transition: "Everything changed radically in the moment that film moved
      from a means of visual expression to a means of verbal expression. The transition was too abrupt. Instead of
      teaching the Great Silent to speak and sing, Hollywood executives killed her, seating themselves on the throne of
      the new divine Talkies."23
      Brun was an Esperanto activist, and his disappointment in the talkies probably had much to do with his belief in
      silent film as a universal language.
    

      Articles from 1929 in Kino dla wszystkich consider many aspects of the impending transition. In general,
      however, they are either fervently for or fervently against the importation of sound film technology. Those
      against the transition pointed to its implications for cinematic practices, including exhibition, in Poland.
      Playwright Adolf Nowaczyński (Adolf Neuwert-Nowaczyński), for example, praises silent cinema in his January 15,
      1929, article, "Let the Great Silent Remain," because he feels that silent cinema allows audiences the
      flexibility to arrive with unshaven beards and in unflattering clothes. Silent film, he contends, is therapeutic
      and relaxing, and should not change. In his view, because film with synchronized sound requires the viewer to
      process information using the senses of sight and hearing, cinema becomes burdensome.24 Kino dla wszystkich editor Brun
      responded in the same issue with "And if the Great Silent Wants to Speak?" claiming that a film that is seen and heard at the same time offers viewers more than one that is only
      seen.25


      Commentators touched on more than the act of cinema viewing, though. They contemplated the very nature of film
      and the business practices of the industry. In "What I Think about 'Sound Films,'" contributor J. Truszkowska
      writes that sound film is only potentially an art form. She reminds readers that talkies were born in a country
      wealthier than Poland and argues that sellers of sound film equipment must lower its cost for poorer
      countries.26 Subsequently,
      in April 1930, Brun and the editors of the newly founded Kino warn against the invasion of foreign film
      industries. In "Polish Film" they write, "And so: films in foreign languages, coming from foreign production
      studios, projected on foreign equipment—this is the look of cinematography in Poland."27 In October of the second season of sound film,
      critic Toeplitz asks in Kino, "Is the 'Talkie' Killing Cinema?"28 and the obscure filmmaker W. Jezierski contributes an article
      titled "Sound Film Is a Great Discovery, but. . . ." Jezierski claims that silent films are much more economical
      than sound films but backs up his claim with only the tangentially related statement "Silent film was an
      international art form—talking films will never be!"29


      Those who favored the transition pointed to sound film's potential as an art form, its relevance to national
      production, and the possible financial gains associated with the importation of the technology. For example, in
      early 1929, Brun published an American viewpoint on the pages of Kino dla wszystkich. In "Cinema as a
      Universal Language," an article translated for the periodical, actor Douglas Fairbanks claims that film unites
      the world emotionally and spiritually and at the same time exposes people around the globe to the products of
      American commercial consumerism. While the idea of film as a universal language was heartily embraced by film
      writers and theorists, the same writers firmly rejected the second part of Fairbanks's argument, the promotion of
      American commercialism. Brun wrote many articles on the practical implications of the onslaught of sound films
      from abroad. For example, in his winter 1929 essays "The Art of Film at the Crossroads" and "An Outline of the
      Transition in Cinema Development: More on Talking Films," he analyzes the immense technological and financial
      risk involved in the transition. His own call to intensify the debate appeared in a front-page article on June
      15, 1929. In this article, Brun explains the technical aspects of sound film production and exhibition, and he
      frets over the financial situation of studios in the United States and Europe during the transition. The main concern for Brun and his writers, however, was the potential impact of
      sound on the film industries of individual nations, including Poland.
    

      Brun also took part in a spring 1930 survey in Świat that asked filmmakers and critics to assess the
      state of domestic production with regard to sound film. The answers varied. Sfinks director Henryk Finkelstein
      and Leon Łuskino, director of the governmental Central Film Agency, offered suggestions for encouraging film
      production in Poland but gave differing opinions on the transition to sound. Finkelstein responds, "We must get
      used to the fact that silent film has died, and nothing will bring it back to life," while Łuskino asks readers
      not to turn their backs on silent film and claims that silent and sound films would coexist in Poland in separate
      cinemas. Uninterested in judging films solely on the presence or absence dialogue, Brun states plainly, "For me
      there is only one way of dividing films: good and bad." In his response to the survey, actor and producer
      Zagrodzki was generally pessimistic about sound film, pointing to the inevitable bankruptcy of most cinemas in
      the country because of the transition. In a January 1931 Kino editorial, "The Talkies Revolution Is a
      Threat to Cinema," Brun argues that the Europe that had welcomed silent films was now cold to the idea of talking
      motion pictures from the same Hollywood studios. Brun contends that language barriers result in the (mostly
      unofficial) banning of films from certain countries. He writes that German-language films are not shown in
      Poland, French films are not shown in Germany, Hungarian films are banned in Czechoslovakia, "and vice versa, not
      to mention films speaking 'in American,' which nobody wants to hear." As a result, he notes, angry European
      audiences have gone so far as to demand the return of their money for American films that had been hits in the
      United States. Brun also disparages the making of films in multiple languages (presumably referring to
      Paramount's Joinville studio efforts), because the process deprives film of its greatest asset,
      internationalism.30
      (Obviously, audiences agreed.)
    

      To this day, readers admire Antoni Słonimski's stinging critiques of interwar society for their combination of
      passion and passivity. The fashionable medium of the times, the feuilleton (a type of newspaper essay-column,
      usually lighthearted and insightful), was a primary factor in the development of film criticism in independent
      Poland, and Słonimski was among the most admired feuilletonists. In addition to his film column, Kino, in
      Kurier polski, Słonimski penned The Weekly Chronicles for Wiadomości literackie from 1927 until
      the outbreak of World War II. Słonimski often referred to cinema in his
      feuilletons, which provided a running commentary on the films that he saw on his many evenings in the cinema. He
      coupled his opinions on the films with his opinions on the nations and cultures that produced them, as well as
      his opinions on the public that accompanied him to the cinema.
    

      Irzykowski's March 16, 1930, Kino essay, "What Do I Think about Sound Films?" continued the debate:
    

      I have boycotted talking films since the moment of their birth with as much perseverance as my grandfather
      boycotted the iron railway. I figured it best to wait until the matter became clear. I let others, and there are
      countless others, gawk (how could I make this phrase easy on the ears?) at these diapers. And so, it was not so
      long ago that I was still the only person in Warsaw who had not seen-heard a sound film, that is, until Editor
      Brun woke me from my nap of proud conservatism and said, "Irzykowski, author of The Tenth Muse, don't
      dodge this one. Go to a sound film and write to me about how it was the first time." I have been there not only
      once, but two times already. In truth, like the maidens of this modern age, I was already internally prepared
      because "they had told me" and I had read a bit about it. The men's singing quartet with piano accompaniment—this
      was the first bullet to hit me. How they smiled at me, the cavernous mouths! As if they wanted to tell me, "Look,
      we really are singing." I, on the other hand, replied stubbornly, "No, this is just something singing."
      They came closer to me, one after the other, coquettishly moving their lips as though with delight, naturally,
      not only because they were actually singing for me, yes, for me, but in general because they were finally
      singing, because the dam between their voices and their pictures had broken.31


      For Irzykowski, the transition to sound gave filmmakers more control over the medium of communication. He states
      that he agrees with people who perceive that the source of sound is not the screen but somewhere else, noticing
      that it is only a suggestion of sound rather than audible, distinguishable noises. He had expected this, he
      writes, but it still strikes him as unique to cinema. He claims that his trip to the cinema has helped him to
      understand the need for interaction between the senses of sight and hearing. He writes, "I had made a mistake
      about the extent of collaboration between the two senses. When an excellent artist performs in the theater, not
      wanting to miss a word (Kamiński has been speaking quietly and unclearly lately), I listen to him with
      binoculars. And it helps me."32


      According to Irzykowski, audiences' need for illusion is strong and unwavering enough that they are willing to
      turn metaphors or illusions into evidence of truth in various, often strange
      situations. He notes audiences rely on metaphor, liberally and eagerly making connections between humans and
      objects. He uses several interesting examples to prove his point. He states that illusion-seeking people are
      likely to perceive a human face in a piece of wood or to hear a baby's cry in an owl's hoot. He expresses
      disappointment in the lack of illusion in sound film. He writes, "The grand art lives a lie, or more accurately
      relies upon some kind of basic exclusion of certain elements and the isolation of others." He writes that the
      technology of filmmaking does not automatically disenable it from growing into an art form. In this final
      statement on film aesthetics, he demonstrated his ongoing belief in the rules that he had developed in The
      Tenth Muse, including less montage, more movement, and no voices.
    

      Finally, amateur poets dedicated their verse to the transition. An excerpt from a poem by Juljusz Pogoń-Ślizowski
      asks,
    

      That was my film, everyday, noiseless, silent . . .
    

      I listened intently to the quiet, my eyes fixed on the shadow.
    

      Every aspect of the human soul and sensibility
    

      I appreciated without a word and without a sound.
    

      Until suddenly, my God! What has happened here?"33


      Cinema Owners as Investors in Production
    

      When the press in Poland first mentioned the talking films that were causing a stir on the other side of the
      Atlantic Ocean in the summer of 1928, economic recession was just around the corner. This global crisis resulted
      in a catastrophic fall in both production and consumption of almost all goods, a rise in unemployment, and other
      related problems. By 1934, the country was much poorer, modernization had slowed considerably, and the material
      situation of most of the population had worsened, while the population was growing at one of the highest rates in
      Europe. The transition to sound made the leading position of the largest film industries unassailable. The United
      States and Germany controlled the world market by dictating the conditions under which small and medium-sized
      film industries were developing. An ideal overseas market for these leaders was one based on consumption rather
      than production, one in which imported films greatly outnumbered domestic films. Such a market, the industry
      leaders knew, could not afford to scoff at its suppliers. Poland was one of
      these ideal markets: it had no choice but to buy and adapt to the new sound system once the United States had
      switched to sound films.
    

      Cinema owners had the first and final word in the transition. They owned the spaces for exhibition, decided on
      repertoires, dealt with audiences, and had the closest contacts with the government and with foreign companies.
      Despite constant complaints about their financial woes, they were in the best position to profit from films.
      Producers relied on motion picture theaters to project the films with the most profit potential. Through a system
      of exchange, film exhibitors supported, made possible, and, when necessary, stimulated production. It should be
      kept in mind, then, that even as filmmakers, critics, and others involved in the industry voiced their opinions
      on the transition to sound, the final decision rested with the cinema owners, whose actions were influenced more
      heavily by the dictates of the world's largest film industries than by their audiences' demands. Most
      significantly, cinema owners made their decision to implement the transition because they lacked a viable
      alternative.
    

      The excitement of the first season of talkies did not last. By 1931, cinema owners were again striking, this time
      motivated in part by the high cost of the transition. They had trouble finding films to project. This problem had
      been exacerbated by a government decree in March 1930, which required that 10 percent of all films shown in
      cinemas in Poland be domestic productions. (Some cinema owners simply ignored this rule.) Audiences complained
      not only about the need to read subtitles and the technical problems encountered in the transition but also about
      the quality of the new films. Producers had trouble adjusting to dialogue, and actors had trouble adjusting to
      the medium. Several years passed before distributors and exhibitors came to be comfortable with having made the
      transition.
    

      In 1932, cinema owners in Łódź, with the support of their union, declared that cinemas in and around the city
      would not install sound equipment. Łódź was Poland's second-largest city, and decisions made there were certain
      to have reverberations throughout the country. The cinema owners called for other areas to follow their lead,
      stating that such a boycott of the technology was in the national interest because it acted to limit imports as
      well as to retain the employment of theater musicians. (Most had lost their jobs with the introduction of sound.)
      Smaller protests followed the boycott in other cities, including Warsaw. Out of 711 cinemas in the country, only
      112 showed sound films in 1930. Less than two years later, 353 showed sound
      films. Not surprisingly, cinemas equipped for sound were located mainly in the largest cities such as Warsaw,
      where fifty-one sound cinemas and three silent cinemas coexisted in 1932. In contrast, Vilnius and its
      surrounding region in the northeast had only one sound cinema and eighteen silent cinemas in the same year. As
      studios stopped making silent films, many cinemas that did not have the capacity to show sound films closed their
      doors. In 1934, the total number of cinemas in the entire country was 707.34 It is not clear how many of these were silent; but by the end
      of 1935, the number of silent cinemas was one hundred, and by 1939, only eighteen.35


      Further problems with the transition to sound arose from the shrinking choice of repertoire available to motion
      picture theater owners, foreign domination in the distribution sector, taxation of tickets, poor financial
      returns on forced exhibition of unpopular films through block booking, and the influence of authoritarian Germany
      on an increasingly xenophobic and divided society. These practical problems combined with the more abstract
      problem of assessing audiences' tastes in sound film to create a very difficult time for exhibitors. As cinema
      owners became a major force in film production as well as in distribution and advertising, ultimate
      responsibility for the quality of films rested with fewer and fewer people. These people tended to look to
      American films instead of their own audiences for inspiration and ideas. For example, if an American comedy sold
      many tickets in Poland or in the United States, cinema owners would decide to make a similar domestic comedy,
      usually without much success.
    

      The sound revolution placed on the shoulders of distributors and cinema owners the additional burden of finding
      an adequate number of talkies of the most desirable quality. As production levels approached their low point,
      owners could not look to their own national industry to fulfill their needs for sound films. It is not surprising
      that distribution came under the control of large companies from the United States and Germany and that these
      companies chose this moment to increase their overseas representation.
    

      Poland was an easy market to conquer for more than purely economic reasons. For Hollywood companies wishing to
      expand their territory, Poland may have felt familiar and comfortable. A new generation had been born in the
      United States from the eastern European immigrants of the late nineteenth century. Some spoke the languages of
      the region and still retained ties with the old country. Although an immediate problem arose for American producers when audiences in Poland expressed frustration with Hollywood's retirement
      of many silent stars and its promotion of new stars, within a season or two these audiences came to like the new
      stars as well as the old. Paramount's production studio at Joinville was one such effort, and its result—five
      films in Polish that were all but rejected by audiences in Poland—demonstrates that audiences were not interested
      in this type of filmmaking.
    

      In distribution, the industry was involved mainly in cross-Atlantic trade. The United States was by far the most
      powerful exporter of early sound films to Poland. Germany had a smaller, yet notable, presence. Germans could
      travel easily to Warsaw on the railroad that stretched from Berlin to Moscow, and they also had the opportunity
      to market to a German-speaking minority in parts of the country. In Silesia, for example, the generally wealthier
      German-speaking population and the poorer Polish-speaking population often argued over the language of films
      shown in theaters because each group wanted to see films in its own language. German speakers, thanks in part to
      their ties with German distribution companies, repeatedly won the arguments. Germany never attained the same
      level of screen presence in Poland that the United States enjoyed, but in light of the growing fascism in
      Germany, even its relatively small presence caused concern within Poland as the decade wore on.
    

      Cinema owners faced many problems. Of immediate concern to them was the cost of maintaining cinemas. American
      imports were expensive, sound equipment was expensive, and citizens were becoming poorer by the day. Five Warsaw
      cinemas closed between 1930 and 1931 alone, leaving only fifty-four by 1932. (The number of cinemas in the entire
      country, 711 in 1930, dropped by a dozen or so each year until 1934.) The average number of tickets sold per
      capita fell from 12 to 9.6 in 1931, and profits were down by 30 percent. Many cinemas closed for part of each
      week in order to save money. The short films that they projected in exchange for financial incentives were not
      popular with audiences. Worried about the situation and unable to reverse their decision to make the transition
      to sound, cinema owners renewed their complaints about taxation of tickets. Owners in Warsaw, Łódź, and towns in
      Silesia decided to strike in 1931.36 They demanded a 25 percent reduction of the tax during the summer, citing lower attendance
      in those months, and a 15 percent reduction during the winter. In Warsaw, the strike lasted from June 1 to June
      18 and included all Warsaw cinemas except one. This resulted in a reduction only in the summer tax rate.
      Negotiations the next year led to a reduction in the tax rates on foreign productions to 10 percent for
      educational films, 25 percent for "artistic" films (a new category that
      included avant-garde films), and 60 percent for films considered merely entertaining. The government taxed
      domestic films at a rate of 5, 10, and 40 percent in accordance with the same categories.37


      Although the tax reductions lowered the cost of tickets, cinemas remained in poor financial condition.
      Installation of the equipment for projecting sound films had exhausted the financial resources of many, and
      rental of sound films was twice as expensive as rental of silent films. Audience numbers continued to decline in
      the 1931 and 1932 seasons. Additional lowering of ticket prices still did not help to attract audiences, whose
      list of complaints only began with the high cost of entrance to the cinema. A "mandatory donation" to the Polish
      Red Cross added to ticket prices by the government in 1932 did not help, nor did the tax for the "Work Fund"
      added in the following year. These organizations had nothing to do with the film industry. Taxing audiences in
      this way did not benefit the film industry; it was simply an easy way to collect money for charitable
      organizations and government agencies in need. Cinema owners also suffered because of the financial problems of
      other sectors of the film industry. As the number of motion picture theaters dwindled and the costs of film
      rental grew, distributors used "block booking" to increase profits. They demanded that cinema owners sign
      contracts to rent less popular films in exchange for the right to rent the potentially popular ones. Audiences
      with little money to spend on entertainment took out their frustration at having these less popular films foisted
      on them by refusing to return to the cinemas in which they were projected. Distribution companies further
      worsened the situation by allowing several cinemas in a market area to show the same film at the same time.
    

      In a move that had a huge impact on the film industry of the 1930s, business-savvy cinema owners found a partial
      solution to their problems by implementing a system of credit to encourage domestic production. Cinema owners
      began offering their knowledge and financial support to accomplished producers, who were looking for new
      investors to offset the drastically increased cost of film production during the transition. Reminding producers
      that they had expertise in predicting audiences' likes and dislikes, cinema owners set demands before signing
      contracts with producers. Besides choosing or altering the screenplays producers presented to them, cinema owners
      chose the actors, the directors, and even the sets and costumes for films. Cinema owners grew more powerful as
      films became more expensive. However, they did not offer cash to producers,
      but wrote promissory notes. Leasers of studio space, laboratories, and other companies and individuals that made
      the productions possible grudgingly accepted these promissory notes in lieu of cash, because for them (and for
      the actors who had long before learned that they had to fight to be paid at all for their work), this system was
      better than no system at all.38 The situation may have been frustrating for some in the industry and dreadful for
      experimental filmmakers, but it raised technical standards and ensured that cinema owners felt comfortable
      promoting domestic productions. Because of this system, it was the owners of studios and laboratories who helped
      cinema owners to finance production, as well as Agfa, Kodak, and, according to Edward Zajíček, "a guy named
      Koper, hanging out at Ziemiańska with a cup of straw tea (he suffered from stomach ulcers). We know little about
      him even though he was one of the main investors in Polish film production in the interwar period."39


      Investment in production was the main way in which cinema owners stayed afloat during the first years of the
      transition, but they found other ways as well. One was to sell blocks of screen time to advertisers. The practice
      of showing advertisements in the minutes just before feature films had existed for several years before the
      transition to sound, but it was only in the early 1930s that it became permanent. Advertising agencies
      specializing in cinema made slide-show advertisements selling almost every product imaginable: car radiators,
      fishing poles, lingerie, musical instruments, restaurants, soap, toothpaste, and vodka. As motion picture theater
      owners saw how profitable this policy was, the advertisements increased in number and duration until many
      sessions lasted as long as forty-five minutes.
    

      Cinema owners fought incessantly to keep their businesses afloat, and this willingness to fight ensured their
      influence in the industry. They were financial backers and consultants for domestic production, controllers of
      the interiors and exteriors of cinemas, and mediators between the government and their customers. Still, it was
      not until the economic situation in the country improved that national and local governments were willing to
      lessen the tax burden on cinema owners. In the summer of 1936, the Ministry of Internal Affairs finally
      established an upper tax limit of 60 percent on foreign films shown in Warsaw and 35 percent on foreign films
      shown in other cities. This piece of tax legislation strongly supported the Polish film industry by limiting the
      tax rate to 5 percent on domestic films shown in Warsaw and 3 percent on those shown in other cities. By ceasing
      to differentiate between educational and entertainment films, the Ministry of
      Internal Affairs encouraged business-oriented production based entirely on potential audience appeal. Two months
      later, the same ministry expressed concern over the lack of cinemas in some small towns. It decided to free new
      cinemas built in areas that did not yet have one from taxation for a period of five years. This decision may not
      have led to the construction of many new cinemas (most potentially profitable areas already had them, and there
      were still 152 towns with no cinema at all in 1937), but it did demonstrate heightened government interest in
      developing the film industry in Poland.40


      Still, the cost of making a feature film soared. Financial returns were less than secure, and a run of less than
      two months meant failure and bankruptcy. The financial risks associated with making films in Poland at this time
      were so great that banks refused to lend money to producers, leaving the burden to fall on cinema owners and
      private investors. Cinema owners, filmmakers, critics, and in one case even a lawyer who wished to facilitate
      better film production put forth their ideas. These ranged from the creation of a special bank for the film
      industry, a mortgage system, the centralization of production companies into one dominant company, and the
      imposition of limits on the number of domestic films made each year in exchange for better financing.41 Nothing seemed to work. Financial
      troubles did not keep filmmakers from making films entirely, but it did prompt them to join forces, to experiment
      with short films, and to freelance their talent to businesspeople searching for new ways of advertising their
      products. Although all of these were partial solutions to the economic situation, in the end they also caused
      people to question whether the transition to sound was a good idea.
    

      Subtitles and the First Sound Film Exhibitions
    

      Film distributors and film exhibitors felt the waves of political, social, and technological change that swept
      over the region throughout these four decades, and it was in these areas that the industry's ability to
      anticipate the approach of change and to adapt to its demands was most harshly tested. Unlike filmmakers and
      writers, exhibitors and distributors paid little heed to film artistry or intellectual debate. Instead, they paid
      attention to their customers, their sites of exhibition, and the governments with which they had to negotiate for
      everything from transportation and taxation concerns to censorship. The
      circles in which exhibitors and distributors moved, then, were broader than those of the production studios and
      presses. Exhibitors knew domestic filmmakers, actors, and publicists as well as foreign companies and local
      leaders. Their union was large and aware of its power to influence government decisions by organizing strikes and
      boycotts. In periods of uncertainty, such as the earliest days of the traveling cinema and the transition from
      silent to sound film, exhibitors used their social standing to take control of other parts of the industry, most
      notably, production.
    

      They were not perfect. The success of exhibitors and distributors depended on their understanding of current
      cultural practices within the country and in international relations. They sometimes based their repertoires on
      poorly calculated assumptions about their audiences' wishes. For example, as they attempted to invigorate the
      industry after the transition to sound during the depression of the early 1930s, cinema owners became more
      cautious about their choices. They supported the production of one-dimensional domestic films in the majority
      language instead of exploiting one of the country's major cultural strengths, that is, its intellectual and
      linguistic diversity.
    

      As the 1928-29 season ended, cinema owners in Warsaw declared that the next season was to be the season of sound.
      The decision was difficult and required the dismissal of warnings by the president of the Association of Unions
      of Motion Picture Theaters, Feliks Wóycicki, against the transition.42 The main concern at the time was the cost of the equipment. The
      choices were the prohibitively expensive Western Electric and Tobis-Klangfilm (from 1930) equipment, as no
      domestic sound equipment had been invented.43 There was no time to wait, however. Many motion picture theaters decided to employ the new,
      expensive projector regardless of the cost. One cinema, Atlantyk, was built with the transition in mind. Large
      and modernist, Atlantyk advertised fifteen hundred comfortable seats, a well-placed balcony, and the first
      electric system in a Polish cinema. The costs of installing the new projection equipment were enormous. To the
      price of buying the equipment, a cinema owner needed to add the ongoing cost of maintaining it. Under most
      circumstances, owners would have covered these costs by raising ticket prices, but as the economic crisis
      worsened day by day, this was not an option.
    

      After a few months of using the sound equipment, cinema owners recognized that it limited their repertoires and
      forced them to think about the limitations imposed by dialogue. Musicals and
      other films that used the new technology most effectively required suitable sound systems. Among exhibitors in
      Poland, the most popular system was that of Western Electric, on which they projected American films. Because
      domestic production was so scanty in the first season of sound film, this did not pose much of an immediate
      problem. It did drive people to question cultural production and exhibition in different languages, however, and
      raised awareness of a hierarchy of language that was being established in the film industry.
    

      Language had been a major issue in cinema exhibition since the turn of the twentieth century. The language issues
      that divided audiences were far too deep and broad for exhibitors to overcome; language often served as a
      scapegoat for very serious political and social instability. It is not surprising that violence over the issue of
      intertitles flared up during the two years that it took for the talkies revolution to migrate from the United
      States to Poland. If intertitles were a perceived threat to national language, then subtitles were the real
      thing. After all, intertitles still gave exhibitors the option of claiming impartiality through simultaneous
      projection. Subtitles took away this option. In the volatile areas of the former Kingdom of Prussia, all parties
      demanded that their languages receive priority treatment.
    

      As scholar Danuta Sieradzka writes in an article describing her archival research in Katowice, about half of the
      owners of motion picture theaters in Silesia were of German descent: the first official report on their
      nationalities in 1928 found that thirty-two of the sixty-six cinemas in the region belonged to Germans. She
      writes, "The Polish administration put together and compiled exact statistics concerning the individuals
      responsible for cinema. Local authorities scrupulously gathered material provided many interested people with
      data about cinema owners' nationalities, political leanings, and relationships with the Polish government. These
      reports were usually made available under the clause, 'strictly confidential.'"
    

      Among the confidential material, Sieradzka discovers, "Karol Mansfeld—Born May 26, 1897 in Freistadt (Fryštát,
      Czechoslovakia), he lives in Bielsko. He is the proprietor of the Teatr świetlny Bielsko cinema. Of
      German nationality, he speaks Polish when necessary. He treats the Polish state unfavorably." Another entry
      reads, "Rybnik—Pałac cinema—owner Aleksy Leuchter (merchant). Born July 19, 1866 in Rybnik—he is of the
      Faith of Moses. At the time of the plebiscite, he was favorably disposed toward Germany. He presently does not
      present himself as a German speaker. A loyal citizen, he has a good command of
      the German language." And yet another notes, "The Polonia cinema in Rydułtowy. The owner is Jan Żymelka,
      a shoemaker by profession. He is a Polish citizen of undecided nationality. He does not take part in political
      life. In private, he speaks Polish as well as German."44


      Urszula Biel explains the authorities' interest in the ethnic identity of cinema owners in Silesia: "For years
      and even centuries, inhabitants of the region had recognized the existence of a language as it pertained to
      operative bilingualism, and nothing brought to light one's own speech like contact with another." She claims that
      there were four linguistic divisions in the region: literary Polish, a Silesian dialect, High German, and a
      German dialect. She writes, "If the last two existed without conflict and interchangeably, then Polish and
      Silesian often found themselves in opposition as intense as that between Silesian and German. Therefore, a Polish
      Upper Silesian suffered the absurdity of political battles and their multidimensional pressure even on the level
      of language. Confidential assessments of cinema owners always contained information about the language that they
      spoke." Biel notes that the Piłsudski government's program of sanacja aimed to eliminate German from everyday
      public life in Silesia. "Cinema," she writes, "was perfect for this. Every day, thousands of people gathered to
      spend time pleasantly together, and at the same time, they were fortuitous, unorganized, and unequipped to
      protect themselves from ideological pressures."45 German suffered the most under the program of Polonization, in which dual-language
      intertitles and advertisements were criticized. Biel notes that Polish speakers directed hostility toward
      English, too, complaining that the American firm Foxfilm had sent its New Year greetings in English only.
    

      Sieradzka mentions that a number of motion picture theaters in Silesia belonged to patriotic Poles who actively
      took part in the social and political life of the region. One, Świt, was a part of a workers' hotel that belonged
      to the PPS. Sieradzka describes one of many protests staged by Silesians after German audience members physically
      attacked a Katowice opera group that was accompanying a screening of Halka in Opole on April 28, 1929.
      After the protest, which took place on May 7, 1929, in the Dom Narodowy in Cieszyń, a resolution called for
      Polish intertitles on all projected films. It also demanded removal of the words "Deutsches Theater" from the
      theater in Cieszyń and the changing of German street names in the town. A boycott of German films lasted from May
      9 until May 12. Sieradzka explains that the owner of the Elektryczny cinema went against the protesters' wishes
      and that the owner of the Miejski cinema continued to project subtitles in
      both languages. Violence followed. From May 10 through May 15, young protesters tore down German-language signs
      throughout the town. The Kraków regional government, as a result, outlawed the showing of films with German
      intertitles in the Biała Małopolska area on June 14, 1929, a couple weeks after Cieszyń saw still more protests
      against German films.46


      In "Controversies Surrounding the Kinoteatr Miejski in Biała," Magdalena Ślusarek describes a similar situation
      as it unfolded in the neighboring towns of Bielsko and Biała (now the city of Bielsko-Biała), where German had
      been the majority language before World War I. Bruno Kratz, the owner of the Kinoteatr Miejski in Biała, had
      employed someone to interpret Polish intertitles for German-speaking audiences for years. On May 11, 1929,
      however, he projected Heut spielt der Strauss (Strauss, the Waltz King) with its original German
      intertitles. The decision caused uproar in among Polish-speaking audience members. Within four days, the district
      governor handed the mayor a declaration. In it, the governor claimed that German intertitles could lead to a
      disruption in the peace and public order, and, therefore, he forbade their use. Heated argument broke out the
      next day: German leaders worried that the law would keep German speakers, who constituted a two-thirds majority
      of audiences, away from the cinema. On May 27, they reached an agreement to project intertitles in both Polish
      and German. The controversy, however, continued for years.47 Biel notes the drastic drop in cinema attendance that
      accompanied these problems. In Katowice, audience numbers fell by one-fourth to nearly one-half from April to May
      1929.48


      The transition to sound added a new dimension to these conflicts over language. Audiences, because they did not
      understand the English spoken in American imports, expressed frustration over the lack of German or French sound
      films. As Sieradzka's examples indicate, however, when German and Austrian films were shown in Poznań and
      Silesia, fear spread among Polish speakers that German cinema posed a threat to their cultural lives. Sensing
      that the complaints were the result of difficulty in adjusting to subtitles because large numbers of the viewers
      were illiterate, cinema owners looked for alternatives. In towns and shtetls with large numbers of illiterate
      people, cinemas simply closed. Others remained open, some for several years, by showing old silent films and
      silent versions of new films. (Silent versions of sound films were common in the first years following the
      transition. The government did not consider the silent and sound versions of a film the same—distributors sold them individually, and they had to undergo censorship separately.) In remote
      areas or in places with only one cinema, advertisements for the silent version might have omitted mention of the
      sound version in order to convince audiences of the films' authenticity. People in the countryside, then, watched
      the "same" films that were shown in urban areas, not realizing or caring that there was another version. Because
      ticket prices in the provinces were one-quarter (or less) of the prices in the large cities and because a great
      number of people were unable to read subtitles, cinema owners' ability to turn a profit depended on the
      continuation of this supply of less expensive silent versions of new sound films.49 This option disappeared after 1932, however, and
      the silent cinemas that remained open through the rest of the decade were limited to older fare.
    

      The list of problems associated with the subtitling of imported films was exasperating. Even in big cities with
      widely literate audiences, the amount of dialogue in the first sound films meant that readers had to catch a
      great deal of information in a short amount of time. (Other than domestic production, the only alternative was
      dubbing. Dubbing, however, was very costly and immensely disliked by audiences.) Intertitles had taken up the
      entire screen and had been easy to read. Suddenly moviegoers found themselves shifting in their seats to see the
      subtitles, which were often sloppy translations, at the bottom of the picture. Subtitling sound films was much
      more complicated than photographing and inserting intertitles. To make subtitles, the technicians had to return
      to the negative of the film, which meant buying copies and duplicating them. In the case of films on their way to
      Poland, technicians in Paris working for American distribution companies customarily completed this process. The
      French technicians rarely knew Polish and, relying on translations based on scripts rather than on the finished
      films, made many mistakes. They glued the duplicated fragments to a copy owned by a Polish distributor. This
      practice often led to discrepancies between the written and spoken dialogue, and the glued-together pieces moved
      noisily through the projector. To alleviate this problem, technicians inserted potentially destructive cuts near
      the soundtrack. All of these problems made audiences impatient and disappointed, which in turn gave cinema owners
      reason to tremble.
    

      Only a few of the approximately fifty-seven motion picture theaters in Warsaw were in good physical and financial
      condition in 1929. The Splendid was one such cinema and, as such, was in an advantageous situation to jump-start
      the transition in September. Eight weeks later, another well-respected cinema,
      Światowid, started to project sound films from the United States, and in the third week of December, Tęcza joined
      in. Exhibitors projected a few talkies in the first few months of the season, including The Singing Fool
      and Show Boat. The Singing Fool was the most popular of these films, running for eighty-one days.
      Encouraged by its success, the owners of the Atlantic booked it in turn. At the close of the first sound season
      in summer 1930, thirteen Warsaw cinemas had shown ninety sound films, of which at least seventy were American and
      only one—the much-anticipated The Morality of Pani Dulska—was domestic. Audiences gave the most support
      to the interracial love story The Pagan, starring the popular Ramón Novarro, which remained on its
      premiere screen for 146 days. The Singing Fool was second at eighty-one days, while The Jazz
      Singer and The Morality of Pani Dulska each ran for forty-two days.
    

      In L'viv, motion picture theater owners opened some new establishments and remodeled others in anticipation of
      the transition during autumn 1929. The Stylowy on Szaszkiewicz Street offered six hundred seats and a balcony.
      The remodeled Casino on Legiony Street opened with seven hundred seats and, ironically, an eleven-person
      orchestra that soon became obsolete. Owners had to find a way to balance audiences' curiosity about sound films
      with their inability to project them; hence, The Singing Fool premiered at the Apollo in January 1930 as
      a silent film. Under pressure from audiences, several motion picture theaters in L'viv decided to restructure for
      sound the following spring. The hit of the season appears to have been The Morality of Pani Dulska,
      which remained at the Palace for several months. At the Apollo, audiences saw some domestic productions, but most
      of the repertoire was imported. The transition seemed to bring out local insecurities in a way that silent film
      had not. For example, local periodicals gave a great deal of attention both to Lejtes's decision to film part of
      his 1929 Z dni na dzień (From Day to Day) in the Polesie region near L'viv and to the flourishing acting
      career of a native L'viv resident, Maria Bogda.50 In L'viv and other regional centers of exhibition, cinema owners' problems with
      acclimating to talkies aggravated locals' feelings that the film industry was incapable of meeting its needs.
      Owners responded with half-true claims about the films to be exhibited and boasted of the accomplishments of
      locals. Censorship was strict. According to Dobrochna Dabert, the Lew motion picture theater projected a film
      about civil war in the Ukraine in 1919, but the government's withdrawal of permission to show the film in Poland
      kept many from viewing it.51 The harshness of censorship even prompted essayist
      Słonimski to complain, "'The joyful creativity' of film censorship demands—excuse me for using the
      phrase—sanacja," referring to the policies of the Piłsudski government.52


      Throughout the western part of the country, the transition exacerbated quarrels over owners' choice of equipment
      and the import of German films. With the exception of Katowice, where The Singing Fool was projected at
      Rialto in December 1929, cinema owners in the area waited as long as possible to install equipment and tested
      audiences' tastes as well as their patience.53 In Bydgoszcz, a scandal erupted when a motion picture theater claimed to have screened the
      1930 film Halka as a talkie. According to an article in Dziennik bydgoski, the sound component
      of the film consisted of songs played on a gramophone at all the wrong times—for example, when the "singing"
      character had his or her mouth closed. On May 22, 1930, the Nowości cinema used the Western Electric sound system
      to project an actual talkie, W. S. van Dyke's 1928 White Shadows in the South Seas, to a more satisfied
      crowd (the aforementioned article complained only that the aesthetic difference between intertitles and subtitles
      was negligible). A few months after Nowości's inauguration of sound film, the Kristal motion picture theater
      presented The Singing Fool, using an apparatus bought from a studio in Poznań, which claimed that its
      device could project a broad range of films. Recognizing the pluses and minuses of each available sound
      projection system, the owners of the Marysieńka cinema installed two systems: the system from Poznań and Warner
      Brothers' sound-on-disc system. They explained that, in order to show popular American films while acceding to
      customers' demands to support the Polish economy, they had to buy two projectors. None of first three cinemas to
      project sound film in Bydgoszcz (other cinemas began to follow suit in 1933) installed the Tobis-Klangfilm
      system; as a result, German-language films were rarely shown in this heavily German-speaking area in the first
      years of the talkies.54 The
      major Polish nationalist organization in Bydgoszcz appealed to the Marysieńka to avoid German-language films
      almost immediately after the cinema made the transition to sound. The press heavily scrutinized German films, as
      well. Ulrich Kayser's Land unterm Kreuz (A Country under the Cross) received reviews in Poland that
      focused negatively on its perceived anti-Polish representations.55


      Biel writes of the controversy surrounding the projection of A Country under the Cross in Silesia. The
      film, which was scheduled to premiere in Berlin and Gliwice in March 1927, touched on the plebiscite of five
      years earlier and its aftermath in Upper Silesia. The Polish government
      demanded that the film not be released, at least not in the volatile Opole region. After the film's delayed
      premiere, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs effectively forced a boycott of other German films about Upper Silesia
      by not accepting them for censorship. Biel writes, "The one positive consequence of German propaganda activities
      was the activation of filmmaking initiatives in Katowice, which had occurred rather sporadically up to this
      point. At the very first reports by the consul general of Poland in Opole relating the German plans for creating
      a Kulturfilm, there was an appeal for Poland to start making similar films."56 In its subsequent attempts to influence the image
      of Poland in German films, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs referred to German boycotts of foreign films that were
      deemed anti-German.57


      While some in the Polish film industry feared American dominance, others felt uncomfortable with the role of
      imported films from Germany. Although the focus of this discomfort was the rise of Adolf Hitler to power in
      Germany, it followed several years of tension. A youth movement had called for a boycott of German films in 1927
      in response to the projection in Germany of films that it considered anti-Polish.58 In March 1933, the Warsaw committee of the
      Association of Unions of Motion Picture Theaters called for a boycott of all films produced in Germany. Unions in
      Poznań and the Gdańsk regions soon followed suit. In some regions, it was more than just a film boycott. In
      western and northern areas, it was accompanied by a ban on imported goods and radio broadcasts from Germany, and
      even the German press. The direct pretext for the boycott was a rise in attacks on people with Polish citizenship
      in Germany, which critics characterized as attacks on the national honor, history, and culture of Poles. The
      boycott ended the following January, when the governments of Poland and Germany signed a non-aggression treaty.
      In September of the same year, Poland signed another pact with Germany, agreeing to show a certain number of
      German films proportionate to the number of films from Poland shown in Germany.59 None of these measures was very successful.
    

      One year later, the government put in place a quota system to limit the domination of foreign films on screens in
      Poland. Under this system, cinemas with repertoires consisting of at least 10 percent domestic full-length films
      yearly received a 25 percent tax reduction on the foreign films that they showed. The quota system worked only to
      promote domestic films on domestic screens, though, and even in this it was
      not very successful. Some cinemas simply refused to show domestic films regardless of financial incentives.
    

      The transition from silent to sound cinema was, to a certain extent, a Pandora's box that unleashed innumerable
      domestic and international problems. It was welcomed, to a certain extent. Sound cinema allowed filmmakers in
      Poland, like filmmakers around the world, to make films in their national language. It opened the door to
      musicals and other genre films. Its promise to better replicate reality excited some audiences. It encouraged
      some filmmakers and exhibitors to develop a national industry. Still, its proponents did not face an easy road to
      acceptance of the new technology. The transition from silent to sound film—which was, in effect, mandated by the
      film industry of the United States—occurred during a time of great change in the political landscape of Europe.
      The transition was scorned by film theorists in Poland, including Irzykowski, by many of the young members of the
      Society for the Promotion of Film Art (START, formed in 1930), by the avant-garde, and by proponents of the
      locally based Esperanto movement. Their writings after the transition display a sense of nostalgia for silent
      film, as though the talkies had displaced their own voices. In a sense, of course, they had been silenced, as
      audiences now had to remain quiet in the formerly boisterous theater. It would be wrong, however, to locate these
      writers' longing in any such cinematic practice. The problem with sound film was as intangible as it was obvious,
      and it was rooted as much in what language hides as in what it reveals. In part, concern over cinema's use of
      sound was connected to the idealistic notion that cinema constituted a universal language. However, the problem
      also had to do with audiences' cautious attachment to national language. After the transition, filmmakers had to
      choose a language for filmmaking. This dilemma resulted in a seven-year lapse in films based on Yiddish
      literature—the first Yiddish-language sound film would not be made until the mid-1930s—and the cessation of films
      on topics pertaining to speakers of all other minority languages in Poland. For many, it was too heavy a price to
      pay.
    










6
    

      The Transition in Practice, 1930-36
    

Flaming Hearts: Historical Sound Films
    

      WAS THERE A "POLISH NATIONAL CINEMA" before World War II? It is difficult to answer this question in a way that
      adequately reflects the conditions under which the fledgling film industry created and exhibited films before
      World War II. First, the film industry in Poland was never an entity completely separate from the film industries
      of western Europe and the United States. From French itinerant exhibitor Eugène Joachim DuPont to Yiddish film
      producer Joseph Green (Józef Grinberg), international representatives ensured that cinema was not a strictly
      national endeavor. Second, people came from every ethnic group to work in an industry that allowed for much more
      professional integration than other businesses. Those who made Yiddish-language films also made Polish-language
      films, and vice versa. Directors moved among several production companies. Many screenwriters spoke multiple
      languages; they and composers freelanced on projects for various producers. Critics wrote for several
      publications at a time. These were not isolated instances of interethnic cooperation: they were the norm. As
      important as it is to understand how separate national identities developed through cinema, it is even more
      important to recognize that they did not develop in isolation from each other.
    

      The linguistic and ethnic conflicts that plagued exhibition were both practical and abstract, and they defied
      solution. According to film scholar Alina Madej, exhibitors perceived Polish-Catholic patriotic films as
      attractive—a magnet—to audiences: "After Poland gained independence, it seemed as though this magnet would become
      a broadly conceived notion of Polishness. In the interwar years, there began
      to take shape a model of a film spectator that was to serve to disarm the more or less imaginary Polish
      inferiority complexes. Film producers assumed that in this way, they would satisfy social expectations and
      fulfill their patriotic mission at the same time." The film industry "wanted to avoid dissonance both with the
      popular vision of cultural history that was disseminated in the lower regions and with its official version that
      various, permanent social-cultural institutions guarded, at any cost. Cautious of conflict with the government,
      which was represented in the film industry by censors, producers supported the patriotic education formulated by
      the ideologues of the governing camp with all their might." Still, she adds, "The patriotic declarations in
      magazines and film programs were too often announced in vain, which was the result of poor recognition of
      audiences' real tastes."1


      Madej claims that patriotic declarations were not helpful in the countryside, either, but for a different reason.
      The reintroduction of traveling cinema in the late 1930s "was supposed to promulgate film culture in the remote
      parts of Poland that had not known the invention since the days of the Lumière brothers. The rural population
      looked upon its organizers with distrust. They considered 'film people' everyday swindlers and con men, an
      assumption that could have influenced the Catholic clergy's aversion to cinema. However, later—as was written on
      the pages of Film in 1939—'They had a hard time watching the films. They cried and laughed, and in very
      uplifting, patriotic moments a whole row would rise, repeatedly humming the accompaniment to the national melody
      reverberating from the speakers.' This is how the Polish countryside reacted because both the Ukrainians living
      in the east and the Germans living in Pomerania openly boycotted this campaign, perceiving in it an instrument
      for the Polonization of the ethnically mixed areas."2


      The acclimation to domestic sound film production was difficult but ultimately filmmakers gradually learned to
      use sound to elevate the level of sophistication in their films. The thoughtful employment of sound effects to
      heighten tension, convey a character's mood, or cloak an allegorical tale within the main story is detectable as
      early as the second season of sound. For example, in one scene in Jan Nowina-Przybylski's 1931 Cham (The
      Boor), a gathering of matrons to prepare wool serves three purposes. First, it depicts traditional rural life (in
      set and costumes). Second, it conveys the character Franka's disenchantment with the rural community (evident in
      her facial expressions and voice-over narration). Third, it foreshadows her
      future (through the words of the song that the matrons sing, the turning of a wooden wheel, and the chime of the
      clock that signals the end of the activity). The cinematographer for The Boor was Albert Wywerka, who
      was responsible for the camera in several dozen interwar films, as well. The sound for The Boor and
      other early sound films, however, was recorded in western studios after the films had been made as silents.
    

      As equipment and expertise became available locally in the following years, the employment of sound in sound
      films increased in scope and sophistication. For the 1936 historical film Róża (The Rose), based on the
      novel by Stefan Żeromski, Józef Lejtes and Seweryn Steinwurzel experimented with the camera and the soundtrack to
      create visual poetry. Their fast-moving camera alternates with still photographs of the protagonists;
      compositions are deep; and portraits of violent attacks by revolutionists are enlivened with Chopin's music. In
      one scene, Maria (Lena Zelichowska) plays piano as the facial expressions of the revolutionaries, shown in
      close-ups, reflect their mental preparedness for battle. Maria strikes the piano keys forcefully, looking around
      in anticipation and slight fear. As the camera cuts to a large explosion, the sound of the music and the sound of
      the battlefield become almost indistinguishable. Music, physical force, and the desire for national independence
      become indivisible in Lejtes's rendering of Żeromski's novel.
    

      Issues of historical remembrance arose, and debates over the accuracy and inaccuracy of cinematic representations
      of the nation's past and present, grew with the addition of sound. For example, Antoni Słonimski writes in a 1927
      essay, "An old film may tell us a lot about our recent, and yet already distant, past. There were a couple
      hundred cameramen on the French-German front during the war. They took pictures of authentic clashes with
      bayonets. They filmed people in the most difficult and dangerous conditions, falling, hurt, and dying. They
      caught the entire great crime of war red-handed. It is necessary to paste these pictures into an album of crime.
      It is necessary to send them in a million copies all over the world, so that they can act as witnesses to the
      truth about this tragic era in man's downfall."3 In the three decades preceding the transition to sound, writers and filmmakers had
      placed trust in cinema's honesty, its truthfulness, and its stark, redemptive depictions of reality. It may seem
      ironic that sound film, which advertisers promoted as more realistic than silent film, rained on their hopes.
      Słonimski continues
    

The cinema most easily brings back to life the obliterated, fragile human
      body. In one hundred years, sitting in a comfortable chair, our great-grandson will be able to observe the
      smiling little face of his great-grandmother in her youth and will be able to mock various politicians agitating
      today's Europe for their stupid appearances. Today, if we could watch authentic pictures of Bonaparte on the
      Arcole Bridge for two zlotys, not many people would want to pay gigantic taxes for defense or even ten zlotys to
      see Szarski or Bogusiński in the role of Napoleon in the theater. Think about it: watching our films in the
      future, they will laugh at us. . . . It would be wise, at least, to prohibit the showing of our national films to
      people living in these times.4


      By the early 1930s, he no longer made such claims. Instead, he pleaded with his neighbors to present themselves
      better to the camera, in order to create a better illusion for future generations.
    

      Economic depression, resignation, political changes in Europe, and other factors caused a gradual shift in
      nationalist image making in Poland in the early 1930s. Overtly propagandist films were out; patriotic,
      sentimental historical films were in. An advertisement for The Rose displayed the type of patriotism
      that studios used to draw audiences: "For the oppressed nations, it was the dawn of freedom. Poland jumped to
      action. The peasant, the worker, the intellectual, and the aristocrat stood shoulder to shoulder . . . abandoned
      discord . . . and united under the slogan of Independent Poland!"5


      The anti-Russian historical film, Na Sybir (To Siberia, 1930), played to nationalist fervor, as well. It
      was directed by Henryk Szaro, who also cowrote the screenplay with Anatol Stern and Wacław Sieroszewski. The film
      stars Jadwiga Smosarska and Adam Brodzisz. (They added sound to it in Berlin, where, incidentally, set designer
      Jacek Rotmil was encouraged to visit Poland from Germany for the first time. Rotmil later designed the sets of
      dozens of Polish and Yiddish sound films.) The love story, set in 1905, draws on the advances made in silent film
      to command expressive performances from its actors and to produce signifying images (Barbara Armatys, Leszek
      Armatys, and Wiesław Stradomski point out a scene in which a close-up of an ear indicates eavesdropping), while
      taking advantage of the new sound technology. Brodzisz plays a revolutionary, Ryszard Prawdzic, nicknamed Sęp,
      who goes into hiding in the countryside, where he works as a tutor for a landowner's son and falls in love with
      Rena (Smosarska). Rena follows him back to Warsaw, where both are arrested. When Ryszard goes as a prisoner to
      Siberia, Rena again follows him and organizes their escape.
    

It is easy to disregard the banality of To Siberia and to lose
      oneself in its patriotic fantasy. At one point, the film's narrator turns to two children (purportedly Ryszard's
      offspring) and says, "Kids, remember that thanks to rebels like your father we now have a Poland that is free and
      independent." Armatys, Armatys, and Stradomski claim that the film resembles a cartoon in its creation of Sęp as
      a comically romantic superhero.6 While the film's content refers to the political climate of the year of its production, its
      selective use of sound is particularly emblematic of the early transition period within the industry. The sound
      version of To Siberia uses only diegetic and nondiegetic music: dialogue is indicated through
      intertitles, which are much sparser than was typical in films from previous years. The diegetic "local" songs and
      sound effects include a fiddle playing, a fortune-teller, and her children. They also include weary hymns from
      just outside the hero's cell in the citadel, horses' hooves, the melancholic chants of prisoners with chained
      feet walking through snow in Siberia, and drumbeats (paired with an image of a drum) to indicate the heroine's
      arrival. Sound is used exclusively to indicate breaks in the action and to establish the mood of a scene rather
      than to create meaning or express characters' underlying motivations; it is not used as a replacement for
      intertitles or otherwise to indicate verbal messages. Actors continued to communicate through facial expressions,
      gestures, and visual signifiers. To Siberia explores the contrast between the florid expressiveness of
      silent film and the auditory articulations of sound film.
    

To Siberia was the first film in a cycle titled Płomienne serca (Flaming Hearts). It was
      followed two years later by the less successful Rok 1914 (1914), made by the same producers,
      screenwriters, and director and again starring Smosarska and Brodzisz as a pair of lovers. By the third film,
      though, the series had lost its appeal.
    

      Producers and directors jumped at the opportunity to remind audiences that an independent Poland was not to be
      taken for granted. Recently returned from Joinville in 1931, Ryszard Ordyński made Dziesięciu z Pawiaka
      (The Ten from Pawiak Prison) for Blok-Muza-Film. The screenplay was written by Ferdynand Goetel and based on the
      memoirs of Colonel Jan "Jur" Gorzechowski. Gorzechowski had been the leader of the Foreign Defense Corps during
      and immediately after the events of 1905, when ten members of the PPS were detained for shooting at a group of
      Cossacks. From these memoirs, Ordyński created an archetypical anti-Russian film that used historical events as a
      backdrop for terrorism, patriotism, escapades, and, of course, romance. The
      sound that was added in Berlin was heavily criticized for its propagandizing function. As Armatys, Armatys, and
      Stradomski point out, in one political speech scene, only the words "freedom and independence" are
      accented.7 The fact that
      sound was used to broadcast revolutionary catchwords is perhaps less than surprising. However, the critics'
      negative reaction to these words—especially in light of their lack of disapproval for the same types of display
      in the silent films of the late 1920s—demonstrates an acute sensitivity to audio-visual messages. Critics
      questioned The Ten from Pawiak Prison's propagandizing even as they praised its technical quality and
      innovation. Yet another historical film about the events of 1905, Lejtes's Młody las (The Young Forest,
      1934), received similar treatment—the nationalist ideology expressed in the film was condemned by some critics in
      Poland (though it was praised by others) and at the 1935 Moscow International Film Festival, where it was
      attacked for its ideological slant and falsification of historical events.8


      In these films, the individual, patriotic Pole was responsible for the fate of the nation. Conversely, the
      argument against foreign domination was made at the level of the singular Russian, whose independent actions
      served the greater enemy. Juliusz Gardan's Serce na ulicy (A Heart on the Street, 1931), adapted by
      Stern from a fragment of Stefan Kiedrzyński's novel of the same title, was filmed in Warsaw. Sound was added in
      Berlin. This film took a political stance purportedly against the former Russian regime but actually against the
      Russian people. Nora Ney plays Nadieżda, a destitute Russian woman in Warsaw whose situation the spy Cwietkow,
      played by Kazimierz Junosza-Stępowski, exploits when he hires her to seduce a government minister. The married
      minister falls in love with Nadieżda, who decides to rescue him from a Cwietkow-staged scandal but disrupts his
      marriage. Ney plays a demanding Russian who disrupts the established social order. Negative in its portrayals of
      all things Russian, A Heart on the Street shows that prejudice against the Russian minority was present
      in the nation's cultural production.
    

      Although audiences could choose from among many types of films—including comedies, melodramas, experimental
      films, and mountain films—in the early sound period, one genre that had been popular before the transition was
      absent in the early 1930s. There were no films based on Yiddish literature or original screenplays in Yiddish.
      There were also very few films made about Jewish life and culture in the period. Although it did not renounce
      such films, the Catholic Church in the Piłsudski administration gradually
      created an atmosphere in which filmmakers may not have felt optimistic about creating films, in any language,
      that celebrated Judaism.
    



Souls in Slavery (1930). Archiwum Akt Nowych
      


      Most films did not engage directly with religion but preserved a type of Judeo-Christian secularism that was
      tolerant of Catholic evangelicalism. Pod Twoją obronę (Under Your Protection, 1933) was written by
      Edward Puchalski and Ferdynand Goetel and produced by Marek Libkow's company, Pol-Ton-Film. Its plot concerns a
      fighter pilot, Jan Polaski (Adam Brodzisz), who is paralyzed in an airplane crash. His nursemaid bride-to-be,
      Maryla (Maria Bogda), takes him on a pilgrimage to the holy shrine of Jasna Góra in the town of Częstochowa.
      Here, under the holy icon of the Black Madonna, the religious-national symbol of Poland's Roman Catholic
      heritage, a miracle cures him of his paralysis. Interestingly, the names of the film's directors, Puchalski and
      Lejtes, were switched at the request of officials from the Catholic Church in an attempt to hide the fact that
      Lejtes was Jewish. After finishing the script, Puchalski and Libkow had decided that the former's lack of
      experience in directing sound films would be a detriment. Lejtes, they decided, would be a better choice, but
      they worried about the reaction of the conservative Catholic press and the
      necessity of gaining the approval of its Catholic sponsors. They asked Lejtes to direct the film but to give
      official credit to Puchalski. Lejtes agreed, recognizing that the church and the conservative press would not
      have accepted the film under his official direction.
    

Under Your Protection's simple plot and direct message about the miraculous healing powers of prayer at
      the Catholic shrine were better received than even its authors had expected. The film was an enormous hit among
      audiences, who responded so personally to the images of the miracle at Jasna Góra that some would kneel and pray
      in the theaters' walkways and entrances while watching the final scene of Jan's restoration to health. The film
      set records, playing for 149 days in one of the largest cinemas in Warsaw and selling out at four
      others.9 In fact, it was one
      of the few films to make a profit in the interwar period. After paying their debts, its producers (Zajíček names
      Libkow, Sigałów, and Szafir) were left with more than a half million zlotys.10 One of the reasons for its success may have been the film's
      use of a religious monument as more than a backdrop, a strategy that may have attracted audience members who
      thought that they were giving their money to a church-sponsored film. According to a Wiadomości
      literackie review, the final miracle montage consisted of the following: (1) a shot of Jesus' head; (2)
      overhead shots of the crowd as it moved toward the Black Madonna; (3) a close-up on a trembling Jan; and (4) a
      close-up of Maryla, exalted. In a letter explaining his decision to accept the situation presented to him with
      regard to the film, Lejtes mentioned that Puchalski did not organize the script chronologically but instead from
      end to beginning.11 The
      airplane crash, spy intrigue, and love story were written into the plot so that Jan would go to Jasna Góra for
      his miracle healing.
    

      It was not long before Lejtes was upstaged again. After Lejtes directed the antitsarist melodrama starring Ney
      and Junosza-Stępowski, Córka Generała Pankratowa (Zamach na Skałłona; General Pankratov's
      Daughter, 1934), his assistant director and coproducer for the Kamera production company, Mieczysław
      Znamierowski, agreed to give up his salary in exchange for being credited as director.12 It was not until Lejtes directed his other films of
      the first half of the decade, including Dzikie pola (Wild Fields, 1932) and The Young Forest,
      that critical attention was refocused on the actual director of Under Your Protection.
    

      Puchalski, one of the elders of the film industry (he turned sixty years old in 1934), resigned from Sfinks and
      all but gave up directing in the early 1930s. His decision with Libkow to give
      the directing reins to Lejtes resulted in such success for Puchalski within the industry that he was offered the
      opportunity by a self-declared Christian production company, Rymofilm, to direct a sound film, Przeor
      Kordecki—Obrońca Częstochowy (Abbot Kordecki—Defender of Częstochowa, 1934). Abbot Kordecki further
      romanticizes a legendary moment in the history of Poland by reconstructing the defense of the monastery at Jasna
      Góra that occurred during the Polish-Swedish War (known as the Swedish Deluge) in the mid-seventeenth century.
      Rymofilm enlisted the help of the army, police, government officials, and leaders in the Catholic Church for this
      endeavor.13 The film did not
      achieve critical or box-office success, however, and it actually ended Puchalski's career as director (although
      he remained involved in the film industry in other capacities).
    

      The Society for the Promotion of Film Art (START) and the Avant-Garde
    

      Many young filmmakers scorned the transition to sound film. As they worked together to advance their own concept
      of film culture in the face of the obstacles that the economic depression presented, many found that the biggest
      obstacle was actually the addition of song and dialogue. When placed together, sound and image carried a film's
      message too directly; for them, the idea of linking the mass appeal and reach of motion pictures with abstract
      art and social commentary was extremely attractive. The most active and influential group was the Stowarzyszenie
      Miłośników Filmu Artystycznego START (Society for the Promotion of Film Art START, usually known simply as START)
      was established in Warsaw in 1930. At two hundred to three hundred members, it was the largest of three groups of
      experimental filmmakers active in the 1930s. Other groups that experimented with filmmaking and theory, including
      the L'viv-based Awangarda and a Kraków-based avant-gardist group that gathered around a publication called
      Linia (Line), were unable to match the output of this energetic association.
    

      Although members of START were more active in film theory than in film production before World War II, their
      experiments constituted a significant, if small, film movement. Throughout the six years of the organization's
      existence, its main goal was "the elevation of the level of film culture in Poland," and its main work took the
      form of cultural activism, publishing, and production.14 Its members published extensively on
      their aspirations as students, theorists, and producers of ambitious work. As leftist intellectuals, they strove
      to draw attention to the influence of cinema on both artists and audiences. Rebelling against the nation's early
      film theory, members of the group, which included Antoni Bohdziewicz, Eugeniusz Cękalski, director Aleksander
      Ford, Juliusz Gardan, director Wanda Jakubowska, Tadeusz Kowalski, historian Jerzy Toeplitz, camera operator
      Stansiław Wohl, and director Jerzy Zarzycki, drew on the work of Soviet filmmakers and were less interested in
      making artistic film than in defining and promoting it. Young and energetic, they met regularly beginning in the
      fall of 1929 to view foreign films (they were particularly interested in the Czech, French, and Soviet
      avant-garde), to discuss film, and to theorize about film's role in society. In 1932, they came up with the
      slogan that, though never official, came to define them—Walczmy o film użyteczny, or "Let's fight for
      socially constructive film," which Toeplitz explicated in his 1932 article "The Fight for Socially Constructive
      Film." They engaged in debate over film as art and encouraged audiences to watch experimental film. They often
      held up silent film as superior to dialogue film, contending that silent film was a type of potentially powerful
      but underdeveloped universal language.
    

      Many START members went on to produce films in the 1930s and after World War II, but their early involvement in
      the organization reflected its main goal, which was to increase the awareness of film in society and thereby to
      raise the level of cinema culture in Poland. Although they were activists first, and producers and theorists only
      later, the contributions of START members to the film industry are among the most interesting and significant of
      interwar period cinema and demonstrate a preference for documentary over feature filmmaking. Faithful to their
      ambitions as social activists, their intellectual activity often revolved around major social movements,
      particularly Marxism.
    

      Film historian Leszek Armatys divides into three types the problems that START members formulated on the
      transition from silent to sound film: (1) the stylistic consequences of the transition from silent film; (2) the
      matter of the "100 percent film"; and (3) filmed operettas and revues.15 The group criticized the limited possibilities for
      experimentation with montage in sound film, expressed the view that voices disturbed the well-liked rhythm of
      silent film, and believed that sound, because of problems with microphone placement, made camera movement and
      composition difficult. Slowly, though, they began to accept sound film,
      adapting in particular to operettas, permitting the uses of sound in documentary and animated films, and agreeing
      to find merits in specific film genres.
    

      The most celebrated piece of writing by a member of the group, START president Cękalski's essay "The ABCs of Film
      Recording" (1932), reveals the influences of René Clair, Sergei Eisenstein, and Vsevolod Pudovkin. In it,
      Cękalski advocates retaining as much as possible from the way that silent film communicates (film language) and
      rethinking the relationship between images and sounds. Cękalski develops his idea in a series of six articles
      called "The ABCs of Film Recording," which, as Stanisław Janicki explains in his study of the filmmaker and his
      work, constitute the first Polish textbook on film directing.16 Cękalski writes, "Film as a language is a method of nonverbal
      self-expression. A word is always an equivalent of a certain experience. It is an abbreviation, which must
      express a certain, general, Platonic notion of an object." There are cases when, he claims, "A word has lost its
      association to the object that it represents and, repeatedly, instead of denoting the object it denotes the
      arduous accumulation of unclear and merely indirectly conscious ideas. The freshness of film does not rely upon
      its precision but upon its indirectedness."17


      Cękalski wrote "The ABC's of Film Recording" during a transition that, once begun, could not be stopped. His
      writing demonstrates both a reconciliation with this fact and a desire to move on with the development of a new
      type of cinema. His optimism, however, does not hide the sense of loss associated with the end of the silent
      period:
    

      The first couple of years of practice in sound film have taught directors many elementary truths about the
      application of sound. First, they have determined that silent film taught us to look—sound film cannot become
      equally strong artistically so quickly, when we are only now learning to listen. The eye easily builds a
      framework of time and space in the consciousness, but sound still does not create perspective. Listening to a row
      of voices, we do not know how to differentiate their spatial relationships. Our long-term training in silent film
      allows us to construct in the consciousness a new reality in a subtle, easy way through image association. By
      isolating phenomena (close-ups), by grouping it together with other phenomena (camera placement), by associating
      it with other phenomena (montage), the visual world could be organized—a silent language of images was made. How
      can we approach sound so that we may achieve the same success? How can we organize an aural reality?
    

The connection between the writings of Cękalski and Irzykowski is the emphasis
      on the inadequacy of words as bearers of meaning. Cękalski contends, "Contemporary life is bored with the sterile
      chat of verbalists and willingly turns itself toward things. It craves direct contact with the phenomenon itself.
      Instead of the letters that spell 'cry,' it wants an image of a live, crying human face." To this fundamental
      idea, however, he adds his understanding of his contemporaries' film theories: "It is a new language—perhaps
      somewhat barbaric and visceral, but certainly fresh and full of possibility for further development. The prospect
      of reproducing phenomena in their basic sensory frameworks—in image and sound—the hope of achieving artistic and
      colorful film soon, further enhances the significance of the cultural revolution that is film."18


      Still, Cękalski registered a lengthy complaint about the inspiration, process, and outcome of the transition from
      silent to sound film in "Roads in the Development of Sound Film":
    

      Five years have passed since the moment in which the talking began and the silent film audience raised a cry. The
      film industry accepted the revolution inhospitably in general. Cinema owners took a stand against installing the
      costly projectors, and producers were forced to invest in studios and laboratories. Critics did not know how to
      explain the sudden process of the death of film art. For directors who were locked in acoustically isolated
      ornamentations, the film camera was placed in a heavy, immobile cage, actors were told to speak and sing, and
      long scenes were staged—whole skits, acts, and episodes in one long take. This all happened because the film
      powerhouses across the ocean decided—because it was a business for them—that in order to newly move the common
      herd made nonchalant by silent emotions, there will have to be a real thing. It would have to be a demonstrated
      miracle, one that would be the source of new dollar signs in the budget: that a shadow of a human that moves its
      mouth is also able to generate a real voice. The revolution, like every revolution, started from devastation and
      destruction, only to return to many of the devastated forms a few years later, to resuscitate many eradicated
      aesthetic rules and continue the former artistic line.19


      Cękalski demonstrates anger over two issues: the technical problems associated with the transition and the role
      of the American industry in it. His bitterness stems, most of all, from the lack of high-quality domestic sound
      productions, which was associated with more than the lack of expensive technology in Poland. Polish-language
      sound film production did not earn international recognition, and the period
      of hopeful emigration among actors such as Pola Negri and her colleagues had ended, severing some of the
      country's last links to film production in other countries. Critics in Poland felt that their country had
      disappeared from world cinema. Cinema had gained the ability to speak Polish. As excellent as this was for some
      domestic viewers, they claimed, it was unhelpful for others and useless on the American-dominated international
      film market. The obvious fact that only Poles were interested in Polish-language film dealt a heavily anticipated
      blow to the theorists.
    

      Cękalski's short films included the educational Jak powstaje film (How a Film Is Made, 1930) and ABC
      taśmy filmowej (The ABCs of Film Recording, 1931) as well as Czerwiec (June, 1933), in which
      Cękalski and Wohl constructed a montage of images contrasting the month of June in the city and the countryside.
      He made Budujemy (We Are Building, 1934), which the Warsaw Housing Cooperative commissioned to advertise
      new construction. He also made Hallo, radio (Hello, Radio, 1934) and Uwaga! Komunikat filmowy z
      frontu pracy (Attention! A Film Bulletin from the Work Front, 1934), commissioned by Polish Radio and the
      Institute for Social Affairs, respectively. These films resembled instructional manuals to the director's
      ideology, at once theory and practice. In 1935, Cękalski turned to ethnographic films after receiving a grant
      from the Foundation for National Culture that allowed him to travel to the Polish mountains, where he made
      Serek i chleb: Reportaż podhalański (Cheese and Bread: A Report from the Podhale Region, 1935). He also
      went to London, where he made seven shorts on life in the city. After the disintegration of START in 1935,
      Cękalski turned to feature filmmaking.
    

      Although avant-garde and experimental film production began in Poland in the early 1930s, it is difficult to find
      in these works a regional artistic movement. Experimental filmmakers in Poland proved to be extremely
      independent-minded, sometimes self-contradictory, and united mainly in their quest for independence. In the
      context of European filmmaking in general, very few were pioneering or unique. Still, with minimal funds and a
      small audience, they made a handful of experimental films that reveal their talents and inventiveness.
    

      The most successful of experimental filmmakers were Franciszka and Stefan Themerson. The Themersons were friendly
      with START but remained ideologically independent of the group; they wrote, filmed, and edited their five films without the intervention of others. They refused to define their work as
      a form of political or social activism, and they openly criticized START for its own activism in these
      areas.20


      The Themersons' first film was a three-minute exploration of shadow filmed through glass and transparent tracing
      paper, Apteka (The Pharmacy), made in 1930. Tadeusz Kowalski claims that The Pharmacy was the
      first formalist, or, in his words, "pure," film made in Poland. The Themersons edited shots with such rhythm that
      objects appear to transform themselves into different, seemingly unrelated objects. In this way, they affect the
      viewer directly, on a psychological and emotional level. Years later, the film gained recognition as one of the
      country's first avant-garde motion pictures, but at the time, critics disregarded it. It was the "filmed poetry"
      of the Themersons' second film, a 1931 adaptation of Anatol Stern's avant-garde poem "Europa" with illustrations
      by constructivist artist Mieczysław Szczuka, that achieved the success that they desired. The silent short film,
      of which only some stills survive, opened with a series of photograms followed by a montage of abstract and
      actual photographs that conveyed a sense of urgency and anxiety. It established the Themersons as Poland's major
      creators of nonnarrative film in the interwar period. Stefania Zahorska praised the work as "not an abstract
      film, because there are objects, characters, and fragments of action. Still, all of these elements are stripped
      of their direct, concrete meaning."21


      Inspired by Europa's reception among cutting-edge artists and writers in Poland, the Themersons went on
      to make similar films throughout the 1930s. They saw advertising as a way of financing their films. Drobiazg
      melodyjny (Melodic Trinket, 1934) was an advertisement commissioned for a store that sold trinkets. The
      Institute for Social Affairs, which wanted to encourage workplace safety among electricians, commissioned
      Zwarcie (Short Circuit, 1935). The Themersons used these opportunities to experiment, trying, for
      example, to create a visual equivalent to music. The institute allowed them to screen their commissioned films
      privately and on their own terms. Because of this agreement, such commercial dealings gave the Themersons an
      outlet to advertise their own work. Sponsored projects were the only means by which the filmmakers could afford
      to experiment with nonnarrative form. Describing the financial difficulties of filmmaking in an interview for
      Kurier polski in 1933 (Courier of Poland), Stefan Themerson states, "In the Polish reality, I imagine
      that it is possible for trade films and all other films to exist together perfectly. The main difference between
      them may be genre. Still, they possess common characteristics, as they are
      built on different premises than 'commercial' films. I see, however, one indispensable condition for the
      coexistence of these two types—the avant-garde must resign from financial aspirations in filmmaking."22 (That is, only commercial feature
      film production is to be avoided.)
    

      Although the Themersons appreciated and made tremendous use of their independence, it was through a cooperative
      that they realized their most inspired work. Their Przygody człowieka poczciwego (The Adventures of a
      Kind-Hearted Man, 1937), with musical composition by Stefan Kisielewski, remains a prime example of their
      experimental films. The film's humorous and stinging commentary on the ways that societal fear of difference can
      lead to violence is presented in a visual narrative. Told in an offhand manner by a master cabinetmaker, "There
      will be no hole in heaven if you walk backwards," a young carpenter and his friend take the advice to heart.
      Walking backwards through the town with a wooden wardrobe, the pair draws attention, stares, and eventually
      violent protests by fearful, angry mobs. The film has been referenced in several subsequent works, including
      Roman Polanski's 1958 film school project, Dwaj ludzie z szafą (Two Men and a Wardrobe).
    

      Given Poland's place in Europe, it may be tempting to look for evidence of futurist filmmaking in this period. In
      fact, futurism had a very small following among people involved in cinema. Tadeusz Peiper's writings on cinema
      and poetry are among the few that addressed the medium in terms of futurism: "Cinematic means of expression . . .
      are visibly turning toward creating certain permanent signs to symbolize psychic states." Describing the "slow
      creation of a dictionary of interior struggles," Peiper associates film form with national consciousness. He
      writes, "In Kuenli, a Japanese actor in a moment of the greatest despair smiles broadly, and in a moment
      of great joy sinks into a chair, almost immobile . . . in one moment the secret depths of the soul of an unknown
      nation are discovered."23


      In Kraków, Jalu Kurek edited Linia, a periodical devoted to the poetry of the avant-garde, and produced
      short pieces of avant-garde cinema. His eight-minute OR: Obliczenia rytmiczne (OR: Rhythmic Counting,
      1933) is a futurist experimental series of rhythmically arranged still frames about a chance meeting in a park.
      Kurek uses montage and special effects to give the impression that the characters do not have faces. Composed of
      legs only, his characters portray a world in which the "soul," as Peiper puts it, is not a suitable subject for
      examination. In a Kurier polski article about the experimental film
      scene in Kraków and L'viv, Toeplitz claims that 150 local intellectuals appeared for a joint exhibition of
      Kurek's work and the Themersons' Europa.24


      Janusz Maria Brzeski made two experimental shorts. The first, Przekroje (Sections, 1931), is a montage
      of documentary images intended to demonstrate the chaos and dynamism of urban life. In his next film, the
      geometrical Beton (Concrete, 1933), a carpenter (Kazimierz Podsadecki), is appalled and intimidated by
      the concrete that surrounds him. Similarly, Jerzy Gabryelski explores the subject of modern alienation in his
      antiwar narrative Buty: Symfonia wojny (Boots: A Symphony of War, 1933, completed in Paris) and his
      biting critique of the loss of the individual in the process of industrialization, C.O.P. Stalowa Wola
      (Central Industrial Complex Stalowa Wola, 1938).
    

      Other avant-garde films include Dziś mamy bal (Tonight There's a Dance, 1931; sound added in 1934) by
      Zarzycki and Kowalski and the works of L'viv-based Wacław Radulski, Głuche drogi (Deaf Roads, 1933) and
      Rach-ciah-ciah (1934).25 Radulski was a member of the Awangarda (Avant-garde) group, an association of forty to fifty
      filmmakers, critics, and educators based in L'viv. Like START, Awangarda promoted art film through exhibitions
      and discussion groups, supported research, and produced short films. The organization's leader, Adam Lenkiewicz,
      and Bolesław Lewicki produced ethnographic films. Also in L'viv, the first domestic, full-length, animated sound
      feature, Jan Jarosz's Przygody Puka (Puk; The Adventures of Puk), premiered in 1933.
    

      From the Themersons' examination of the provocative effects of the practiced metaphor to Kurek's and Radulski's
      avant-garde experiments in montage, nonnarrative forms of filmmaking fulfilled many functions in interwar Poland.
      Most of all, they challenged the notion that domestic film lacked ingenuity and quality. Still, avant-garde
      filmmakers' differences of opinion in artistic matters (stemming, perhaps, from the fact that they followed
      foreign futurist and avant-garde movements rather than creating their own) meant that they were never to come
      together as a group.
    

      Documentary and Genre Films
    

      Aleksander Ford's participation in START helped him to launch a career as a director, screenwriter, executive
      producer, and editor of documentary and narrative films. His first short films, including Nad ranem (At
      Dawn, 1929), Tętno polskiego Manchesteru (The Pulse of Polish Manchester, 1930), and Narodziny i życie gazety (The Birth and Life of a Newspaper, 1930), anticipated
      his realist Legion ulicy (The Legion of the Street, 1932), which won its director a readers' choice
      medal from Kino. At Dawn examines the life of a city from dawn to dusk, without sound or intertitles.
      Scenes reminiscent of The Man with a Movie Camera—birth and death, a worker beginning his day and a
      wealthy man returning from a night of revelry, a young boy and a prostitute—may or may not have been inspired by
      Dziga Vertov's famous film, made in the same year as Ford's debut. The Pulse of Polish Manchester
      attempted a reportage of the textile industry, while The Birth and Life of a Newspaper did the same,
      albeit much more effectively, for the newspaper industry. Ford's first full-length film, Mascotte
      (Mascot, 1930), produced by Zorro-Film as a commercial rather than experimental film, was a critical and
      financial failure.
    

      The film that earned wide recognition for Ford was The Legion of the Street. This staged,
      socialist-inspired film examines the lives of newspaper boys and street vendors with minimal use of sound. Ford
      meant it to be a continuation of The Birth and Life of a Newspaper, which had ended with the newspapers
      in the hands of readers. A narrative work made to resemble a documentary, the film concerns a young newspaper boy
      whose mother is confined to a hospital bed. He dreams of owning a bicycle, and in the end, he wins one in a
      bicycle race. Considered revolutionary by several reviewers, it earned international acclaim and helped to
      further a movement toward socially conscious filmmaking. Zahorska, who harshly criticized films that made light
      of poverty, writes of it, "The nicest aspect of this film is that it does not try to be a superfilm or the hit of
      the season, that it is not and does not desire to be monumental or heroic. . . . [T]he idea for the screenplay is
      simply good. Newspaper boys—they are one of the nicest aspects of Warsaw—at least have nerve and a positive
      attitude in spite of the poverty that they symbolize."26 Ford's 1933 film Sabra (Chalucim; The Pioneers) was shot in
      Palestine and drew an international audience. The languages of the film are Polish, Arabic, and "Jewish"
      (presumably Hebrew) as it was shown in Warsaw and New York under its original title and in Tel Aviv as
      Khalutzim (The Pioneers),27 but it is difficult to know with any degree of certainty because the film is unavailable.
    

      Ford's work in production, like Cękalski's, was an extension of his work in theory. He sought to create synthesis
      through active participation in the lives of the subjects of his films. His two narrative films demonstrate a
      commitment to changing viewers' perceptions of society and the process of filmmaking. Still, as his fictional films grew out of documentary, it is in this field that he made
      himself at home. For his 1936 documentary Droga młodych (Mir kumen on; Children Must Laugh), he
      lived for several months in a sanatorium for children suffering from tuberculosis. Funded by the General Jewish
      Labor Union of Lithuania, Poland, and Russia (BUND) and, to a lesser extent, the sanatorium, the film is a
      document of the daily lives of the children battling the disease and a condemnation of the social forces that led
      them there. Interviews with Jewish children reveal the poverty in which they lived before entering the
      sanatorium; scenes of one child eating his toothpaste and another pocketing his breakfast out of fear that he
      will not receive any more food for the day offer insight into the difficult living situation of many of the
      country's minorities. In spite of a happy conclusion—the children on which Ford focuses recover from the
      disease—the film insists that its viewer consider the connection between poverty, ethnicity, and illness.
      Reaction to it suggests that audiences were attracted to the film yet unwilling to accept its social message. The
      government banned it. Writers, including Zahorska and Słonimski, considered the censorship an act of
      discrimination against communism as well as a refusal to acknowledge the friendships established between Jewish
      and Catholic children in the film. Others insisted that communism (and, by implication, the BUND) was
      incompatible with Polish patriotism. The most telling aspect of the controversy over the film, however, is that
      it has continued in a less overt way. It has been recorded in some film histories as fiction rather than
      documentary. Ford subsequently had a difficult time in finding support for his documentaries, as evidenced in his
      inability to gather the necessary support for a Polish-French coproduction about Marie Curie-Skłodowska that he
      wished to make in the late 1930s.
    

      Jolanta Lemann estimates that five hundred documentaries were made between 1927 and 1929.28 While the number of documentaries may
      have declined in the 1930s, the emphasis on using them for educational purposes was as strong as ever. Irena
      Nowak-Zaorska finds that about 30 percent of the 1,080 short films made between 1927 and 1932 "had educational
      value";29 the vast majority
      provided information on the monuments and attractions of a city or region. Bydgoszcz, Gdańsk, Kalisz, Katowice,
      Kazimierz nad Wisłą, Kraków, Krynica, Lublin, Łowicz, Łódź, Opoczno, Płock, Puck, Puławy, Toruń, Vilnius, Warsaw,
      and Włocławek were explored. Other documentaries described processes, such as the production of sugar, salt,
      chocolate, beer, light bulbs, and coins. Montage films of expertly juxtaposed, nonconsecutive still images
      created meaning from the nation's symbols and products. Maksymilian Emmer and
      Jerzy Maliaka's 1935 experimental documentary Polesie (The Polesie Region) was one of the few films that
      emphasized human movement, work, and customs. As Nowak-Zaorska describes it, "The film had the characteristics of
      reportage, and its contents were the life, work, and customs of an inhabitant of the Polesie region with its
      background of lush, wonderful, wild, and inaccessible nature. The directors unfolded all the riches of these
      exotic types of people and beautiful landscapes. They discovered, as though for the first time, the wild charm of
      the distant frontiers of the earth."30 In 1933, Julian Dorosh completed several short ethnographic films about Ukrainian life,
      which Ukrainian schools and associations in the L'viv region projected. His films convinced others, including
      Oleksander Pezanskij, Volodimir Pankiv, and Igor Sorochko, to make their own. Sonia Kulikivna's Soniafilm made at
      least three educational documentaries about Ukrainian and Huculian life in the region in 1930.
    

      Audiences continued to perceive documentary film as a vehicle for nationalist propaganda. In some cases,
      filmmakers claimed simply to have caught nationalist activity on film. Salve Regina is one example. This
      reportage made by Ireneusz Plater-Zyberk in 1935 captured footage of pilgrims as they arrived at a basilica in
      nearby Piekary Śląskie.31
      According to Jan F. Lewandowski, a "patriotic and national demonstration" occurred at the end of the pilgrimage,
      when the provincial governor unveiled a memorial to Piłsudski, who had passed away three months earlier, with a
      commemorative speech.32
      Catholic traditions in the town were also recorded in an ethnographic film made in the early 1930s, Odpust w
      Piekarach Śląskich (A Church Fair in Silesian Piekary).33


      As mentioned, the government granted motion picture theaters a financial incentive in the form of a tax break for
      projecting short films before their feature projections. To a certain extent, this spurred documentary
      filmmaking; however, when makers of short films realized that these incentives did not translate into bigger
      payments for them, their work lagged. Still, in 1931, the government, working through the Polish Telegraph
      Agency, signed agreements with several countries, including Czechoslovakia, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, and
      the United States, to exchange newsreels. The agency made many short documentaries of parades, celebrations, and
      diplomatic events with these exchanges in mind. This situation left private companies to make longer
      documentaries that were more sophisticated. In 1933, producers founded the Union of Producers of Short Films to
      promote the making of short documentary and feature films.
    

One of the greatest disappointments for producers just after the transition to
      sound was the impenetrability of the market for genre films. These films made use of language in ways that
      melodramas and historical films did not, and, it seemed to producers, they offered a false promise to make the
      most of sound film technology. Inspired by films from the West, a few filmmakers tried in vain to create a
      domestic tradition in comedies and musicals. Michał Waszyński's many successes in comedy are not indicative of
      the state of the industry as a whole. Directors Juliusz Gardan, Mieczysław Krawicz, and Jan Nowina-Przybylski did
      not match their achievements in other fields in their comedies. Małgorzata Hendrykowska's statement that
      Krawicz's Ułani, ułani, chłopcy malowani (Uhlans, Uhlans, 1932) is "[o]ne of the stupidest 'army farce'
      comedies of the twenty years between wars" echoes other voices on the subject.34 Despite repeated critical failures, producers still bet on
      the genre.
    

      In comedies, where cultural and linguistic context is vital, rare attempts at international coproductions yielded
      little. In 1933, Universal Pictures hired Waszyński to direct a comedy in Polish, Kocha, lubi, szanuje
      . . . (He Likes, He Loves, He Respects . . . , 1934). Audiences considered it a boring, lackluster production;
      they decided that the Universal Pictures imprimatur did not indicate higher quality. More important, its American
      investors experienced firsthand the difficult task of filmmaking in Poland. Having studied the craft of the genre
      film and sensing audiences' changing tastes, Waszyński and other producers began to make successful comedies and
      melodramas in the second half of the decade. Waszyński capitalized, for example, on Dymsza's well-loved comedic
      routine. Their films include ABC miłości (The ABCs of Love, 1935), Wacuś (1935), Bolek i
      Lolek (Bolek and Lolek, 1936), and Dodek na froncie (Dodek at the Front, 1936). Waszyński also
      learned to adapt from other media: his popular Będzie lepiej (Things Will Get Better, 1936) was based on
      a popular radio program. Audiences praised his films for their lively rhythm, wit, and charm. Like their
      director, whom Anatol Stern remembers as strangely superstitious—he would not pick up a dropped screenplay before
      stepping on it, and he spit into the camera lens before each shoot35—they tapped into the awkward maneuvers that people were
      making in order to control their fates in the face of growing tension in Europe.
    

      Critics were not always kind, however. When disgruntled reviewers linked problems in genre films to problems in
      the nation, as they often did, tempers flared. In such writings, the screen image serves a representative function for the nation, regardless of its export status. It is emblematic of the
      way that writers wanted the nation to represent itself to itself and to others. For example, frustrated after
      seeing Wacuś, Antoni Bohdziewicz asserted, "If it were foreign ludicrousness, it would not be worth
      elaborating on this ludicrousness at all. However, Wacuś is ours; Wacuś fashions himself a
      patriot; Wacuś wants to be lovable, pamperable, caressable, and untouchable. Wacuś wants to
      thrive, complains about money, has artistic ambitions, and mumbles his opinions on Polish art. Wacuś is
      a dangerous chump. It is, at last, time to rip the heads off Wacuś and his family. Whoever does this
      deserves the gratitude of the entire nation."36 What could be so dangerous about a character in a film? Everything, if that character is
      seen as representing the nation to itself and to other nations.
    

      Other comedies included Marta Flanz's Kochaj tylko mnie (Love Only Me, 1935), produced by Leo-Film;
      Nowina-Przybylski's Manewry miłosne (Love Schemes, 1935), written and codirected by Konrad Tom; and
      Tom's and Jan Fethke's rare musical comedy Zapomniana melodia (The Forgotten Melody, 1938). Leon Trystan
      made two successful comedies, Dwa dni w raju (Two Days in Paradise, 1936) and Piętro wyżej (The
      Apartment Above, 1937), both produced by Urania-Film, starring Eugeniusz Bodo and Helena Grossówna. For the first
      time, Polish comedies relied upon the conventions of humor that existed within the country rather than outside
      its borders. And for the first time, they found a welcoming audience.
    

      Musicals fared poorly, with the exception of The Forgotten Melody. While their songs and musical
      compositions remained popular long after the films left the screens and the performances of some of these songs
      by famous cabaret actors often earned praise, the musical genre itself was widely disparaged as a second-rate
      imitation of an American convention. Krawicz's Szpieg w masce (The Masked Spy, 1933) is tedious and
      shamelessly melodramatic, though Julian Tuwim's lyrics to the song "Miłość ci wszystko wybaczy" (Love Forgives
      All), caused a sensation when sung by cabaret star Hanka Ordonówna (Maria Anna/Marysia Pietruszyńska) in the
      film. Musicals were generally financial, as well as critical, failures. Leo-Film's 10% dla mnie (10% for
      Me, 1932) was one example. Despite songs written by Konrad Tom and Emanuel Schlechter, Blok-Muza-Film experienced
      similar bad luck with its 1934 Czy Lucyna to dziewczyna? (Is Lucyna a Girl?). Blok-Muza-Film's
      Każdemu wolno kochać (Anybody Can Love, 1933) had the distinction of being the first talkie made
      entirely in Poland. The typically simplistic plot tells of a variety show
      producer who wants to marry his proprietor's daughter. He gains her parents' approval only after his variety show
      becomes successful. Promotion of the film as a national product inflated the importance of its songs and raised
      its status in the eyes of reviewers, who generally rejected Polish-language musicals.
    

      Filmmakers in Poland also made melodramas according to the conventions of the genre. Generally, these were based
      on contemporary Polish fiction and were concerned with timely issues. Leo-Film's adaptation of Tadeusz
      Dołęga-Mostowicz's novel Prokurator Alicja Horn (Prosecutor Alicja Horn, 1933), stars Smosarska as a
      public prosecutor in love with her former rapist, a night-club manager now accused of being an accomplice to
      murder. She is forced to put aside her personal jealousy in order to conduct his trial for the murder charge.
      Because the author serialized several of his fifteen novels in newspapers before selling them in book form,
      audiences were familiar with Dołęga-Mostowicz's work. Drawing from the way that hungry readers anticipated
      serialized novels, film magazines promoted his films as the best part of a daily routine. Formulaic, of the
      moment, broken into easily adaptable segments, and immensely popular, his books were favorites among producers
      who looked to contemporary novels for their melodramas. For example, in the adaptation Głos pustyni (The
      Voice of the Desert, 1932), two soldiers from Poland fight in the Foreign Legion in North Africa against a cruel
      sheik named Abdullah. One, Milczek (Brodzisz), falls in love with Abdullah's wife, Jemila (Ney), who runs away
      with him. Soon Milczek leaves Jemila for a new love, Angielka (Bogda). Jemila returns to Abdullah to convince him
      to lay an ambush for all whites, resulting in the loss of the sheik's life. The unenthusiastic response to this
      film—Zahorska called it banal and shallow—may have disheartened its director, who had said of his intentions for
      the film that he had wanted to export it to Hollywood. Obviously, like musicals and comedies, adaptations of
      novels were difficult to translate across languages and more nation-specific than directors had anticipated.
    










7
    

      Beyond the Talkies, 1936-39
    

      The Golden Years of the Talkies
    

      THERE WERE MANY COMPLEX PROBLEMS associated with the transition from silent to sound film. In addition, some
      people in the industry expressed concern that the United States' imposition of this change amounted to
      imperialism. Why, then, did domestic filmmakers in Poland make the transition? In what ways did directors and
      producers seek to benefit from it?
    

      For many directors and independent film producers, the transition opened doors to new ways of working toward
      their artistic and social goals. For commercial producers, it offered potential for financial growth. While the
      former saw some positive development in this period thanks to a certain reactionary momentum that gathered during
      the transition, the latter—a group that included almost all producers of mass-marketed feature films—had to wait
      a few years for the fruits of their labor to fully mature. In the first years after the transition to sound, they
      experienced difficulty in gaining access to sound film equipment. They held serious debates over the artistic and
      political consequences of making the transition. In addition, the arrival of American-inspired genre films, the
      formation of START, and experimental films were the subjects of deliberation. As it became more and more obvious
      that the transition was an imposition by western film industries—which gradually appeared to be different from
      the industry in Poland in terms of economy and cultural tradition—film directors, producers, and entrepreneurs
      turned in opposite directions against or for sound film.
    

      Sound film not only silenced the silents but also took away the linguistic diversity in the voices behind them.
      The reason probably has as much to do with economics as with the law of the
      looking glass, though. Determined to make films that appealed to the broadest possible audience, producers came
      to the conclusion at the very beginning of the transition that Polish was the only economically viable language
      for domestic production. This decision effectively halted the production of feature films based on Yiddish texts
      for seven years and ensured that German, Russian, and Lithuanian feature filmmaking became and remained
      difficult. The only exceptions were a few developments in Ukrainian cinema. For example, Julian Dorosh's
      Ukrainian-language color feature film, For the Good and the Beautiful, premiered in the Stylowy cinema
      in January 1939. According to Dobrochna Dabert, ten thousand Ukrainians in L'viv and the provinces saw the film.
      But growing intolerance of the country's ethnic minorities—reaching back to the looking glass—guaranteed the film
      a poor review in Słowo narodowe (National Word), the mouthpiece of the Polish National Democratic
      Party.1


      The increasing sophistication of the films of the late 1930s was partially the result of the changes in
      production that took place gradually during the transition to sound. By the middle of the 1930s, Sfinks was no
      longer producing films; it had made more films any other Polish company but faced ever-increasing competition
      from cinema owners and the smaller production companies with which they worked. Existing studios improved. New
      facilities were built for producing and developing sound films.2 Unions, filmmakers' associations, and government agencies came
      into being to support the separate interests of directors, independent producers, distribution companies, and
      cinema owners. The Ministry of Religions and Public Education, the Ministry of Military Affairs, and the Ministry
      of Foreign Affairs employed filmmakers to make educational and propaganda films. The Ministry of Industry and
      Trade interested itself in film distribution, and the Ministry of the Treasury was constantly involved in the
      taxation dilemmas that repeatedly ensnared the industry. Most influential was the Central Film Agency (CBF),
      which oversaw matters of production, censorship, distribution, taxation, and the regulation of the Central
      Authority of the Film Industry. This organization, led by Ryszard Ordyński, assisted people in obtaining
      equipment and permits. The CBF acted as the official platform for communication between the government and
      private individuals in the film industry. In 1936, another organization was formed under the auspices of the
      central committee of the Union of Polish Film Producers to issue additional permits that had become necessary for
      the production of each film made in Poland. Some government financial
      assistance for domestic film production fell under the auspices of the Foundation for National Culture, which had
      handed out grants for filmmaking from 1928 until 1936.
    

      In effect, the transition to sound promoted the status of directors while lowering that of producers. Crews
      expanded to include soundtrack technicians, songwriters, dialogue specialists, and ever more consultants. Cinema
      owners invested more, and there was a growing need for cooperation among cinema owners, producers, and directors.
      It became more and more difficult for new directors to enter the film industry. Novice directors often had to
      align themselves with older, established filmmakers in order to make their first films. In this way, Stanisława
      Perzanowska teamed up with Mieczysław Krawicz to make Jego wielka miłość (His Great Love, 1936), Bazyli
      Sikiewicz made the critical and box-office failure Tajemnica panny Brinx (Miss Brinx's Secret, 1936)
      with German director Phil Jutzi, and Jerzy Zarzycki joined forces with Aleksander Ford to direct Ludzie
      Wisły (The People of the Vistula, 1938).
    

His Great Love was the invention of screenwriters Alicja and Anatol Stern, who wrote the script with a
      specific actor, Stefan Jaracz, in mind. It was produced by Blok-Muza-Film and starred Jaracz as Konstanty
      "Sufler" Kurczek, an unemployed actor with obsessive dreams about playing the role of his hero, Napoleon
      Bonaparte, one last time. When he meets a starving actress, Ludwika (Lena Zelichowska), they marry and have a
      child. Unhappy as a housewife, Ludwika has an affair with Sufler's former acting partner, Grywicz (Tadeusz
      Olsza). Sufler kills Grywicz while reciting Napoleon's creeds and makes the death look as though it was a
      suicide. Grywicz, as it happens, had been slated for the role of Napoleon in an upcoming production, and Sufler
      is given the role in his place. As a result, he has a great career, but is afflicted by a feeling of being at
      once a small, insignificant man and a legendary iron man. An allusion to Adolf Hitler's rise to power, this
      cautionary tale is one of the few examples of films from the period that mixed unsentimental, nonnationalist
      commentary on the current political situation with psychological drama and still managed to appeal to a broad
      audience.
    

      Historical films thrived in the second half of the decade. In 1936, Józef Lejtes made two films that examined
      eastern European history: The Rose and Barbara Radziwiłłówna, the latter about a love affair
      between the sixteenth-century crown prince Zygmunt August and a young woman from the noble Radziwiłł family of
      present-day Lithuania. As in the piano scene from The Rose (see discussion in chapter 4), Lejtes (with
      screenwriters Anatol Stern and Maria Wielopolska) was daring in his
      interpretation of the motives behind historical events in Barbara Radziwiłłówna. In contrast to the
      traditional tale of her incurable love for the crown prince (she is said to have pronounced her love for Zygmunt
      on her deathbed), Lejtes wanted to portray Barbara Radziwiłłówna as an ambitious adventurer who ensnared the
      popular prince and forced him to marry her. Jadwiga Smosarska stars as Barbara, who in Lejtes's film has lost her
      clothes and is running naked through the forests around Vilnius when she meets Zygmunt (Witold Zacharewicz),
      whose horse she quickly steals. They fall in love and secretly marry, but Zygmunt's mother, Bona (Leokadia
      Pancewiczowa), rejects Barbara. Against his mother's wishes, Zygmunt successfully demands that the nobility
      accept Barbara as his wife and coregent of the throne. Upon hearing the news, Bona poisons the newly married
      Barbara. The dramatization of history melded well with Lejtes's dexterity in directing and Seweryn Steinwurzel's
      skillful close-ups and moving camera. One other aspect set it apart, as well—unlike the vast majority of prewar
      films, Barbara Radziwiłłówna is set in Kraków, the capital of Poland until 1596.3


      As in The Young Forest and Barbara Radziwiłłówna, in Kościuszko pod Racławicami
      (Kościuszko at Racławice, 1938) Lejtes employed professor Adam Stebelski as history consultant. Lejtes set out to
      reconstruct the 1794 Battle of Racławice in what he later termed "a montage seminar."4 He studied paintings by Artur Grottger and Jan
      Matejko depicting the battle. He imagined how to rearrange the characters, to close in on some and move others
      around, in order to create his own vision of the historical event. This revisionist objective proved easier to
      imagine (and probably easier to paint, write, or compose) than to produce because of the highly collaborative
      process of filmmaking. Production problems and misunderstandings undermined Lejtes's work on the film, which did
      not fulfill the director's hopes but was a hit among audiences and critics.
    

      For his final prewar films, Lejtes adapted two contemporary novels: Pola Gojawiczyńska's Dziewczęta z
      Nowolipek (The Girls of Nowolipki, 1937) and Zofia Nałkowska's Granica (The Line, 1938). Lejtes and
      Stanisław Urbanowicz wrote the screenplay for The Girls of Nowolipki in cooperation with Gojawiczyńska,
      purportedly to retain the novel's contemporaneousness and social message while making necessary cuts in its
      plot-driven narrative, but also to market the book from which the film was adapted. The film depicts the
      struggles of four inseparable young friends living in a working-class tenement
      house on Nowolipki Street in Warsaw in the early 1920s. It is a realistic, sensitive study of their bond as well
      as their individual struggles to fulfill their dreams. Bronka (Elżbieta Barszczewska) appeases her father by
      working as a secretary for a man he would have her to marry, while waiting for her true love to return from the
      army. The former rapes her and, in a hurtful gesture, the latter abandons her. Franka (Jadwiga Andrzejewska)
      slowly falls in love with a professor who has hired her as a caretaker and who showers her with such attentions
      as publishing one of her poems in a newspaper. When the professor no longer needs her services, she poisons
      herself in despair. Amelka (Tamara Wiszniewski) becomes pregnant by a young man who refuses to marry her, but she
      dispels her fear of the future by marrying an older admirer. Kwiryna (Hanna Jaraczówna) learns to fend for
      herself after discovering that her parents have been murdered. In addition to its having a talented director,
      camera operator (Steinwurzel), and cast, The Girls of Nowolipki was extraordinary for its realistic way
      of differentiating between situations in which the girls' lives are subject to fate or luck and the areas in
      which they are free to mold their own futures.
    

Barbara Radziwiłłówna, The Girls of Nowolipki, and The Line establish Lejtes as a filmmaker
      with an exceptional ability to create a range of female characters differing in their attitudes and desires but
      united by their complexity and the depth of their personalities. The effort that he poured into creating these
      female characters paid off in audience attendance. The first run of The Girls of Nowolipki lasted a very
      strong ten weeks. The film earned Lejtes a place among those rare filmmakers whose female characters are
      protagonists willing to search for solutions (other than suicide) either within or beyond their reaches in order
      to change their situations. The fact that some create change for the better while others create change for the
      worse is, in Lejtes's films, a consequence of something deep within each them that wants to reign and thrive
      (Barbara), longs for stability and dignity (Kwiryna), seeks out a father figure (Franka), or, in the case of the
      main character in The Line, acts out of desperation.
    

      In The Line, Lena Zelichowska plays Justyna, a penniless, uneducated, and gentle—but desperate—young
      woman who is reunited with her lover from adolescence, Zenon (Jerzy Pichelski). Zenon, however, has since married
      wealthy, genteel Elżbieta (Elżbieta Barszczewska), and soon he is caught between the two women. When Justyna
      becomes pregnant and miscarries, her fear and desperation lead her to extreme acts of violence against Zenon,
      who in turn becomes alienated from himself. He begins to see himself through
      Justyna's eyes, to desire his youthful self and to hate what confronts him when he searches for it. The film's
      well-developed characters make it one of the most admired and emulated films of pre-World War II Poland.
    



The Girls of Nowolipki (1937). Filmoteka Narodowa
      


      Other noteworthy films of the period include two by Juliusz Gardan: a new version of Trędowata (The
      Leper, 1936), based on the novel by Helena Mniszkówna, and Wrzos (Heather, 1938), based on the novel by
      Maria Rodziewiczówna. In Heather, an empty marriage between the frivolous son of a lawyer, Andrzej
      (Franciszek Brodniewicz) and the woman of his father's choosing, Kazia (Stanisława Angel-Engelówna), is openly
      devoid of love, which Andrzej feels only for Celina (Hanna Brzezińska) and Kazia feels only for Stach (Mieczysław
      Cybulski). In time, Andrzej falls in love with his new wife, but his feelings are unrequited. Kazia dies of
      typhus, and the final image of a pale, pained Andrzej holding the heather that reminds him of Kazia reveals his
      regret. Heather lacks the deep social message of certain other films of the decade. However, its shallow
      plot, varied mise-en-scène, studio settings, physically attractive characters
      played by stars, music by Wladysław Szpilman, and satirical commentary on the values of the rural aristocracy as
      well as the Warsaw elite make it a typical example of a mass-marketed film of the late 1930s.
    



The Leper (1936). Filmoteka Narodowa
      


      In 1936, Saul Goskind produced the first Yiddish-language talkie, Al khet (Za grzechy; For the
      Sins), employing Aleksander Marten as director. He established a new production company (a division of Sektor)
      for this purpose and named it Kinor. The action of For the Sins begins during World War I, when Leon (A.
      Morewski), an Austrian officer stationed in a small Galician town, falls in love with a rabbi's daughter, Ester
      (Rokhl Holzer), and fathers her child. While praying "For the sins of father . . ." on the eve of Yom Kippur,
      Leon is called to battle, leaving Ester without a wedding, without a father (he has disowned her because of her
      pregnancy), and eventually without a partner, as Leon is soon killed. In misery, she abandons her infant daughter
      and flees to the United States. Leon's friends, played by popular comedians
      Szymon Dżigan and Israel Szumacher, take the baby with them to Warsaw and leave her in an orphanage. Sixteen
      years later, Ester returns to Poland to find her daughter with the help of Dżigan and Szumacher, who know only
      that a person with the very common name "Kohen" has adopted her. The film ends with reconciliation: during her
      search, Ester falls for a violinist, who turns out to be the boyfriend of her daughter, Rachela (Ruth Turkow),
      and whose neighbor turns out to be Ester's long-lost father. To Goskind's happy surprise, critics praised For
      the Sins at its premiere at the Fama theater. It ran for around four months in its first season and was not
      boycotted. It also had the extra appeal of being exportable to Palestine and the United States.
    

      The success of For the Sins encouraged the Kinor group to make another film in Yiddish. The comedy
      Freylekhe kaptsonim (Weseli biedacy; Jolly Paupers), directed by Leon Jeannot and Zygmunt
      Turkow and starring Ruth Turkow, Dżigan, and Szumacher, opened in 1937 at Fama. The film ran only sixty-two
      minutes, however, so its producers had to fill the standard two-hour program with another film, which in turn
      complicated distribution. In addition, critics claimed that the film was melodramatic, self-deprecating, and
      satirical. Disappointed with the failure of Jolly Paupers, Kinor no longer attempted to make films in
      Yiddish. For the Sins director Marten, however, after directing the Polish-language feature O czym
      marzą kobiety (What Women Want, 1937), formed his own company, Alma-Film, in 1938 with a Yiddish film in
      mind. That film, Un a hejm (Baal tshuve; Bezdomni; The Homeless, 1939), was adapted by Alter
      Kacyzne from a play by Jacob Gordin and was directed by Marten, who also starred opposite Ida
      Kamińska.5


      As the variety, quantity, and quality of these many films demonstrate, the state of domestic filmmaking improved
      dramatically in the final years before World War II. The main reasons for this are advances in the quality of
      equipment and the level of filmmakers' experience. In the decade after the transition to sound, filmmakers
      learned to record sound better, to edit better, to experiment with camera movement and position, and to employ
      dialogue in an interesting way. As the financial situation of the major producers and some cinema owners
      recovered slowly but steadily from the depression of the early 1930s, experienced directors were allowed to shoot
      on location more often, to hire movie stars, to use artificial light liberally, and to be lax on return dates for
      rented equipment. In short, they had greater freedom than in earlier periods.
    



Halka (1937). Filmoteka Narodowa
      


      The transition cost orchestra musicians (between one and fifteen had been employed for most screenings) their
      jobs but opened a new field for songwriters, whom filmmakers employed to write the music and texts for films.
      Composers could count on income (or, at least, promissory notes) and exposure from writing film scores. Most,
      like Szpilman, were accomplished classical musicians. Others, like Władysław Dan (Daniłowski), who composed the
      music or wrote the songs for at least eleven films, including The Twelve Chairs and Dzieje
      grzechu (The Story of Sin, 1933), worked in cabaret. Henryk (Henoch) Kon (For the Sins, The Dybbuk,
      Jolly Paupers) and Izrael Szajewicz specialized in Yiddish music. Theater director Leon Schiller (Janko
      the Musician) and popular orchestra director Szymon Kataszek (The Legion of the Street, A Heart on the
      Street) wrote film scores. The most successful, however, were undoubtedly Henryk Wars (Warszawski) and
      Ludwik Starski. When Wars was the musical director of Syrena Rekord in the 1930s, he wrote the music for around
      four dozen films. Contemporary recordings of his songs, including "Love
      Forgives All" and "Let's Tango," convey the glamour and youthfulness of that era. Although better known as the
      author of a dozen screenplays in the 1930s and many more after World War II, Starski wrote the lyrics for many
      popular film songs, including "Now You Won't Forget Me," "Ah, How Nice," and "Panie Janie," all from The
      Forgotten Melody.
    

      Minority-Majority Relations in the Film Industry
    

      The number of cinemas did not increase much in Poland in the decade after the transition to sound, but exhibition
      did become more political. As in the early days of cinema, exhibitors brought films to people as much as they
      asked people to come to films. Beginning in 1936, the military installed projection equipment in trucks known as
      "cinema-radio cars" in order to project so-called educational films to two or three thousand people at a time.
      The tourism industry practiced traveling exhibition, too. Intercity trains carried special cars so that travelers
      could enjoy films on long trips to and from Warsaw. Around sixty people at a time, then, could watch
      documentaries about their destinations as they traveled south to Kraków and the mountain resort of Zakopane, or
      north to the seaside town of Gdynia.6 The late 1930s also witnessed the return of the traditional traveling cinema, this time
      highlighting domestic production.
    

      While the traveling cinema expanded, so, too, did the number and size of cinemas in the capital. At the heart of
      the established entertainment district, audiences could choose from several cinemas. Some of the cinemas on this
      corner, including Pan, Colosseum (Palais de Glace), and Casino had been in operation since the silent period. Pan
      specialized in comedies, such as Papa się żeni (Papa Is Getting Married, 1936) and The Forgotten
      Melody, which it was the first to project. Colosseum, which was one of the few first-run cinemas operating
      during World War I and was the first to show The Cult of the Body in 1930, hosted the premieres of
      Abbot Kordecki—Defender of Częstochowa and The Line. It was at Casino that The Morality of
      Pani Dulska, The Twelve Chairs, Anybody Can Love, Barbara Radziwiłłówna, and a 1937 adaptation of
      Halka had their premieres. Nearby, on Chmielna Street, Atlantyk and Bałtyk (Palace) drew audiences.
      Turning the corner onto the 100 block of Marszałkowska Street, cinema fans found the Victoria (Apollo),
      Światowid, Stylowy, and Capitol (Nowy).
    

Writer Jerzy S. Majewski describes the "supermodern" Palladium cinema, at
      which the premiere of Ford's 1934 Przebudzenie (Miłość maturzystki; The Awakening) took place.
      Palladium resided in a luxury apartment building on Złota Street. Majewski writes, "Palladium retained its
      original layout. In the hall leading down the representative staircase, the rectangular form reigned. The walls
      of the staircase were of bright alabaster tile. The gallery around the interior was adorned with an ethereal
      banister made from white brass. Hidden sources of light played an important role in the composition."7 Near Rialto on Jasna Street,
      exhibitors used Filharmonia as a cinema when the Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra, which resided there, was not in
      season. Yiddish films premiered at Fama, which was an auditorium in the northern, Yiddish-speaking district of
      Nalewki. Yiddish films also premiered at Sfinks, located in the north-central section of town at 29 Senatorska
      Street in the former building of the Quid Pro Quo cabaret. This location was approximately an equal distance from
      both the central entertainment district and Nalewki.
    

      Varsovians found themselves surrounded by film, film periodicals, advertisements, and tabloid-like magazines. The
      more it invaded their lives, the more they realized its potential for influencing ideological and political
      beliefs. A small group of intellectuals attempted to create educational programs to teach people about film as a
      mechanism for influencing audiences' psychological states. Teachers and guidance counselors, fearing the effect
      of cinema on their students' minds and personalities, established a more influential rating system for young
      viewers. Most significantly, though, the Catholic Church had been and still was interested in cinema's influence
      on its membership. Inspired and aided by the International Catholic Bureau of Cinema (OCIC), churches in Poland
      set up their own cinemas in parish auditoriums in the 1930s. The largest parish cinema, Roma, was located in the
      Pope Pius XI House of Catholic Missions on Nowogrodzka Street just east of Marszałkowska Street and south of
      Jerozolimskie Avenue. Roma exhibitors showed feature films, documentaries, and short films about religion,
      although the number of overtly Catholic, church-funded, full-length feature films was limited. The OCIC also
      encouraged Catholics to produce films that advanced church doctrine in subtle ways, such as films with characters
      and plots that promoted traditional Catholic values. Its success in this area was limited. The only popular film
      associated with the church in the interwar period was Under Your Protection. Still, Mariusz Guzek claims
      that in the mid- to late 1930s, "people were looking for nationalist, patriotic, or religious merit above all." Catholic film screenings took place in Bydgoszcz, where films such as Julien
      Duvivier's French silent La Vie miraculeuse de Thérèse Martin (1929) and B. Simon's Le Miracle de
      Lourdes (1926) were organized in a local church over the course of three months in 1934.8


      As Europe drew closer to war, the intensity of accusations against members of ethnic, religious, and political
      organizations grew as well. Antoni Słonimski, whose essays divulged the antiminority prejudice inherent in many
      celebrations of the Polish nation, had been lamenting the film industry's participation in nationalism for some
      time. In 1929, he wrote, "Poznań is a 100 percent Polish city. There is nothing there for me. With equal 100
      percent Polishness, they are advertising the new film Sinful Love. Large, black numbers announce that
      this Sfinks production is 100 percent Polish. Would the number be worth haggling over? I counted the Finkelsteins
      alone in this film, just at a glance, at 50 percent."9


      Within a couple of years, Słonimski's voice had grown louder. In a later essay, he berated audiences and
      exhibitors for showing signs of ethnic discrimination: "It is trendy to call for the demolition of cinemas that
      show German films. Like everything, they have botched this one. Orthodox ladies and gentlemen should go to the
      adorable film Under the Roofs of Paris and demolish half of it, because this picture is one-half French
      and one-half German." Still, he continues, "Do German, French, or American films exist at all? German actors play
      in American films, and American directors make French films; Brigitte Helm plays with Kiepura, and Betty Amann
      with Samborski." Finally, he commented on accusations of a Jewish monopoly in the U.S. film industry made in the
      U.S. press by pointing out that many domestic producers were both Jewish and nation-serving Poles: "And the
      capital? All of the film production in the world relies predominately on Jewish capital. This is a trifle! We
      have it better in Poland. . . . Long live Lejtes, Szaro, Gardan, Szebeko, Stern, Lipkow, Waszyński, and
      Finkelstein! We will not give away what is ours!"10


      Exactly what did it mean, then, to look for nationalist, patriotic, or religious merit in films, as audiences,
      exhibitors, and the government so often did? While nationalism, patriotism, and Catholic religiosity overlap in
      this period, they represent three distinct discourses on Polishness. A producer of mass culture had to pay strict
      attention to nuance and context when using these terms. In describing Zygmunt Chamiec's failed "adventure in
      cinema," Ryszard Miazek looked at the state of Polish nationalism in 1936. After years spent as director of the national radio station, Polskie Radio, Chamiec founded a film production and
      distribution company, Polska Spółka Filmowa, bought from Film-Vog, which succeeded in making only one film,
      Płomienne serca (Flaming Hearts, 1937).
    

      According to Miazek, Chamiec's encounters with public opinion were fraught with concerns that he intended to
      include German films in his distribution department's repertoire. He launched a campaign to alleviate the tension
      on the pages of Wiadomości filmowe, in which he featured the company's symbol—an eagle—and the motto
      "Our main goal is to do what is best for cinema owners." He hired Romuald Gantkowski, whose government
      connections and active membership in the Catholic Church made his allegiances seem clear. (Miazek claims that
      Gantkowski's former position as artistic director of Film-Vog ended when, "due to the large percentage of German
      capital, the company could not begin to function legally.") Gantkowski declared his intention to use film as a
      means of propaganda for "independence," even though the nation had gained political independence nineteen years
      earlier.
    

Flaming Hearts, too, struck this same chord by highlighting the role of the army in national life.
      Reviews of the film, according to Miazek, varied. The nationalist Prosto z mostu (Straight from the
      Bridge) and Wiadomości filmowe praised the propagandistic elements of the film and its director,
      respectively, while Stefania Zahorska, writing in Wiadomości literackie, claimed that the film had
      "nothing in common with the nation, the state, the army, or even with the school for cadets." The far-right daily
      ABC carried a scandalous article titled "How Jews Fight a Polish Film about the Polish Army," which
      appeared just before the film's premiere. Although the article attacked Jewish cinema owners, it hurt the
      standing of Chamiec and led to the downfall of his company. In his analysis of the situation, Miazek claims that
      while the Polish government was starting to support national filmmaking, the film industry "had many subjective
      motives. It seems as though it did not prove that it understood the real atmosphere in society. . . . Respect,
      and even love, for the military did not translate into enthusiasm for a government that uses film for its own
      propaganda."11


      Totalitarian anti-Jewish groups in Poland claimed that Jews held too much power in the film industry. For
      example, the Association for the Development of Polish Film in 1938 called for an Aryan film industry and set out
      to keep Jewish directors and producers from their work. While not widely supported, the group did manage to stall
      the premieres of a few films, including Eugeniusz Cękalski's ambitious
      production Strachy (The Ghosts, 1938). Jolanta Lemann-Zajíček writes that the association "attempted to
      educate a new cadre [of people in the film industry] without the influence of 'ambiguous Talmudic elements.' It
      was brought under the patronage of the Polish Young Men's Christian Association, with the cooperation of the Film
      Club of the Polish Union of International Relations 'Liga,' a film course. The program was sloppily organized.
      Many of its lecturers lacked qualifications. They often neglected their obligations as well, which quickly caused
      the ambiguous venture to cease to exist."12




        An advertisement for The Ghosts (1938). Filmoteka Narodowa
      


      Adolf Hitler's rise to power in Germany and its reverberations in Poland were constantly on the minds of people
      in the film industry in the late 1930s. Although cinema owners had never ceased projecting Yiddish-language films
      from the United States, they feared anti-Jewish boycotts of domestic films in Yiddish and did not support the
      effort, making the financing of such films difficult. Producers responded with equal circumspection. Natan Gross
      in Jewish Film in Poland best explains the reason for their caution. Gross describes the business
      practices of the company Sektor, owned by Izak and Saul Goskind (Adolf Forbert
      and Jerzy Bock also held a 30 percent share), which opened in 1932 as a laboratory for adding Polish subtitles to
      foreign films. Gross writes, "After Hitler came to power in Germany, slogans of the 'Don't-buy-from-Jews' type
      and signs stating 'Christian firm' began to appear in store windows in ever greater numbers in Poland. It is
      understandable that the situation was felt on the film market as well. . . . Sektor now had to fight to prove
      that it was better and less expensive than other companies and that it was ready to fulfill any wish of any
      producer. One of Sektor's most essential assets was its mobile sound camera, Neo Vox, the only one of its kind in
      Poland. In time, this camera became a defense against the countless anti-Semitic firms demanding the production
      of films by Aryans only."13
      In the atmosphere described by Gross—and in countless other historical accounts of Warsaw and other large cities
      throughout Poland—Jewish owners of companies had to think carefully about their choices. They had to keep in mind
      the sobering possibility that the government could cease to offer legal protection for their businesses at any
      time. Instead of floundering under this pressure, two companies, Sektor and Green-Film, flourished. As Gross
      points out, directors wishing to rent a mobile camera had to and did turn to Sektor, which took care as well to
      retain its exclusive contracts with such large agencies as the Polish Telegraph Agency.
    

      Not surprisingly, German-Polish film industry relations grew ever more tumultuous as the war crept closer. A 1936
      coproduction by Paul Wegener and Stanisław Wasylewski, August Mocny (August der Starke; King
      August the Strong), was made in two versions: a German version with a German cast and a Polish version with a
      Polish cast, presumably to soften criticism of the cooperation. In 1937, government representatives from Poland
      and Germany signed an updated contract for film trade. It stated that distribution companies in Germany would be
      allowed to send no more than fifty films for exhibition on screens in Poland, but it did not establish the number
      of films from Poland that would be allowed on screens in Germany. In the year that followed, thirty-five German
      films were sent to cinemas in Poland, but not a single Polish film was sent to Germany.
    

      In addition, German racial policy prompted many Jews in the film industry to leave Germany after 1933. Director
      Aleksander Marten (Marek Tennenbaum), for example, left Germany in the mid-1930s for the ostensibly safer Poland.
      Poland, however, was not without its own manifestations of racial
      discrimination. Slogans and signs on store windows called for a boycott of Jewish goods and services. Acts of
      violence against Jews were on the rise throughout the country. Years of economic crisis and painful nation
      building marked by ideological battles had heightened insecurity and fueled prejudice. Why did they come, then?
      The brighter picture of interreligious relations portrayed in domestic films may have been one reason. In fact,
      it would be hard to find a single overtly anti-Jewish scene among all the feature films produced in the interwar
      period (although other minorities, particularly Russians, often fell victim to negative stereotyping). The screen
      image, it seems, continued to reflect only those aspects of the nation of which its filmmakers and audiences were
      proud.
    

      Heated and even violent confrontations between speakers of different languages were an unpleasant fact of cinema
      in Poland. Urszula Biel briefly describes anti-Jewish demonstrations that took place in Silesia between 1934,
      when some people (Biel refers to them as "Hitler's Silesian followers") violently demanded the immediate end of a
      screening of Life of the Jews in Palestine at the Capitol cinema in Katowice. Violence erupted again in
      1937, when people interrupted a screening of The Wedding Vow by throwing capsules of a stinking black
      liquid into the auditorium.14 Arguments continued in the disputed regions of the former Kingdom of Prussia, as well. In
      these conflicts, debate over the language of cinema only partially masked ethnic tensions that concerned more
      than the proper way to project intertitles. Language issues were real: with each act of Germanization,
      Russification, and Polonization, the responsible parties essentially locked out one group or another from the
      motion picture theaters. Calls for linguistic harmony, however, did little to hide the real effects of their
      efforts, which were to make cinema the domain of one ethnic group over all others. As in Karol Irzykowski's
      metaphor of the sword and the stone, cinema revealed language as the sword that makes it easy to ignore the blow.
    

      The stress that the film industry felt when making the decision to produce and exhibit the first domestic Yiddish
      sound film demonstrates two separate, but only seemingly unrelated, conditions. These were the swelling fear of
      discrimination against Jews and the control that cinema owners held over domestic production. Much had changed in
      majority-minority relations and in the film industry during the seven-year break in production of films based on
      Yiddish texts. It is clear for the aforementioned reasons that the first
      Yiddish sound film would not take up matters of interest exclusively to Jews, but there remained the question
      whether assimilationist non-Jewish audiences would look harshly on a film in a language spoken only by Jews.
    

      It is important to remember that during the seven-year break in domestic production of Yiddish-language films,
      cinema owners had taken control of production and that their first concern was filling seats. While most
      producers had no choice but to accept this situation, Saul Goskind and Joseph Green (Józef Grinberg), the first
      producers of Yiddish sound film in Poland, chose to bypass the cinema owners in order to have more control over
      their work. Goskind recognized that owners of motion picture theaters were not opposed to Yiddish films in
      principle, as they had readily shown silent films based on Yiddish texts before the transition to sound. Most did
      not reject Yiddish film, but gave financial support to those domestic films that they thought could draw the
      largest number of viewers. When making For the Sins, Goskind assumed rightly that it would be shown in
      neighborhood cinemas. He convinced the owners of Fama, a second-tier cinema in a predominantly Jewish district of
      Warsaw, to take a chance on his film. In contrast, when he tried to exhibit it at Warsaw supercinemas, owners,
      accustomed to exercising almost total control over production and advertising, unanimously declined. Rising
      numbers of attacks on Jews and boycotts furthered their disinclination to exhibit the film. According to J.
      Hoberman, Goskind was afraid to attend the premiere of his own film because he feared violence by anti-Jewish
      nationalists. There was no violence, however, and the only tension was a result of the limited seating (five
      hundred seats) in the theater, which meant that the remaining ticket holders had to wait outside for the next
      showing. The film was enormously successful,15 which convinced producers Goskind and Green (now unhindered by the need to seek investment
      from cinema owners) of the financial possibilities for Yiddish film.
    

      Green's Yidl mitn fidl (Judeł gra na skrzypcach; Yiddle with His Fiddle, 1936) premiered
      several months after For the Sins. Green had received a print of the American film Joseph in the
      Land of Egypt (1932) as payment for some dubbing work done in North America. The film was immensely popular
      in Poland, playing for thirty weeks in Warsaw alone. Green poured his profits from Joseph in the Land of
      Egypt into Yiddle with His Fiddle, hiring American Molly Picon to play the title role. Konrad Tom
      and Itzhok Manger provided the screenplay and the song lyrics, respectively, and Jan Nowina-Przybylski codirected
      with Green. In Yiddle with His Fiddle, Picon stars as Itke, a free-spirited young fiddler playing klezmer for coins alongside her homeless, down-on-his-luck father, Ari
      (Symche Fostel). Itke dresses as a boy to alleviate her father's fears of losing her to a husband, but this does
      not alienate Itke from her romantic side; while playing fiddle with two competing traveling klezmorim, Isaac
      (Maks Bożyk) and his son Froim (Leon Liebgold), she falls in love with Froim. Bitter arguments and competition
      between the two father-child pairs finally end as they become a quartet and Itke, confessing her love for Froim,
      reveals that she is a girl. With its catchy klezmer music, images of scenic Kazimierz Dolny, original story, and
      American star, the film was a sensation in Poland.16


      Green-Film's subsequent films included a musical, Der purimshpiler (Błazen purymowy; The Purim
      Player; The Jester, 1937); a melodrama, A brivele der mamen (List do matki; A Short Letter to
      Mother, 1938); and a musical comedy, Mamele (Mateczka; Little Mother, 1938). In The Purim
      Player, directed by Nowina-Przybylski, Zygmunt Turkow stars as a vagabond who takes a job in a small town in
      Galicia just before World War I. A Short Letter to Mother, cowritten by Anatol Stern and directed by
      Leon Trystan, tells the story of a family's emigration to the United States in the same period. In the
      Trystan-directed comedy Little Mother (based on an American stage play by Meyer Schwarz), Picon plays a
      young woman who promises her dying mother that she will take care of her siblings and father after her death.
    

      The conditions for projection of Yiddish sound films in cities and towns outside of Warsaw are not clear.
      Presumably, motion picture theaters on Piotrkowska Street in Łódź and in the Jewish Kazimierz district of Kraków
      should have jumped on the opportunity to project these films to their large Yiddish-speaking populations. In
      shtetls and small towns with only one theater or a traveling cinema, however, it is not clear whether, when, and
      under what circumstances owners decided to show Yiddish films. Without this knowledge, it is impossible to state
      whether speakers of different languages outside of Warsaw supported Yiddish filmmaking.
    

      Mysticism and Linguistic Diversity
    

      Before World War II put an end to the industry in Poland, cinema in the country experienced a brief golden age.
      Most of the films made in the late 1930s are available on video in their original languages and with subtitles.
      Among the variety of subjects treated in these films is the illicit love
      affair, the depths of which its characters are certain not to understand, that leads to powerful physical acts
      such as suicide and murder. There is an assumption in such films that love defies all reason and, therefore,
      cannot be expressed in words. A few filmmakers, however, strove to do exactly this at a time when communication
      of irrational thought was most necessary. This final section examines the films that include elements of mystical
      religious belief in narratives of love and betrayal and that, in evoking an otherworld that beckons when this one
      fails to make sense, are the final indicators of the state of filmmaking in the increasingly tense country.
    

      Spółdzielnia Autorów Filmowych (the Filmmakers' Cooperative), or SAF, was established in the mid-1930s by START
      members Wanda Jakubowska, Aleksander Ford, Eugeniusz Cękalski, and Stanisław Wohl. SAF members wanted to continue
      the tradition of socially constructive filmmaking that many of them had begun in the early 1930s. Beginning in
      1937, the cooperative published the periodical f.a., held film screenings, and gave lectures. It
      produced several short films, including the Themersons' The Adventures of a Kind-Hearted Man and Ford's
      Społem (Together, 1937), as well as the full-length film The Ghosts, written by Janina Cękalska
      and directed by Cękalski and Karol Szołowski. Around the same time, Cękalski and Wohl made the highly acclaimed
      short Trzy etiudy Chopina (Chopin's Three Etudes, 1937).
    

The Ghosts is SAF's only surviving full-length narrative feature. Jakubowska's long-awaited debut,
      Nad Niemnem (On the Niemen River), codirected by Szołowski, was an SAF-affiliated production that was
      never finished. Poet and novelist Jarosław Iwaszkiewicz adapted the film from the novel of the same title by
      Eliza Orzeszkowa. Jakubowska and Szołowski completed On the Niemen River in August 1939, and they
      optimistically set a date in early September for its premiere.
    

      A self-reflexive film, The Ghosts furthered the cooperative's didactic efforts to portray society in a
      realistic manner. Newcomers to directing features, Cękalski and Szołowski, together with camera operators Wohl
      and Adolf Forbert, adapted The Ghosts, with help from the author, from the autobiographical novel of the
      same title by Maria Ukniewska. The Ghosts exemplifies Irzykowski's law of the looking glass. To the
      distress of those who worried about the glorification or even the mere exhibition of the seedy parts of Warsaw,
      the film concerns the lives of two chorus girls in a second-rate theater
      revue, best friends Teresa (Hanka Karwowska) and Linka (Jadwiga Andrzejewska). Teresa is involved with her fellow
      actor Modecki (Eugeniusz Bodo). Less patient than Teresa in love and dangerously sentimental, Linka becomes
      pregnant by the theater director Dwierycz (Jan Kreczmar), who rejects her. Teresa and Linka, who has aborted her
      child, find new work and new friendships—including a traveling magician, Sroboszcz (Jacek Woszczerowicz) and an
      exiled dancer from Russia, Dubienko (Józef Węgrzyn)—in a provincial town. Eventually, Teresa returns to Warsaw to
      work for a different revue, the Golden Curtain, and becomes involved again with Modecki. In the meantime,
      Dwierycz harasses Linka until she commits suicide. In the novel, Teresa, overwrought by her best friend's
      suicide, decides to kill herself as well. The film's directors wanted Teresa to jump from a window, but on the
      demand of censors who wished to replace the suicide with a gentler version of conflict resolution, they had to
      change the ending. At the end of The Ghosts, then, Modecki saves
      Teresa from suicide by asking her to marry him.
    



The Ghosts (1938). Filmoteka Narodowa
      


      Much of the publicity and subsequent controversy surrounding The Ghosts revolved around the producers'
      decision to cast Bodo, Karwowska, and Kreczmar in starring roles. In interviews and publicity materials, the
      careers of Bodo and Karwowska were presented as strikingly similar to those of their characters: Karwowska as the
      struggling dancer, Bodo as the egotistical star who slowly begins to recognize her attributes. With regard to
      Kreczmar, the publicity was less predictable. As Madej remarks, the film premiered at a time of growing
      nationalism and anti-Semitism. As she describes it, the controversy began with a December 1938 article in
      Przegląd powszechny (Popular Review), in which Zdzisław Broncel attacked the filmmakers for changing the
      name of the theater director from Fensterglass (as he is called in the novel) to Dwierycz and for hiring
      Kreczmar, an actor from the Polish theater, to play him. Broncel claimed that the effect of the change was to
      make the film's most abhorrent character Aryan rather than Jewish: "In this way—a method of conscious
      falsification—the Jew is exonerated, and the Pole is held responsible. This matter goes beyond the borders of
      anti-Semitism. It is a scandal, to which Polish society should react and that the censors should not let happen.
      We are becoming convinced that Jews play by the following rules: A Jew may not be shown in a negative light,
      because this is anti-Semitism. A Pole may be a rapist, exploiter, blackmailer, or thief in a film. Then,
      everything is as it should be." As Madej explains, many newspapers adopted Broncel's tone and denounced the
      film—even those that had praised it previously. The headlines read "They Cannot Get Away with It" (Kurier
      łódzki [Łódź Courier]); "Enough of Jewish Films in Polish" (Słowo narodowe); and "Film Falsified"
      (Prosto z mostu). Madej writes, "And so, it finally caught fire. At the beginning of 1939, the further
      distribution of The Ghosts was stopped, even though it was one of the best films of the twenty years
      between the wars."17


      In his SAF-affiliated production The People of the Vistula, Ford portrayed the lives of neglected groups
      in society as he had done in Legion of the Street. Ford and codirector Zarzycki set out to create a
      picture of the lives of the owners of barges along the Vistula River, for whom physical outdoor labor and
      dangerous working conditions were standard. Helena Boguszewska and Jerzy Kornacki adapted the film from their
      novel Wisła (The Vistula), which appeared during the authors' participation in a group of politically
      leftist-progressive writers called Przedmieście (The Outskirts), whose goal
      was to call attention to marginalized social groups. Warsaw cinema owners' fears that audiences would find the
      film too gray, too faithful to the harsh conditions of life on the barges, and too political led to an initial
      boycott. The film opened first in the provinces and only in the off-season premiered in the capital at the Rialto
      motion picture theater. It concerns a barge owner's daughter, Anna (Ina Benita), whose sister's illness leads to
      the loss of the barge and the family's livelihood. Anna is in love with a thief, Aleks (Jerzy Pichelski), who is
      willing to steal from anyone in order to obtain money to marry her. When he is caught stealing from Anna's
      father, he is killed, and Anna is beaten. Anna seeks shelter at the decrepit barge of her neighbor, Matyjaska
      (Stanisława Wysocka), an older, experienced woman whose husband is a bigamist. Together with the depressed
      widower of Anna's sister, they drift on in a hopeless attempt to run from their problems.
    

      It might be fruitful to compare Ford's realism to the mysticism (not to be confused with magical realism) that
      directly informs several films of the late 1930s, including a remake of The Wedding Vow, The Ghosts,
      Michał Waszyński's Der dibuk (Dybuk; The Dybbuk, 1937), and Nowina-Przybylski's Ty, co w
      ostrej świecisz bramie . . . (You, Who on the Pointed Gateway Shine, 1937). Although there is a spiritual
      element to these films, there is a marked difference between them and earlier miracle films, such as Under
      Your Protection. By focusing on a protracted battle with an amorphous supernatural rather than an isolated
      instance of divine intervention, these films have something in common with The People of the Vistula in
      that they depict the insurmountable obstacles to improving one's life as an endless series of attacks by cruel,
      ubiquitous forces. Whether these forces are patriarchy and poverty or supernatural occurrences that lead to a
      loss of one's power and wealth is less relevant than the social message that they all impart: because one's
      tragedies are the result of choices made before one's birth, even the most earnest attempts to control them are
      doomed.
    

      The most-studied Yiddish sound films made in Poland exoticized the Jewish community in Poland by portraying
      mystics and supernatural occurrences rather than issues with which people dealt in daily life. The Yiddish
      talkies of the émigré Green do not fall into this pattern and, as a result, have held minor positions in Yiddish
      film history. Fun, humorous, and warm, they stand in stark contrast to the better-known works of Jewish producers
      who, in the late 1930s, felt the threat of Nazism more directly.
    

The final two films made in Yiddish before World War II study mysticism, the
      traditions surrounding marriage, religious life in the shtetl, and tragic death. In 1937, Leon Forbert and Henryk
      Bojm of Leo-Film remade Forbert's 1924 silent, The Wedding Vow. Bojm wrote the screenplay with dialogue
      by Jeheskal Mosze Neuman, and Henryk Szaro and Zygmunt Turkow codirected. The story concerns a sacred promise
      made by two friends who are expecting children at the same time. The men vow that if the wife of one gives birth
      to a boy and the wife of the other to a girl, the children will be married when they come of age. After the death
      of his friend, the surviving father decides, tragically, to break the vow in order to secure a wealthy wife for
      his son. Unaware of what transpired before their births, the children meet and fall in love. The film's close
      similarity to its silent version (some scenes are the same) disappointed critics and disheartened audiences, who
      chose instead to attend another Yiddish film from 1937 with a similar story of mysticism and arranged marriages,
      The Dybbuk.
    

      Based on the play of the same title by S. Ansky (Shloyme-Zanvl ben Aaron Hacohen Rappoport), The Dybbuk
      tells the story of Lea (Lili Liliana) and Khonen (Leon Liebgold), whose fathers make an ill-fated pact their
      children should be married. Alter Kacyzne, Andrzej Marek, and Anatol Stern wrote the screenplay, while Waszyński,
      fighting concerns that he could not speak Yiddish, directed it. Produced by Feniks, it was filmed in Warsaw and
      Kazimierz Dolny.
    

      Old friends Sender (Moysze Lipman) and Nisn (Gerszon Lemberger), who now live in different shtetls, make a vow
      that if their pregnant wives give birth to children of different sexes, they will be married when they come of
      age. Sender's wife dies in childbirth (her daughter, Lea, survives), and Nisn (whose wife has given birth to a
      boy, Khonen) is killed on his way home. Twenty years later, Nisn's last words, "Sender, remember the vow!" have
      gone unheeded. Sender is preparing to find a wealthy husband for Lea when he unwittingly takes in Khonen as a
      yeshiva student boarder. Lea and Khonen fall in love immediately. Noticing their attraction and worried that
      Khonen shows too much interest in the mystical kabbalah—to the detriment of his studies and his sanity—Sender
      quickly finds a different bridegroom for his daughter. Heartbroken, Khonen does turn to kabbalah to help him with
      his plight. He dies in the process, and his spirit, or dybbuk, enters Lea during her wedding. A tsaddik (Abram
      Morewski), who has been following the events since the original vow, now attempts to intercede, but to no avail.
      In the name of the congregation, the tsaddik excommunicates the dybbuk "from
      all of Israel." He then revokes the excommunication and leaves Lea alone in the synagogue, at which point she
      releases her own soul in order to unite it with that of her love, and dies.
    



The Dybbuk (1937). Filmoteka Narodowa
      


      On the surface, the two stories seem as melodramatic and potentially kitschy as many less popular films of the
      period, but The Wedding Vow and The Dybbuk had something more than fantasy to offer audiences.
      They brought back the mysticism, kabbalah, and metaphysical communication of the Romantic period, the last time
      that an exilic temperament had called for them. The starting point for these films was the assumption that people
      find themselves caught between two cruel worlds—one earthly, systematic, immobile, and learned, the other
      ethereal, uninhibited, moving, and natural. One world found its reflection in novels and painting. The other
      found it in silent film. So much about filmmaking had been standardized with the transition to sound that the
      otherworldliness of silent film—its variable pace, the fact that people of different nationalities could appear
      to understand each other on the silent screen—had been fragmented. These two
      films returned to it by way of the same types of mysticism that had inspired Adam Mickiewicz and infiltrated the
      imaginations of people claiming various identities in Poland.
    

      This does not mean that audiences accepted the sense of unity implied in this ideology. Wanting to expand the
      distinctions between ethnic groups rather than to find common themes in their films, anti-Jewish groups
      criticized the films and the exhibitors who projected them. For example, an editorial writer for Dziennik
      bydgoski expressed outrage when The Wedding Vow was shown privately to a Jewish women's charity
      organization at the Kapitol theater in Bydgoszcz in January 1938: "We are amazed that a Jewish association
      allowed a Pole to provide the auditorium when there is a cinema in Bydgoszcz, 'Adria' on Mostowa Street, which is
      owned by a Jew. In light of this, we are going to have to revise our relationship with the 'Kapitol.'" The
      right-wing Kurier bydgoski canceled paid advertisements for the Kapitol and retracted all of its
      writings on the cinema: "We feel that it is our obligation to inform readers of this in the aim of warning them,
      particularly parents, of a certain danger. It could happen that the Kapitol cinema will project a Jewish
      film during a public screening for a Polish audience. Knowing the destructive, amoral work of Jews, we should
      accept the fact that there is a danger lurking in this, particularly for youth."18


      The tragedy in such accounts was not lost on filmmakers or writers. Recognizing intercultural communication as a
      necessity both within the nation and between nations, intellectuals in Poland had been interested in the concept
      of a universal language for decades. Some wrote of film as a universal language, in part out of desire for a
      nonnational, nonthreatening means of communication with other nations and cultures. A small number of film
      theorists even identified film as a medium for communicating spirituality across religions. This further
      elaboration of the idea of silent film as a universal language was rooted in the circumstances surrounding the
      nation's acquisition of statehood, specifically, the privileging of mystical spirituality over religious custom
      as a means of garnering support for revolutionary movements among people of different religious backgrounds
      during the nineteenth century. Because these theorists saw film as a form of art, they were able to support it
      both as a nonverbal means of universal communication and interreligious spirituality.
    

      For example, in 1927, Leon Brun proposed that Poland adopt a production code based on the one launched by Will
      Hays in the United States: "Cinema, as an art and an industry, already occupies such a prominent place in the life of civilized societies that it is now necessary to confirm the basic
      relationship of the highest secular organizations (the State) and the highest spiritual power (the Church) to it.
      Of course, we do not have in mind any specific state or any specific church, but all states and all religions.
      The problem, put in this way, can be understood by a simple formula: cinema, by its nature, is an aid to the
      State and the Church as it urges society to propagate civil and moral virtues."19 A secular Jewish intellectual who lived in France
      from 1903 until 1919, Brun likely did have in mind all states and all religions in his quest to propagate civil
      and moral values through cinema. Brun and his contemporaries envisioned a film industry that reflected the shared
      values of the various religions in Poland rather than the problematic state that Poland became over the course of
      the interwar period. To do so implied a turn toward "virtue" as defined by Brun—to the shared sense of ritual
      rather than the rituals themselves, to shared beliefs rather than the performance of these beliefs. Moreover, it
      meant a turn toward the shared meanings and sensibilities behind words rather than the vulnerable words
      themselves. Cinema, he felt, had the power to make this turn. Like many intellectuals, he had an acute awareness
      of the negotiation of local, national, international, and universal communication strategies in the nation
      building process.
    

      Through much of the nineteenth century, the Polish language was virtually indistinguishable from the Polish
      nation. Significantly, the writers of the Polish Romantic nationalism movement were less interested in recording
      the reality of life in the partitions than in creating a mystical, melancholic image of their homeland over which
      the nation's people could grieve. The prevalence of mysticism in films produced at the end of the 1930s is
      indicative of the escalating fear for the nation's future. Many Catholics and Jews were anxious about political
      events taking place in Poland and its neighboring countries. For many people, films about mysticism probably
      offered glimpses into an eternal, impractical, and secret otherworld that they craved in the particular
      historical moment. Because these films engaged mystical elements of both Catholicism and Judaism, they were
      accessible to a large number of people. Perhaps more significantly, because these films contained some
      characteristics of silent film that Polish film theory had supported in the 1920s in addition to dialogue, they
      suggested a reconciliation of silent and sound film. For example, during moments of mystical revelation and
      magic, such as the excommunication scene in The Dybbuk or the dream sequence in The Ghosts,
      communication in the form of national language ceases. At these moments, the characters relate to mystical
      otherworlds or tap the inner worlds of their unconscious minds. When the
      yeshiva student speaks in the language of the kabbalah or the magician in The Ghosts refuses to divulge
      his methods, a new medium for communication is revealed—one less specific to the national languages of the
      country but still relevant to the ideals of the nation.
    

      In his 1937 essay "Looking at the World through the Screen," Brun, in asking the film industry to raise its
      production standards, offers an interesting explanation about the power of cinema. He describes cinema as a magic
      potion, a narcotic, an illusion, and a mystery: "In saying that film is, relatively speaking, the best reflection
      of the world, we are thinking not only about the external world—the world of images, gestures, and sounds—but
      also about the internal world—the world of the soul." At the same time, he writes that ambitious films are
      national in character, while "only films without a soul are cosmopolitan."20 At first, this seeming turn toward "national" film—in this
      particular sense of "noncosmpolitan"—by, of all people, the Esperantoist Brun may seem surprising. He was
      probably not promoting nationalist, Polish-language production instead of the types of filmmaking previously
      described in his "all churches and all states" plan for a national production code. Faced with growing
      uncertainty about the meaning and future of the Polish nation and with the advent of Yiddish sound filmmaking in
      Poland, he had to redefine his terms in order to hold onto the ideals for which he and his colleagues had been
      arguing for two decades. For Brun, as for many film theorists writing in Polish before World War II, the "soul"
      that made films national in character—and therefore accepted by the nation as a whole rather than by people of
      certain linguistic and religious backgrounds—communicated in images rather than words. It was this insistence on
      the primacy of image over dialogue that characterized film writing for the decade after the transition from
      silent to sound film. In production, it finds its most coherent expression in the mysticism film. It speaks to
      the dire situation of the industry and the unraveling of the fabric that, in the absence of dialogue, had been
      woven during the first three decades of cinema. With their incomprehensible languages and their inferences that
      authenticity lay in the fictional reflection of an enduring, detached otherworld onto a screen in this one, these
      films offered viewers a new version of the looking glass. The "filter of reality," the cinema made by an industry
      that was about to be devoured, "transforms everything into a specter."21











CONCLUSION
    

      Visual Imagery and Language after World War II
    

      THE FILM INDUSTRY IN POLAND was destroyed completely in World War II. Many members of the cinema community were
      killed in concentration camps, perished in the fighting, or died of natural causes during the war. These include
      Leo Belmont, Ina Benita, Eugeniusz Bodo, Franciszek Brodniewicz, Leon Brun, Tadeusz Dołęga-Mostowicz, Juliusz
      Gardan, Maria Hirszbejn, Karol Irzykowski, Stefan Jaracz, Kazimierz Junosza-Stępowski, Danny Kaden, Szymon
      Kataszek, Andrzej Marek, Aleksander Marten, Zygfryd Mayflauer, Edward Puchalski, Aleksander Reich, Józef Rosen,
      Jacek Rotmil, Leon Schiller, Henryk Szaro, Leon Trystan, and Maria J. Wielopolska. Stanisław Sebel died a few
      months later. Other members of the film community, including Zofia Batycka, Mieczysław Cybulski, Ferdynand
      Goetel, Henryk Kon, Leon Liebgold, Józef Lejtes, Ryszard Ordyński, Jadwiga Smosarska, Seweryn Steinwurzel,
      Franciszka Themerson, Stefan Themerson, Henryk Wars, and Michał Waszyński, emigrated in response to the
      war.1 Many of those who
      survived the war and initially remained in Poland eventually left because of government-sponsored ethnic,
      religious, and political discrimination.
    

      After the war, Film Polski was established under Aleksander Ford as the administrator of the production,
      exhibition, and distribution of all films in the country. In 1948, the Soviet-controlled government established
      the Leon Schiller Film School in Łódź to train a cadre of film specialists. It was a unique experiment, and the
      task of building the school was given to members of the START group and SAF cooperative who had survived the war,
      including Antoni Bohdziewicz, Jerzy Bossak, Ford, Wanda Jakubowska, Jerzy Toeplitz, and Stanisław Wohl. The first
      graduates of the film school included Kazimierz Kutz, Janusz Morgenstern, Andrzej Munk, and Andrzej Wajda, and since the middle of the twentieth century, most major directors in and from
      Poland have studied there. Arguably, though, its most notable alumni have been its cinematographers and camera
      operators. Mieczysław Jahoda, Witold Sobociński, Jerzy Wójcik, and Wiesław Zdort were among the first
      world-renowned cinematographers to study there. In the years that followed, the school trained Paweł Edelman,
      Adam Holender, Sławomir Idziak, Edward Kłosiński, Dariusz Kuc, Zbigniew Lenczewski, Krzysztof Ptak, Zbigniew
      Rybczyński, Piotr Sobociński, and many others. Its dedication to teaching people to look through the camera lens
      continues to grow. For example, Łódź became the home of an annual festival dedicated to the art of
      cinematography, Cameraimage: An International Film Festival of the Art of Cinematography, in 1993. In spite of
      many politically motivated attempts by the government and the by school to erase the country's memory of prewar
      cinema, this cultivation of the art of looking has proven a revered tradition that reaches to the beginning of
      the twenty-first century.
    

      The nation's love affair with the cinematic image shows no sign of withering. Even the most ardent champions of
      the cause of Polish national cinema see their hope in visuality rather than logocentrism, a viewpoint due in no
      small part to a history of censorship. As Wajda, one of the few major figures in postwar filmmaking who has
      refused emigration in order to better support the national industry, believes, "national cinema, which speaks a
      verbal language no outsider would understand, may speak a language of images with such force that even censorship
      could not cope."2 Wajda's own
      films demonstrate that the promotion of national language through cinema need not come at the expense of the
      cinema's visual elements.
    

      Since World War II, Poland's main contributions to world cinema have been its elegant cinematography, studied use
      of universally recognizable visual symbols, and sparse, often cryptic, dialogue. The rendering of humans'
      struggle with material objects exposes the intentions and motivations behind characters' words, and in this
      Polish filmmakers in the country and abroad have excelled. Scenes of psychological terror in Roman Polanski's
      films illustrate the principle that the movement in a well-crafted image will repeat itself endlessly in a
      viewer's mind. Who could forget Carol's (Catherine Deneuve) painful confrontations with the decaying objects in
      her apartment in Repulsion (1965)? Or the can of pickles that rolls across the floor to land at the feet
      of the unflinching William Hosenfeld (Thomas Kretschmann) in The Pianist (2002)? It finds an outlet in
      every era, from the characters' comic efforts to stay afloat in Marek
      Piwowski's satirical Rejs (The Cruise, 1970), through the suggestiveness of the cinema of moral anxiety
      of the late 1970s, and into the twenty-first century. Iwona's (Natalia Rybicka) secret in Ryszard Brylski's
      Żurek (Zhoorek, 2003) is revealed in the delicate, sensual way in which she treads in her mother's
      house. In Andrzej Jakimowski's Zmruż oczy (Squint Your Eyes, 2003) and Robert Gliński's Cześć
      Tereska (Hi, Tessa, 2001), dialogue is secondary to the seductive, sophisticated symbolization of an
      increasingly economically polarized society.
    

      Finally, there are the feature films of Krzysztof Kieślowski, in which every hopeful and fearful motive is bared
      and every captivating thought revealed in liquid images that he gradually pours into the viewer's eyes. His
      ghosts (Bez końca [No End], 1985), reflections on cinema and identity (Przypadek [Blind
      Chance], 1981, and La Double vie de Véronique [The Double Life of Veronique], 1991), association of
      seeing with having (Krótki film o miłości [A Short Film about Love], 1988), and galloping horses
      (Spokój [Calm], 1976, and No End), all adhere to the law of the looking glass. He references it
      in the first segment of Dekalog (The Decalogue, 1988), in which a father tells his young son that what
      might be remembered about a person after death is the peculiar way that the person moved. In another scene in the
      film, the boy peers, one eye covered as if looking through a camera lens, at his father's hopeful, naive lecture
      on universal language. It is a tribute to the lovely early days of cinema, when the image was truth, even when it
      was not.
    










APPENDIX
    

      Select Filmography
    

      1896
    

Widok starego rynku w Poznaniu (A View of the Old Market in Poznań). Unknown.
    

      1897
    

Odjazd na manewry w Polsce (Departure for Maneuvers in Poland). Lux-Sigismond et Comp. Cameraman
      Bolesław Matuszewski.
    

Podróże i polowania w Spale i Białowieży (Travels and Hunting in Spała and Białowieża). Lux-Sigismond et
      Comp. Cameraman Bolesław Matuszewski.
    

Uroczystości i powitania w Warszawie (Celebrations and Receptions in Poland). Lux-Sigismond et Comp.
      Cameraman Bolesław Matuszewski.
    

W kawiarni lwowskiej (In a L'viv Café). Unknown.
    

Zdjęcia operacji (Pictures of an Operation). Lux-Sigismond et Comp. Cameraman Bolesław Matuszewski.
    

      1898
    

Pobyt cara w Spale (The Tsar's Visit to Spała). Lux-Sigismond et Comp. Cameraman Bolesław Matuszewski.
    

Rodzajowe lokalne, warszawskie (Local and Warsaw Scenes of Daily Life). Lux-Sigismond et Comp. Cameraman
      Bolesław Matuszewski.
    

Sceny ludowe w Polsce (Folk Scenes in Poland). Lux-Sigismond et Comp. Cameraman Bolesław Matuszewski.
    

Wyścigi konne w Warszawie (Horse Races in Warsaw). Lux-Sigismond et Comp. Cameraman Bolesław
      Matuszewski.
    

1900
    

Epizody z działalności pogotowia (Ambulance Runs). Pleograf.
    

      1901
    

Pogotowie w Ogrodzie Saskim (An Ambulance in the Saski Gardens). Paweł Puszkin. Cameraman Piotr
      Lebiedziński. (Actual title unknown.)
    

Wyścigi (Races). Pleograf.
    

      1902
    

Dolina Szwajcarska podczas letnich koncertów filharmonii (Swiss Valley [Warsaw] during a Summer
      Concert of the Philharmonic). Pleograf.
    

Na placu św. Aleksandra (On the Grounds of the Alexander Nevsky Cathedral). Pleograf.
    

Pod Ostrą Bramą w Wilnie (Under the Gate of Dawn in Vilnius). Pleograf.
    

Powrót birbanta/Zabawne przygody pana po świątecznych libacjach (The Return of the Merry Fellow).
      Pleograf. Dir. Kazimierz Prószyński.
    

Przygoda dorożkarza (The Adventure of a Carriage Driver). Pleograf. Dir. Kazimierz Prószyński.
    

Roznosiciele "Kuriera warszawskiego" (Kurier warszawski Carriers). Pleograf.
    

Ruch uliczny przed posągiem Mickiewicza (Street Traffic at the Mickiewicz Monument). Pleograf.
    

Ślizgawki w Dolinie Szwajcarskiej (Ice Skating at Swiss Valley [Warsaw]). Pleograf.
    

Ślizgawki w Łazienkach (Ice Skating at Łazienki Park [Warsaw]). Pleograf.
    

Ślizgawki w Ogrodzie Saskim (Ice Skating at the Saski Gardens [Warsaw]). Pleograf.
    

Zaciąganie warty pieszego pułku nr 46 hr. Kirchbacha w Poznaniu (Enlisting Infantry Regiment Number 46
      of Count Kirchbach in Poznań). Unknown.
    

      1903
    

Walkirie (TheValkyries). Pleograf. Dir. Kazimierz Prószyński.
    

      1904
    

Odsłonięcie pomnika Adama Mickiewicza w Lwowie (Unveiling the Adam Mickiewicz Statue in L'viv). Unknown.
    

1907
    

Pogrzeb Stanisława Wyspiańskiego (The Funeral of Stanisław Wyspiański). Cyrk Edison.
    

Różne widoki Krakowa (Various Views of Kraków). Cyrk Edison.
    

      1908
    

Antoś po raz pierwszy w Warszawie (Antoś in Warsaw for the First Time). Mordechaj Towbin and Antoni
      Fertner.
    

Pruska kultura (Prussian Culture). Siła.
    

      1909
    

Rewia automobilów w Krakowie i wyścigi na Górze Mogilańskiej (An Automobile Show in Kraków and Races at
      Mogilańska Hill). Cyrk Edison.
    

Sport saneczkowy w Krakowie (Sledding in Kraków). Cyrk Edison.
    

Uroczystości grunwaldzkie w Krakowie (Grunwald Celebrations in Kraków). Cyrk Edison.
    

      1910
    

Powrót taty (Ballada w 15 odsłonach) (Papa's Return [A Ballad in 15 Acts]). Unknown.
    

Walka żuków (The Battle of the Beetles). Dir. Ladislas Starevich.
    

      1911
    

Antek Klawisz, bohater Powiśla (Antek Klawisz, Hero of the Vistula). Sfinks. Dir. Józef Ostoja-Sulnicki.
    

Ćwiczenia sokolów (Falcons Exercising). Cyrk Edison.
    

Der vilder foter/Okrutny ojciec (The Cruel Father). Siła. Dir. Andrzej Marek.
    

Der vilder mensch/Dziki człowiek (The Wild Man). Unknown.
    

Di shtifmuter/Macocha (The Stepmother). Kosmofilm.
    

Dzieje grzechu (The Story of Sin). Konstanty Jastrzębski. Dir. Antoni Bednarczyk.
    

Dzień kwiatka/Zaręczyny Antosia w dzień kwiatka (Antoś's Wedding Engagement on Flower Day).
      Juliusz Zagrodzki i Ska. Dir. Julian Krzewiński.
    

Hasa di yesome/Chasydka i odstępca (The Chasidic Woman and the Apostate). Siła.
      Dir. Andrzej Marek.
    

Kosz primadonny (The Primadonna's Trashcan). Juliusz Zagrodzki i Ska. Dir. Julian Krzewiński.
    

Meir Ezofowicz. Sfinks. Dir. Józef Ostoja-Sulnicki (and Aleksander Hertz).
    

Ofiara namiętości (A Victim of Passion). Kooperatiwa Artystyczna. Dir. Władysław Paliński.
    

Pogrzeb Kardynała Puzyny (The Funeral of Cardinal Puzyna). Kinofilm (L'viv).
    

Sąd Boży (God's Trial). Kooperatywa Artystyczna. Dir. Stanisław Knake-Zawadzki.
    

Skandal na ulicy Szopena/Skandal małżeński na ulicy Szopena (The Scandal on Chopin Street).
      Juliusz Zagrodzski i Ska. Dir. Julian Krzewiński.
    

Stary Kraków (Old Kraków). Cyrk Edison.
    

Straż pożarna w Krakowie (The Fire Station in Kraków). Cyrk Edison.
    

Zabójca z nędzy/Idiota (The Idiot). Siła. Dir. Abram Kamiński.
    

Zazdrosny konkurent (The Jealous Competitor). Juliusz Zagrodzki i Ska. Dir. Julian Krzewiński.
    

      1912
    

Di fershtoysene/Wydziedziczeni (The Disinherited). Siła. Cameraman Stanisław Sebel.
    

Got, mensch un tayvl/Bóg, człowiek i szatan (God, Man and Devil). Siła. Cameraman Stanisław
      Sebel.
    

Krwawa dola (Bloody Fate). Kooperatywna Artystyczna. Dir. Władysław Paliński.
    

Miłosne przygody panów Z. i J., znanych osobistości w L. (The Amorous Adventures of Messrs. Z. and J.,
      Well-known Personalities in L'viv). Kinofilm L'viv. Dir. Zygmunt Wesołowski.
    

Mirełe Efros. Siła. Dir. Andrzej Marek. Cameraman Stanisław Sebel.
    

Niebezpieczny kochanek (The Dangerous Lover). Konstanty Jastrzębski. Dir. Kazimierz Kamiński.
    

Obłąkany. Dramat w Tworkach (Mad). Marian Fuks. Dir. Marian Fuks.
    

Pietro Caruso. Kooperatywa Artystyczna. Dir. Kazimierz Kamiński.
    

Pomszczona krzywda (An Avenged Injustice). Kinofilm L'viv.
    

Pożar odbenzyniarni w Drohobyczu 21 III 1912 roku (A Gasoline Fire in Drohobycz on March 21, 1912).
      Kinofilm (L'viv).
    

Przesądy/Ofiary przesądów (Prejudices). Sfinks. Dir. Józef Ostoja-Sulnicki.
    

Spodnie jaśnie pana (His Excellency's Pants). Sfinks. Dir. Aleksander Hertz.
    

Uroczystości ślubne ks. Czetwertyńskiej (Princess Czetwertyńska's Wedding). Kinofilm (L'viv).
    

Uroczystość Bożego Ciała we Lwowie (Corpus Christi Celebrations in L'viv). Kinofilm
      (L'viv).
    

Wiec chełmski we Lwowie (A Rally from Chelm in L'viv). Kinofilm (L'viv).
    

Wojewoda/Voivode. Siła. Cameraman Stanisław Sebel.
    

Wzloty hr. Scipio (The Flights of Count Scipio). Kinofilm (L'viv).
    

      1913
    

Antek kombinator (Antek the Manipulator). Juliusz Zagrodzki i Ska.
    

Dem khazons tokhter/Córka kantora (The Cantor's Daughter). Kosmofilm. Dir. Abram Kamiński or H.
      Fiszer.
    

Der unbekanter/Nieznajomy/Miłość i śmierć (The Stranger). Kosmofilm. Dir. Nahum
      Lipowski.
    

Di shikhte/Ubój (The Slaughter). Kosmofilm. Dir. Abram Kamiński.
    

Dramat wieży mariackiej (The Story of the Mariacki Church Tower). Wiktor Biegański. Dir. Wiktor
      Biegański.
    

Gots shtrof/Kara Boża/Przekleństwo losu (God's Punishment). Kosmofilm. Dir. Abram
      Kamiński.
    

Grzech (Sin). Kosmofilm. Cameraman Stanisław Sebel.
    

Halka. Kosmofilm. Cameraman Stanisław Sebel.
    

Hercele meyuhes/Fatalna klątwa (The Fatal Excommunication). Kosmofilm. Cameraman Stanisław
      Sebel.
    

Kościuszko pod Racławicami/Bitwa pod Racławicami (Kościuszko at Racławice). Leopolia L'viv. Dir. Orland.
    

Najmilszy ze złodziei (The Nicest of Thieves). Muza L'viv. Dir. Zygmunt Wesolowski.
    

Obrona Częstochowy (The Defense of Częstochowa). Sokół. Dir. Edward Puchalski.
    

Potępiona. Dramat z życia żydowskiego w trzech częściach (Cursed: A Drama from Jewish Life in Three
      Parts). Made in Vilnius.
    

Przygody pana Antoniego (The Adventures of Anton). Dir. Wiktor Biegański.
    

Shylock von Krakau/Szylok z Krakowa (Shylock from Kraków). Projektions A.G. Union-Film
      (Berlin). Dir. Carl Wilhelm.
    

Wykolejeni/Aszantka/Historia jakich wiele (Human Wrecks or The Led Astray). Sfinks.
      Dir. Kazimierz Kamiński.
    

Zayn vaybs man/Bigamistka (His Wife's Husband or The Bigamist). Kosmofilm. Cameraman Stanisław
      Sebel.
    

Zemsta spoza grobu (Revenge from beyond the Grave). Kosmofilm. Cameraman Stanisław Sebel.
    

1914
    

Ach, te spodnie!/Prasowane róże (Ah, Those Pants!). Sokół. Dir. Edward Puchalski. Bóg
      wojny/Pani Walewska (The God of War). Pathé (France) and Sokół.
    

Di shtifmuter/Macocha (The Stepmother). Kosmofilm. Dir. Abram Kamiński.
    

Fatalna godzina/Doktor Murski (The Fatal Hour). Kosmofilm. Cameraman Stanisław Sebel.
    

Karpaccy górale (Carpathian Mountaineers). Kosmofilm.
    

Męty Warszawy (The Scum of Warsaw). Kosmofilm. Cameraman Stanisław Sebel.
    

Niewolnica zmysłów (The Slave of Sin). Sfinks. Dir. Jan Pawłowski.
    

Słodycz grzechu (The Sweetness of Sin). Sokół. Dir. Edward Puchalski.
    

Tajemnica pokoju nr 100 (The Secret of Room 100). Kosmofilm. Cameraman Stanisław Sebel.
    

Wróg tanga (The Enemy of Tango). Kosmofilm. Cameraman Stanisław Sebel.
    

      1915
    

Di farsztojsene tokhter/Wyklęta córka (The Cursed Daughter). Kosmofilm. Cameraman Stanisław
      Sebel. (This film was probably made in an earlier year.)
    

Skandal w eleganckim świecie (A Scandal in an Elegant World). Sfinks.
    

Szpieg (The Spy). Sfinks.
    

Zaczarowane koło (The Magic Wheel). Sfinks.
    

Żona (The Wife). Sfinks. Dir. Jan Pawłowski.
    

      1916
    

Chcemy męża/Trzy córki na wydaniu/Warszawka (We Want a Husband). Sfinks.
    

Ochrana warszawska i jej tajemnice (The Secrets of the Warsaw Police). Sfinks.
    

Pod jarzmem tyranów/125 lat niewoli Polski/Jeszcze Polska nie zginęła (Under the Yoke of Tyrants).
      Berlin Projektions A.G. Union. Dir. Franz Porten. (German film with a Polish cast.)
    

Studenci (Students). Sfinks.
    

Wściekły rywal (The Angry Rival). Sfinks.
    

Zajn vajbs man/Małżeństwo na rozdrożu (His Wife's Husband or A Marriage on the Rocks or The
      Bigamist). Kosmofilm. (This was either a second version of the 1913 film, Zayn vaybs man, projected
      under several different titles, or a reappearance of the same film.)
    

1917
    

Bestia/Kochanka apasza (The Beast). Sfinks.
    

Carat i jego sługi/W szponach carskich siepaczy (The Tsar and his Servants). Sfinks.
    

Jego ostatni czyn (His Last Deed). Sfinks.
    

Kobieta (The Woman). Sfinks.
    

Tajemnicy Warszawy (Arabella, Pokój nr 13, Tajemnica alei Ujazdowskich) (The Secrets of Warsaw
      [Arabella, Room Number 13, The Secret of Ujazdowski Avenue]). Sfinks.
    

Topiel (The Abyss). Polonia Moskwa. Dir. Wladysław Lenczewski. (It is not clear if this film was a
      Polish or Russian production.)
    

      1918
    

Carska faworyta (The Tsar's Favorite). Sfinks.
    

Melodie duszy (Melodies of the Soul). Sfinks.
    

Mężczyzna (The Man). Sfinks.
    

Rozporek i Ska/Paskarze (The Profiteer). Sfinks. Dir. Konrad Tom.
    

Sezonowa miłość (Seasonal Love). Sfinks.
    

Złote bagno/Jastząb (A Swamp of Gold). Sfinks.
    

      1919
    

Blanc et noir (Black and White). Kinofilm. Dir. Eugeniusz Modzelewski.
    

Carewicz (The Young Tsar). Globus. Dir. Marian Fuks and William Wauer.
    

Kobieta, która widziała śmierć (The Woman Who Saw Death). Biograf Polski. Dir. Władysław Lenczewski.
    

Krysta. Sfinks. Dir. Aleksander Hertz and Danny Kaden.
    

Lokaj (The Servant). Kinofilm. Dir. Eugeniusz Modzelewski.
    

Obchód rocznicy wyzwolenia (A Celebration on the Anniversary of Independence). Sfinks.
    

Obchód 125-lecia powstania Kościuszki (A Celebration on the 125th Anniversary of the Kościuszko
      Uprising). Sfinks.
    

Panna po wojnie (A Maiden after the War). Biograf Polski. Dir. Władysław Lenczewski.
    

Pokaz tanków w Parku Sobieskiego (A Show of Tanks in Sobieski Park). Sfinks.
    

Przestępcy (Criminals). Sfinks.
    

Tamara/Obrońca Lwowa (Defender of L'viv). Powszechne Towarzystwo Filmowe (PETEF). Dir. Nina
      Niovilla.
    

1920
    

Bohaterstwo polskiego skauta (The Heroism of a Polish Boy Scout). Sfinks. Dir. Ryszard Bolesławski.
    

Córka pani X (Mrs. X's Daughter). Sfinks.
    

Czaty (The Guards). Giewontfilm. Dir. Nina Niovilla.
    

Dla Ciebie, Polsko (For You, Poland). Polfilma and CUF. Dir. Antoni Bednarczyk.
    

Jak to było (How It Happened). Sfinks.
    

Konsul Pomeranc (Consul Pomeranc). Powszechne Towarzystwo Filmowe (PETEF). Dir. Konrad Tom.
    

Nie damy ziemi, skąd nasz ród/Męczeństwo ludu górnośląskiego (We Won't Give Up the Land from
      Which Our Nation Came). Polfilma. Dir. Władysław Lenczewski.
    

Powrót (The Return). Sfinks.
    

      1921
    

Car Dymitr Samozwaniec/Dymitr Samozwaniec (The False Dmitri). Polonia-Film Bydgoszcz. Dir. unknown.
    

Cud nad Wisłą (Miracle on the Vistula). Orientfilm. Dir. Ryszard Bolesławski.
    

Dwie urny (Two Ballot Boxes). Orientfilm. Dir. Cezar Rino-Lupa.
    

Idziem do Ciebie, Polsko, matko nasza/Tam, gdzie ojczyzna moja (We Are Coming to Thee, Poland,
      Our Mother). Giewontfilm. Dir. Nina Niovilla.
    

Janko zwycięzca (Janko the Victor). Estefilm Katowice. Dir. Gustaw Cybulski.
    

Krwawa walka na Górnym Śląsku (A Bloody Battle in Upper Silesia). Stella.
    

Krzyk (The Scream). Terra-Polonia. Dir. Zygfryd Mayflauer.
    

Ludzie bez jutra/Sprawa barteniewa/Głośna sprawa/Za rządów carski (People
      without a Tomorrow). Sfinks. (This film was made in 1919 but released in 1921.)
    

Na jasnym brzegu (On the Clear Shore). Ornak. Dir. Edward Puchalski.
    

Obchód 100ej rocznicy śmierci Napoleona (A Celebration on the 100th Anniversary of the Death of
      Napoleon). Sfinks.
    

Pan Twardowski (Mr. Twardowski). Polfilma. Dir. Wiktor Biegański.
    

Przez piekło (Through Hell). Giewontfilm. Dir. Cezar Rino-Lupa.
    

Tajemnice Nalewek (The Mysteries of Nalewki). Falanga. Dir. Franciszek Zyndram-Mucha.
    

Tamtem/Tajemnica Citadeli Warszawskiej (The Secret of the Warsaw Citadel). Lux. Dir. Władysław
      Lenczewski.
    

Tragedia Rosji i jej trzy epoki (The Tragedy of Russia and Its Three Eras). Orientfilm. Dir. Edward
      Puchalski.
    

Uroda życia (The Beauty of Life). Lux. Dir. William Wauer and Eugeniusz Modzelewski. (Made partially in
      Berlin.)
    

We własne sidła (In His Own Trap). Wytwórnia Filmów Narodowych. Dir. Edward
      Puchalski. (Incomplete information.)
    

Za winy brata/Bracia Gromscy (The Gromski Brothers). Terra-Polonia and Estefilm Katowice. Dir.
      Aleksander Reich. (Austrian coproduction.)
    

      1922
    

Chłopi (The Peasants). Ornak. Dir. Eugeniusz Modzelewski.
    

D'Elmoro: Walka o skarby (D'Elmoro: The Fight for the Treasure). Ines Film. Dir. Jan Kucharski.
    

Kizia-mizia (Sweet Kizia). Artfilm. Dir. Henryk Bigoszt.
    

Krzyk w nocy (A Cry in the Night). Artfilm. Dir. Henryk Bigoszt.
    

Mów do mnie jeszcze (Keep Talking to Me). Maria Dąbrowska. Dir. Michał Machwic.
    

Przed sądem (Before the Court). Eol or Eil. Antoni Bednarczyk. (The name of the production company is
      uncertain.)
    

Rok 1863/1863 (The Faithful River). Phos. Dir. Edward Puchalski.
    

Strzał (The Shot). Sfinks. Dir. Danny Kaden and Władysław Lenczewski.
    

Tajemnica medalionu (The Secret of the Medal). Film Narodowy. Dir. Edward Puchalski.
    

Tajemnica przystanku tramwajowego (The Trolley Stop Mystery). Sfinks. Dir. Jan Kucharski.
    

Wszystko się kręci (It's All Spinning). Danny Kaden. Dir. Danny Kaden.
    

Zaraza/Sobowtór ukochanej (The Pest). Vistula-Film. Dir. Aleksander Reich.
    

Za trzy spojrzenia (For Three Glances). Estefilm Katowice. Dir. Eugeniusz Modzelewski.
    

Zazdrość/Tragedia zniesławionej/Tragedia pensjonarki (Jealousy). Kinostudia. Dir.
      Wiktor Biegański.
    

Złote łóżko Gabby/Gabby złote łoże/Gabby'ego złote łóżko (Gabby's Golden Bed).
      Polonia-Film Bydgoszcz. Dir. Maksymilian Hausschild. (Premiered in Bydgoszcz. Little else is known about it.)
    

      1923
    

Awantury miłosne panny D. (The Amorous Exploits of Miss D.). Liana Film. Dir. Tadeusz Chrzanowski. (This
      may be the same film as Bullets That Miss Their Targets.)
    

Bartek zwycięzca (Bartek the Victor). Poznańska Wytwórnia Filmowa. Dir. Edward Puchalski.
    

Bożyszcze/W sidłach uwodziciela (The Idol). Polfilm. Dir. Wiktor Biegański.
    

Karczma na rozdrożu (The Inn at the Crossroads). WID. Dir. Zygmunt Wesołowski.
    

Kule które nie trafiają (Bullets That Miss Their Targets). Liana Film. Dir. Tadeusz Chrzanowski. (This
      may be the same film as The Amorous Exploits of Miss D.)
    

Ludzie mroku (People of the Darkness). Meteor. Dir. Bruno Bredschneider.
    

Marszałek Foch w Polsce i odsłonięcie pomnika ks. Józefa Poniatowskiego (Marshal Foch in Poland and
      Unveiling the Józef Poniatowski Statue). Sfinks.
    

Młodość zwycięża (Youth Prevails). Niovilla-Film. Dir. Nina Niovilla.
    

Niewolnica miłości (The Slave of Love). Sfinks. Dir. Jan Kucharski, Stanisław Szebego and Adam Zagórski.
      (Aleksander Hertz has also been credited as director of this film.)
    

Od kobiety do kobiety (From Woman to Woman). KDN-Film (Kaden-Film). Dir. Danny Kaden.
    

Otchłań pokuty (The Abyss of Repentance). Kinostudia. Dir. Wiktor Biegański.
    

Panienka z bufetu astoria (The Young Lady from the Astoria Cafe). Orientfilm. Dir. unknown.
    

Syn szatana (The Son of Satan). Meteor. Dir. Bruno Bredschneider.
    

Złodziej i dziewczynka (The Thief and the Girl). Zyndram-Studio. Dir. Franciszek Zyndram-Mucha.
    

      1924
    

Atakualpa (The Attack). R.P. Film. Dir. Henryk Bigoszt and Ignacy Miastecki. (This film might not have
      been finished or exhibited.)
    

Kiedy kobieta zdradza męża (An Unfaithful Wife). Warszawskie Biuro Kinematograficzne Feniks. Dir. Konrad
      Tom and Hansott. (This film was based on the novel, The Wife, by Hungarian film theorist Bela Balazs.
      Hansott may have been the name given in the domestic press for a Hungarian film director.)
    

Miłość przez ogień i krew/Miłość przez ogień i śmierć (Love through Fire and Blood). Związek
      Inwalidów Wojennych. Dir. Jan Kucharski.
    

Miodowe miesiące z przeszkodami (The Honeymoon). Prometeus. Dir. Seweryn Romin and Wacław Mierzanowski.
    

O czym się nie mówi (The Unspeakable). Sfinks. Dir. Edward Puchalski.
    

Odrodzona Polska (Poland Reborn). Filmotwórnia Martynowskiego in Poznań. Dir. Zygmunt Wesołowski.
    

Skrzydlaty zwycięzca (The Winged Champion). Aero-Film. Dir. Zygmunt Wesołowski.
    

Śmierć za życia: Symfonia ludzkości (Death for Life: A Symphony of Humanity). Prometeus. Dir. Jan
      Kucharski.
    

Tkies kaf/Ślubowanie (The Wedding Vow). Leo Forbert. Dir. Zygmunt Turkow.
    

1925
    

Iwonka. Film Polski. Dir. Emil Chaberski.
    

Lamedvovnik/Łamed vov/Jeden z 36 (One of the 36). Leo Forbert. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Rywale (Rivals). Efes-Film. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Sanin. Warszawskie Biuro Kinematograficzne Feniks. Dir. Ferdynand Feher and Bolesław Newolin. (This film
      is an Austrian coproduction.)
    

Wampiry Warszawy/Wampiry Warszawy: Tajemnica taksówki nr 1051 (The Vampires of Warsaw).
      Merkurfilm. Dir. Wiktor Biegański.
    

      1926
    

Cyganka Aza/Chata za wsią (Aza the Gypsy). Diana-Film Poznań. Dir. Artur Twardyjewicz.
    

Czerwony błazen (The Red Clown). Leo-Film. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Dla szczęścia kraju (For the Country's Happiness). Depkin.
    

Ku wyżynom (The Legend of St. Stanisław Kostka). Centrofilm. Dir. Kazimierz Czyński.
    

O czym się nie myśli (The Unthinkable). Sfinks. Dir. Edward Puchalski.
    

Trędowata (The Leper). Sfinks. Dir. Edward Puchalski. (Józef Węgrzyn may have codirected this film.)
    

Uroczystości Bożego Ciała w łowiczu (Corpus Christi Celebrations in Łowicz). Depkin.
    

Warszawa (Warsaw). Depkin.
    

Za głosem serca (Following the Heart). Koloryt-Film. Dir. Marian Dederko.
    

      1927
    

Budowa Muzeum Narodowego (Building the National Museum). Wytwórnia Doświadczalna.
    

Bunt krwi i żelaza (Revolt of Blood and Iron). Kolos. Dir. Leon Trystan. Also the short film
      Kochanka Szamoty (Szamot's Lover). Kolos. Dir. Leon Trystan. (These two films were exhibited together as
      one program.)
    

Dzwony wieczorne. Róże i kolce zakazanej miłości (The Evening Bells—Roses and Thorns of Forbidden Love).
      Emes-Film Łódź. Dir. Józef Maszycki.
    

Maraton polski (The Polish Marathon). Klio-Film. Dir. Wiktor Biegański.
    

Martwy węzeł/Człowiek bez rąk/Chińczyk (A Dead Knot). Centrofilm. Dir. Kazimierz Czyński.
    

Mogiła nieznanego żołnierza (The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier). Star-Film. Dir.
      Ryszard Ordyński.
    

Odjazd pierwszego okrętu z emigrantami do Ameryki (Departure of the First Ship of Emigrants to America).
      Wytwórnia Doświadczalna.
    

Orlę (The Little Eagle). Wiktor Biegański. Dir. Wiktor Biegański.
    

Polskie lotnictwo (Polish Aviation). Wytwórnia Doświadczalna.
    

Ryngraf. Centrofilm. Dir. Kazimierz Czyński.
    

Uroczystości obchód 9ej rocznicy niepodległości Polski (Formal Celebrations on the Ninth Anniversary of
      Poland's Independence). Wytwórnia Doświadczalna.
    

Uśmiech losu (A Sign of Good Luck). Sfinks. Dir. Ryszard Ordyński.
    

Uśmiechy życia (The Joys of Life). Poznań Polskie Przedsiębiorstwo Filmowe Popfilm. Dir. Czesław
      Dembiński.
    

Zew morza (The Call of the Sea). Leo-Film. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Ziemia obiecana (The Promised Land). Sfinks. Dir. Aleksander Hertz and Zbigniew Gniazdowski.
    

      1928
    

Bieg kolarski dookoła Polski (A Bicycle Race around Poland). Wytwórnia Doświadczalna.
    

Dzikuska (A Wild Girl). Lux. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Fragmenty z Gdańska (Fragments from Gdańsk). Depkin.
    

Historia radia (The History of Radio). Depkin.
    

Huragan (The Hurricane). Polska Wytwórnia Filmów Historycznych). Dir. Józef Lejtes. (This film
      was an Austrian coproduction.)
    

Jak powstaje samolot (How an Airplane Is Built). Depkin.
    

Komendant (The Commander). Klio-Film. Dir. Henryk Bigoszt.
    

Kropka nad i (The Finishing Touch). Leo-Film. Dir. Juliusz Gardan.
    

Ludzie dzisiejsi (People Today). Sfinks. Dir. Edward Puchalski.
    

Mecz piłki nożnej: Artyści-prasa (A Soccer Game: Artists vs. the Press). Wytwórnia Doświadczalna.
    

Mięczaki (Mollusks). Depkin.
    

Milionowy spadkobierca (An Inheritance Worth a Million). Poznań Polskie Przedsiębiorstwo Filmowe
      Popfilm. Dir. Janusz Warnecki. (This is a short film of 600 meters.)
    

Niewolnicy życia. Za grzechy ojców (Life's Prisoners—For the Sins of the Fathers). Estefilm Katowice.
      Dir. Artur Twardyjewicz.
    

Pająki (Spiders). Depkin.
    

Pan Tadeusz. Star-Film. Dir. Ryszard Ordyński.
    

Próbny lot Warszawa-Moskwa (A Trial Flight from Warsaw to Moscow). Wytwórnia
      Doświadczalna.
    

Przedwiośnie (Before the Spring). Gloria. Henryk Szaro.
    

Przeznaczenie (Destiny). Laborfilm. Dir. Janusz Star.
    

Racjonalna hodowla bydła (Efficient Cattle Husbandry). Depkin.
    

Romans panny Opolskiej (Miss Opolska's Love Affair). Biofilm Polski. Dir. Władysław Lenczewski.
    

Szaleńcy/My Pierwsza Brygada (Daredevils). Diana-Klio-Film. Dir. Leonard Buczkowski. (This film was made
      in Poznań.)
    

Tajemnica starego rodu (The Secrets of an Ancient Lineage). Sfinks. Dir. Zbigniew Gniazdowski.
    

      1929
    

9.25/9.25 Przygoda jednej nocy (9:25). Sola-Film. Dir. Ryszard Biske and Adam Augustynowicz.
    

Człowiek o błękitnej duszy (A Man with a Celestial Soul). Kaden-Studio. Dir. Michał Machwic.
    

Grzeszna miłość (Sinful Love). Sfinks. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz and Zbigniew Gniazdowski.
    

Kobieta która grzechu pragnie (A Woman Desiring Sin). Wiktor Biegański. Dir. Wiktor Biegański.
    

Magdalena. Dworkowski-Film Bydgoszcz and Poznań. Dir. Konstanty Meglicki.
    

Mocny człowiek (A Strong Man). Gloria. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Nad ranem (At Dawn). Dir. Aleksander Ford.
    

Pierwsza miłość Kościuszki (Kościuszko's First Love). Tadeusz Piętowski. Dir. Jerzy Orthon.
    

Pod banderą miłości (Under Love's Banner). Lux. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Policmajster Tagiejew (Police Chief Tagiejew). Leo-Film. Dir. Juliusz Gardan.
    

Ponad śnieg (Beyond the Snow). Klio-Film. Dir. Konstanty Meglicki.
    

Szlakiem hańby (On the Path to Shame). Star-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

Tajemnica skrzynki pocztowej (The Secret of the Mailbox). Polska Agencja Telegraficzna. Dir. Aleksander
      Reich.
    

W lasach polskich/In di poylishe velder (In the Polish Woods). Forbert-Film. Dir. Jonas Turkow.
    

Wycieczka polaków amerykańskich w Warszawie (Polish Americans Visit Warsaw). Wytwórnia Doświadczalna.
    

Z dnia na dzień (From Day to Day). Enha-Film or Dworkowski-Film Bydgoszcz and Poznań. Dir. Józef Lejtes.
      (The actual production company is unknown.)
    

Z ramion w ramiona/Szałas miłości (From Embrace to Embrace). Pegaz-Film.
      Dir. Artur Twardyjewicz.
    

      1930
    

Apteka (The Pharmacy). Dir. Franciszka and Stefan Themerson.
    

Dusze w niewoli (Souls in Slavery). Hel-Studio. Dir. Leon Trystan.
    

Gwiaździsta eskadra (Squadron of the Stars). Klio-Film. Dir. Leonard Buczkowski.
    

Halka. Wir-Film. Dir. Konstanty Meglicki.
    

Igraszki pieniądza (Money Games). Kapefilm and Fotoplat. Dir. Ireneusz Plater-Zyberk.
    

Jak powstaje film (How a Film Is Made). Dir Eugeniusz Cękalski.
    

Janko muzykant (Janko the Musician). Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Ryszard Ordyński.
    

Karuzela życia (The Carousel of Life). Vita-Film. Dir. Bolesław Miciński.
    

Kult ciała/Rapsodia miłości (Cult of the Body). Juliusz Zagrodzki. Dir. Michał Waszyński. (This
      film was an Austrian coproduction.)
    

Mascotte (The Mascot). Zoro-Film. Dir. Aleksander Ford.
    

Moralność pani Dulskiej (The Morality of Pani Dulska). Heros. Dir. Bolesław Newolin.
    

Narodziny i życie gazety (The Birth and Life of a Newspaper). Dir. Aleksander Ford.
    

Na Sybir (To Siberia). Kineton-Sfinks. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Niebezpieczny romans (A Dangerous Love Affair). As-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Sztabskapitan Gubaniew (Captain Gubaniew). Wir-Film. Dir. Tadeusz Chrzanowski.
    

Tętno polskiego Manchesteru (The Pulse of Polish Manchester). Dir. Aleksander Ford.
    

Uroda życia (The Beauty of Life). Leo-Film. Dir. Juliusz Gardan.
    

Wiatr od morza (Wind from the Sea). Vox-Film. Dir. Kazimierz Czyński.
    

      1931
    

ABC taśmy filmowej (The ABCs of Film). Dir. Eugeniusz Cękalski.
    

Cham (The Boor). Rex-Film. Dir. Jan Nowina-Przybylski.
    

Dziesięciu z Pawiaka (The Ten from Pawiak Prison). Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Ryszard Ordyński.
    

Dziś mamy bal (Tonight There's a Dance). Dir. Jerzy Zarzycki and Tadeusz Kowalski. (Sound added in
      1934.)
    

Europa (Europe). Dir. Franciszka and Stefan Themerson.
    

Krwawy wschód (Bloody East). M. Lindenbaum. Dir. Jan Nowina-Przybylski.
    

Panienka z chmur (The Young Lady from the Clouds). Marwin-Film. Dir. Bernard
      Marwiński.
    

Przekroje (Sections). Dir. Janusz Maria Brzeski.
    

Serce na ulicy (A Heart on the Street). Leo-Film. Dir. Juliusz Gardan.
    

Straszna noc (A Terrible Night). Dir. Konstanty Meglicki. (The production company is unknown.)
    

Uwiedziona (A Seduced Woman). Muzyka-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

      1932
    

Bezimienni bohaterowie (Nameless Heroes). B-W-B-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Biała trucizna (White Poison). Sztuka. Dir. Alfred Niemirski.
    

Biały ślad (White Trail). Asterfilm. Dir. Adam Krzeptowski.
    

Dzikie pola (Wild Fields). Sol-Film. Dir. Józef Lejtes.
    

Głos pustyni (The Voice of the Desert). B-W-B-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Księżna łowicka (The Łowicz Princess). Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Janusz Warnecki.
    

Legion ulicy (Legion of the Street). Leo-Film. Dir. Aleksander Ford. (This film won the 1932 Readers'
      Choice Award from Cinema magazine.)
    

Pałac na kółkach/Romantyczna przygoda/Wielka miłość Fioretty (The Circus). Orton. Dir. Ryszard
      Ordyński.
    

Puszcza (The Woods). Ryszard Biske. Dir. Ryszard Biske.
    

Rok 1914 (1914). Kineton-Sfinks. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Rycerze mroku/Wielkomiejski mrok (The Knights of Darkness). Globfilm. Dir. Bruno Bredschneider
      and Stefan Szwarc.
    

Sto metrów miłości (One Hundred Meters of Love). Patria-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Szyb L-23 (Shaft L-23). Klio-Film. Dir. Leonard Buczkowski.
    

Ułani, ułani, chłopcy malowani (Uhlans, Uhlans). Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

      1933
    

10% dla mnie (10% for Me). Leo-Film. Dir. Juliusz Gardan.
    

Beton (Concrete). Dir. Janusz Maria Brzeski.
    

Buty: Symfonia wojny (Boots: A Symphony of War). Dir. Jerzy Gabryelski.
    

Czerwiec (June). Dir. Eugeniusz Cękalski.
    

Dwanaście krzeseł (Twelve Chairs). Rex-Film and Terra Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński and Mac Frič.
    

Dzieje grzechu (The Story of Sin). Sfinks. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Głuche drogi (Deaf Roads). Dir. Wacław Radulski.
    

Jego Ekscelencja Subiekt (His Excellency). Urania-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Każdemu wolno kochać (Anybody Can Love). Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

OR: Obliczenia rytmiczne (OR: Rhythmic Counting). Dir. Jalu Kurek.
    

Ostatnia eskapada (The Last Escapade). Wacław Serafinowicz. Dir. Wacław Serafinowicz.
    

Pod Twoją obronę (Under Your Protection). Pol-Ton-Film. Dir. Edward Puchalski. (Józef Lejtes actually
      directed this film.)
    

Prokurator Alicja Horn (Prosecutor Alicia Horn). Leo-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Przybłęda (The Vagabond). Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Jan Nowina-Przybylski.
    

Przygody Puka/Puk (The Adventures of Puk). Dir. Jan Jarosz.
    

Romeo i Julcia (Romeo and Juliet). Delfilm. Dir. Jan Nowina-Przybylski.
    

Sabra/Chalucim (The Pioneers). Blok-Muza-Film and Sabra-Film. Dir. Aleksander Ford.
    

Szpieg w masce (The Masked Spy). Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

Wyrok życia (Kto winien?) (Life Sentence [Who is Guilty?]). Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Juliusz Gardan.
    

Zabawka (The Toy). Stefan Gulanicki. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

      1934
    

Afera Krystyny/Awanturki jego córki (Krystyna's Scandal). Tadeusz Chrzanowski. Dir. Tadeusz
      Chrzanowski.
    

Budujemy (We Are Building). Dir. Eugeniusz Cękalski.
    

Co mój mąż robi w nocy . . . (What My Husband Does at Night . . .). Rex-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Córka generała Pankratowa (General Pankratov's Daughter). Kamera. Dir. Mieczysław Znamierowski. (Józef
      Lejtes has also been cited as director of this film.)
    

Czarna perła (The Black Pearl). Urania Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Czy Lucyna to dziewczyna? (Is Lucyna a Girl?) Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Juliusz Gardan.
    

Drobiaźg melodyjny (Melodic Trinket). Dir. Franciszka and Stefan Themerson.
    

Hallo, radio (Hello, Radio). Dir. Eugeniusz Cękalski.
    

Hanka/Oczy czarne (Black Eyes). Prafilm. Dir. Jerzy Dal.
    

Kocha, lubi, szanuje (He Loves, He Likes, He Respects). Universal Pictures Corporation. Dir. Michał
      Waszyński. (This was the only film made in Polish in Poland by an American company.)
    

Młody las (The Young Forest). Libkow-Film. Dir. Józef Lejtes.
    

Parada rezerwistów (The Reservists' Parade). Del-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Pieśniarz Warszawy (The Bard of Warsaw). Urania Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Przebudzenie/Miłość maturzystki (The Awakening). Palladium. Dir. Aleksander Ford. (A 1935
      remake of this film was directed by Jan Nowina-Przybylski.)
    

Przeor Kordecki, Obrońca Częstochowy (Abbot Kordecki, Defender of Czestochowa). Rymofilm. Dir. Edward
      Puchalski.
    

Rach-ciah-ciah. Dir. Wacław Radulski.
    

Śluby ułańskie (Uhlan's Pledge). Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

Uwaga! Komunikat filmowy z frontu pracy (Attention! A Film Bulletin from the Work Front). Dir. Eugeniusz
      Cękalski.
    

Zamarłe echo (Dead Echo). Arlux. Dir. Adam Krzepotowski.
    

      1935
    

ABC miłości (The ABCs of Love). Rex-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Antek policmajster (Antek the Police Chief). Kinofilm. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Dwie Joasie (Two Joasias). Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

Dzień wielkiej przygody (The Day of a Great Adventure). Panta Film. Dir. Józef Lejtes.
    

Jaśnie pan szofer (His Excellency Chauffeur). Urania Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Kochaj tylko mnie (Love Only Me). Leo-Film. Dir. Marta Flantz.
    

Manewry miłosne (Love Schemes). Kino-Film. Dir. Jan Nowina-Przybylski and Konrad Tom.
    

Nie miała baba kłopotu (Problems, No Less). Quadra. Dir. Aleksander Ford and Michał Waszyński.
    

Panienka z poste restante (The Young Lady from General Delivery). Stefan Gulanicki. Dir. Jan Nowina-
      Przybylski. (Michał Waszyński has been credited as codirector of this film.)
    

Polesie (The Polesie Region). Dir. Maksymilian Emmer and Jerzy Maliaka.
    

Rapsodia Bałtyku (Baltic Rhapsodies). Imago-Vox-Film. Dir. Leonard Buczkowski.
    

Salve regina. Dir. Ireneusz Plater-Zyberk.
    

Serek i chleb: Reportaż podhalański (Cheese and Bread: A Report from the Podhale Region). Dir. Eugeniusz
      Cękalski.
    

Świt, dzień, i noc Palestyny (Morning, Noon, and Night in Palestine). Foto-Forbert. Dir. Henryk Boym.
    

Wacuś. Rex-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Zwarcie (Short Circuit). Dir. Franciszka and Stefan Themerson.
    

1936
    

30 karatów szczęścia (30 Carats of Happiness). Rex-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Ada! To nie wypada! (Ada, Don't Do That!). Feniks. Dir. Konrad Tom.
    

Al khet/Za grzechy (For the Sins). Kinor. Dir. Aleksander Marten.
    

Amerykańska awantura (An American Incident). Ero-Film. Dir. Ryszard Ordyński.
    

August Mocny (King August the Strong). Polski Tobis Cinema. Dir. Stanisław Wasylewski. (Polish version).
    

Barbara Radziwiłłówna. Gel-Film. Dir. Józef Lejtes.
    

Będzie lepiej (Things Will Get Better). Warszawskie Biuro Kinematograficzne Feniks. Dir. Michał
      Waszyński.
    

Bohaterowie Sybiru (The Heroes of Siberia). Urania Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Bolek i Lolek (Bolek and Lolek). Rex-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Dodek na froncie (Dodek at the Front). Rex-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Droga młodych/Mir kumen on (Children Must Laugh). Dir. Aleksander Ford.
    

Dwa dni w raju (Two Days in Paradise). Urania-Films. Dir. Leon Trystan.
    

Fredek uszczęśliwia świat (Fred Makes the World a Better Place). Varsovia Film. Dir. Zbigniew
      Ziembiński.
    

Jadzia. Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

Jego wielka miłość (His Great Love). Blok-Muza-Film. Dir. Stanisława Perzanowska.
    

Mały marynarz (Little Sailor). Arte-Film. Dir. Jan Nowina-Przybylski, Aleksander Łowicz, and Konrad Tom.
    

Pan Twardowski (Mr. Twardowski). Ultra-Film. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Papa się żeni (Papa Is Getting Married). Leo-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Róża (The Rose). Libkow-Film. Dir. Józef Lejtes.
    

Straszny dwór (The Haunted Manor). Imago-Vox. Dir. Leonard Buczkowski.
    

Tajemnica panny Brinx (Miss Brinx's Secret). Leo-Film. Dir. Bazyli Sikiewicz.
    

Trędowata (The Leper). Sfinks. Dir. Juliusz Gardan.
    

Wierna rzeka (The Faithful River). Or-film. Dir. Leonard Buczkowski.
    

Yidl mitn fidl/Judeł gra na skrzypcach (Yiddle with His Fiddle). Green-Film. Dir. Józef Green
      and Jan Nowina-Przybylski.
    

      1937
    

Der purimshpiler/Błazen purymowy (The Purim Player or The Jester). Green-Film. Dir. Jan
      Nowina-Przybylski. (Joseph Green is sometimes credited as codirector.)
    

Der dibuk/Dybuk (The Dybbuk). Warszawskie Biuro Kinematograficzne Feniks. Dir. Michał
      Waszyński.
    

Dorożkarz nr. 13 (The Carriage Driver Number 13). Imago-Vox. Dir. Marian Czauski.
    

Dyplomatyczna żona/Abenteuer in Warschau (A Diplomatic Wife). Polski Tobis
      Cinema. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz and Carl Boese. (This film was a German coproduction.)
    

Dziewczęta z Nowolipek (The Girls of Nowolipki). Parlo-Film. Dir. Józef Lejtes.
    

Freylekhe kaptsonim/Weseli biedacy (Jolly Paupers). Kinor. Dir. Leon Jeannot and Zygmunt
      Turkow.
    

Halka. Rex-Film. Dir. Juliusz Gardan.
    

Książątko (The Little Prince). Warszawskie Towarzystwo Filmowe. Dir. Konrad Tom and Stanisław Szebego.
    

Niedorajda (A Loser). Rex-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

O czym marzą kobiety (What Women Want). Imago-Vox. Dir. Aleksander Marten.
    

Ordynat Michorowski (Michorowski, Heir to the Throne). Femika-Film. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Pani minister tańczy (Miss Minister Is Dancing). Libkow-Film. Dir. Juliusz Gardan.
    

Pan redaktor szaleje (Mr. Editor Is Going Crazy). Orion-Film. Dir. Jan Nowina-Przybylski.
    

Parada Warszawy/Parada gwiazd Warszawy (The Warsaw Celebrities' Parade). Kaden-Film. Dir.
      Konrad Tom.
    

Pieśń o wielkim rzeźbiarzu (A Song about a Great Sculptor). Orion-Film. Dir. Jan Nowina-Przybylski.
      (This film was never exhibited.)
    

Piętro wyżej (The Apartment Above). Urania-Film. Dir. Leon Trystan.
    

Płomienne serca (Flaming Hearts). Polska Spółka Filmowa. Dir. Romuald Gantkowski.
    

Przygody człowieka poczciwego (The Adventures of a Kind-Hearted Man). Dir. Franciszka and Stefan
      Themerson.
    

Skłamałam (I Lied). Warszawskie Towarzystwo Filmowe. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

Tkies kaf/Ślubowanie (The Wedding Vow). Leo-Film. Dir. Henryk Szaro and Zygmunt Turkow.
    

Trójka hultajska (Three Troublemakers). Femika-Film. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Ty, co w ostrej świecisz bramie (You, Who on the Pointed Gateway Shine). Biuro Filmowe Stefan Nasfeter.
      Dir. Jan Nowina-Przybylski.
    

Ułan księcia Józefa (Prince Joseph's Uhlan). Warszawskie Towarzystwo Filmowe. Dir. Konrad Tom.
    

Znachor (The Quack). Feniks. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

      1938
    

A brivele der mamen/List do matki (A Short Letter to Mother). Green-Film. Dir. Leon Trystan and
      Joseph Green.
    

C.O.P. Stalowa Wola (Central Industrial Complex Stalowa Wola). Dir. Jerzy
      Gabryelski.
    

Druga młodość (A Second Youth). Warszawskie Biuro Kinematograficzne Feniks. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Dziewczyna szuka miłości (The Girl Looks for Love). Panta-Film. Dir. Romuald Gantkowski.
    

Florian. Elektra-Film. Dir. Leonard Buczkowski.
    

Gehenna (A Nightmare). Age-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Granica (The Line). Parlo-Film. Dir. Józef Lejtes.
    

Kobiety nad przepaścią (Women on the Edge). Biuro Filmowe Stefan Nasfeter. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Kościuszko pod Racławicami (Kościuszko at Racławice). Libkow-Film. Dir. Józef Lejtes.
    

Królowa przedmieścia (The Queen of the Suburb). Eksplo-Film. Dir. Eugeniusz Bodo.
    

Ludzie Wisły (The People of the Vistula). Ośrodek Produkcji Legia-Film. Dir. Aleksander Ford and Jerzy
      Zarzycki.
    

Mamele/Mateczka (Little Mother). Green-Film. Dir. Konrad Tom and Joseph Green.
    

Moi rodzice rozwodzą się (My Parents Are Getting Divorced). Libkow-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

Ostatnia brygada (The Last Brigade). Warszawskie Biuro Kinematograficzne Feniks. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Paweł i Gaweł (Pavel and Gavel). Rex-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

Profesor Wilczur (Professor Wilczur). Warszawskie Towarzystwo Filmowe. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Rena. Eksplofilm. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Robert i Bertrand/Dwaj złodzieje (Robert and Bertrand). Rex-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

Serce matki (A Mother's Heart). Terra-Film. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Sezonowa miłość (Seasonal Love). Feniks-Film. Dir. Henryk Szaro.
    

Strachy (The Ghosts). SAF. Dir. Eugeniusz Cękalski.
    

Sygnały (The Signals). Specto-Film. Dir. Józef Lejtes.
    

Szczęśliwa trzynastka (Lucky Number 13). Imago-Vox. Dir. Marian Czauski.
    

Wrzos (Heather). Elektra-Film. Marian Czauski. Dir. Juliusz Gardan.
    

Zapomniana melodia (The Forgotten Melody). Omnia-Film. Dir. Konrad Tom.
    

Za winy niepopełnione (Not Guilty). Rex-Film. Dir. Eugeniusz Bodo.
    

Za zasłoną (Behind the Curtain). Vita-Ton. Dir. Tadeusz Chrzanowski.
    

1939
    

Biały murzyn (White Slave). P.W.F. Dir. Leonard Buczkowski.
    

Bogurodzica. Femika-Film. Dir. Jan Fethke and Henryk Korewicki. (Bogurodzica, meaning "Mother
      of God," is the first known poem written in Polish.)
    

Czarne diamenty (Black Diamonds). Ewu-Film. Dir. Jerzy Gabryelski. (This film was never exhibited.)
    

Doktor Murek (Dr. Murek). Parlofilm. Dir. Juliusz Gardan.
    

Geniusz sceny (The Genius of the Stage). Biuro Filmowe Polskiej Agencji Telegraficznej. Dir. Romuald
      Gantkowski.
    

Ja tu rządzę (I Am the Boss Here). Lira-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

Kłamstwo Krystyny (Krystyna's Lie). Leo-Film. Dir. Hanryk Szaro.
    

O czym się nie mówi (The Unspeakable). Warszawskie Towarzystwo Filmowe. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

Przez łzy do szczęścia (To Happiness through Tears). Omnia-Film. Dir. Jerzy Sten.
    

Sportowiec mimo woli (A Sportsman against His Will). Libkow-Film. Dir. Mieczysław Krawicz.
    

Testament profesora Wilczura (Professor Wilczur's Last Will). Polonia-Film. Dir. Leonard Buczkowski.
    

Trzy serca (The Three Hearts). Feniks. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

U kresu drogi (At the End of the Road). K. S. Popławski. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Un a hejm/Baal tshuve/Bezdomni (The Homeless). Alma-Film. Dir. Aleksander Marten.
    

Włóczęgi (The Vagabonds). Feniks. Dir. Michał Waszyński.
    

Złota maska (The Golden Mask). Elektra-Film. Dir. Jan Fethke.
    

Żołnierz królowej Madagaskaru (The Soldier of the Queen of Madagascar). Baltic Film, Spółdzielnia
      Autorów Filmowych. Dir. Jerzy Zarzycki.
    

Żona i nie żona (A Wife for Them All). Eros-Film. Dir. Emil Chaberski.
    










Notes
    

      Introduction
    

1. Władysław
      Banaszkiewicz and Witold Witczak, eds., Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 1895-1929 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa
      Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1966), 29.
    

2. Karol Irzykowski,
      Dziesiąta muza: Zagadnienia estetyczne kina (Warsaw: Filmowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1957), 51 (emphasis in
      original). Unless stated otherwise, all translations are the author's.
    

3. Ibid., 51-52.
    

4. Ibid., 53.
    

5. Ibid.
    

6. Ibid.
    

7. Ibid.
    

8. "Jeszcze Polska nie
      umarła, póki my żyjemy" (Poland has not died, as long as we live) was originally the refrain of a fighting song
      written for Polish legionnaires in Italy by Józef Wybicki in 1797. Later, it was adopted as the Polish national
      anthem.
    

9. Film critic Leo
      Belmont was the founder of the Polish Association of Esperanto Enthusiasts, and he worked actively to support the
      language, as well as film, as two means of international communication. Among Esperanto enthusiasts was Jan
      Fethke, a screenwriter from the Silesian city of Opole. Among his writings are the German Mütter Krausens
      Fahrt ins Glück (Mother Krausen's Journey to Happiness, 1929) and at least twenty-five Polish-language sound
      films. An avid Esperantoist, Fethke wrote a novel in the language under the pseudonym Jean Forge. His 1931
      Mr. Tot acetas mil okulojn (Mr. Tot Buys a Thousand Eyes) formed the basis for Fritz Lang's Die
      Tausend Augen des Dr. Mabuse (The Thousand Eyes of Dr. Mabuse, 1960). See Jan F. Lewandowski, Kino na
      pograniczu: Wędrówki po dziejach filmu na Górnym Śląsku (Katowice: "Śląsk" Sp. z.o.o., Wydawnictwo Naukowe,
      1998), 39.
    

      Chapter 1
    

1. Jan M. Małecki, Zarys
      dziejów Polski, 1864-1939 (Kraków: Wydawnictwo Znak, 1991), 83-94 and 141-43.
    

2. Małgorzata Hendrykowska,
      "Kinematograf na przełomie stuleci—W poszukiwaniu formuły rozwoju: Kilka uwag o filmie na ziemiach polskich przed
      rokiem 1908," in Polska kultura filmowa do 1939 roku, ed. Jolanta Lemann-Zajíček
      (Łódź: Państwowa Wyższa Szkoła Filmowa, Telewizyjna i Teatralna, 2003), 30.
    

3. Władysław Banaszkiewicz
      and Witold Witczak, eds., Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 1895-1929 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i
      Filmowe, 1966), 27.
    

4. Stefania Beylin, ed.,
      Nowiny i nowinki filmowe, 1896-1939 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1973), 20-21.
    

5. Dobrochna Dabert writes
      that Edison's Vitascope was used for these demonstrations. See Dabert, "Życie filmowe Lwowa w dwudziestolecie
      międzywojennym," Ukraine-Poland, http://www.ukraine-poland.com/u/kultura/kultura.php?id=24. However, given the advertised program and
      the Vitascope's cost and difficulties, it is most likely that this was a real or counterfeit copy of the
      Kinetoscope. For an analysis of the Vitascope's complications, see Charles Musser, The Emergence of Cinema:
      The American Screen to 1907 (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1990), 128-32.
    

6. Andrzej Urbańczyk,
      Kinematograf na scenie: Pierwsze pokazy filmowe w Krakowie XI-XII 1896 (Kraków: Krakowski Dom Kultury,
      Centrum Sztuki Filmowej, 1986), 30-31.
    

7. Stanisław Janicki, W
      starym polskim kinie (Warsaw: Krajowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1985), 14.
    

8. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 29.
    

9. Ibid., 37.
    

10. Mariusz Guzek,
      Filmowa Bydgoszcz, 1896-1939 (Toruń: Dom Wydawniczy Duet, 2004), 12.
    

11. Ibid, 15-16.
    

12. Janicki, W starym
      polskim kinie, 15.
    

13. This is probably due to
      vendors' desire to inflate ticket prices (to base their ticket prices on the number of offerings) rather than a
      demonstrated desire to see these shows on the part of the audiences.
    

14. Hanna Krajewska,
      Życie filmowe Łodzi w latach 1896-1939 (Warsaw: Polskie Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 1992), 18-19.
    

15. According to Krajewska,
      Eugeniusz Krejcberg applied for permission to show motion pictures at this location. See Krajewska, Życie
      filmowe Łodzi, 26-27. Janicki claims that Władysław Krzemiński opened a permanent motion picture theater in
      Łódź in 1899. See Janicki, W starym polskim kinie, 15.
    

16. Andrzej Urbańczyk,
      Cyrk Edison: Pierwsze kino Krakowa, 1906-1912 (Kraków: Krakowski Dom Kultury, Centrum Sztuki Filmowej,
      1985), 6-7.
    

17. Krajewska, Życie
      filmowe Łodzi, 30.
    

18. Małgorzata Hendrykowska
      and Marek Hendrykowski, Film w Poznaniu i Wielkopolsce, 1896-1914 (Poznań: Wydawnictwo Poznańskie,
      1990), 11.
    

19. This list is compiled
      from Małgorzata Hendrykowska, Śladami tamtych cieni: Film w kulturze polskiej przełomu stuleci,
      1895-1914 (Poznań: Oficyna Wydawnicza Book Service, 1993), 113, and Guzek, Filmowa Bydgoszcz, 19.
    

20. Krajewska, Życie
      filmowe Łodzi, 38.
    

21. Ibid., 21.
    

22. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 38.
    

23. Ibid.
    

24. Władysław Jewsiewicki,
      Polska kinematografia w okresie filmu niemego, 1895-1929/1930 (Łódź: Łódzkie Towarzystwo Naukowe, 1966),
      23.
    

25. Hendrykowska,
      "Kinematograf na przełomie stuleci," 10.
    

26. Ibid., 13-16.
    

27. Ibid., 20.
    

28. Ibid., 26.
    

29. Ibid., 28.
    

30. Włodzimierz Perzyński,
      "Tryumf kinematografu," in Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tektstów z lat 1898-1939, ed. Jadwiga
      Bocheńska (Wrocław: Wydawnictwo Polskiej Akademii Nauk, 1975), 19-20.
    

31. Stephen Bottomore,
      "Dreyfus and Documentary," Sight and Sound 53, no. 4 (1984): 290-93.
    

32. Janicki, W starym
      polskim kinie, 15.
    

33. Antoni Krzemiński, "Jak
      powstało pierwsze kino w Polsce," pamphlet, Filmoteka Narodowa, II 18582, Warsaw.
    

34. Stefania Beylin, A
      jak to było, opowiem . . . (Warsaw: Filmowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1958), 19.
    

35. Józef Jedlicz, "Teatr i
      kino," in Boheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów, 131.
    

36. Marian Stępowski,
      "Wszechwładztwo kinematografu," in Boheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów, 86.
    

37. Irena Nowak-Zaorska,
      Polski film oświatowy w okresie międzywojennym (Wrocław: Zakład Narodowy im. Ossolińskich, 1969), 46.
    

38. Guzek, Filmowa
      Bydgoszcz, 14.
    

39. Beylin, Nowiny i
      nowinki, 24.
    

40. Janicki, W starym
      polskim kinie, 13.
    

41. Dobrochna Dabert, "Wątki
      ukraińskie w polskim filmie: Wstępny rekonesans," Ukraine-Poland, http://www.ukraine-poland.com/u/kultura/kultura.php?id=17.
    

42. Janicki, W starym
      polskim kinie, 11.
    

43. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 40.
    

44. Hendrykowska,
      Śladami tamtych cieni, 47-48.
    

45. Piotr S. Wandycz,
      The Lands of Partitioned Poland, 1795-1918 (Seattle: University of Washington Press, 1996), 285.
    

46. Ibid., 303.
    

47. Ibid., 305.
    

48. Beylin, Nowiny i
      nowinki, 22-23.
    

49. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 31.
    

50. Nowak-Zaorska,
      Polski film oświatowy, 45.
    

51. Beylin, Nowiny i
      nowinki, 22.
    

52. See Jadwiga Bocheńska,
      "Portrety na szklonych emaliach—Nieznany tekst Bolesława Matuszewskiego," in Lemann-Zajíček, Polska kultura
      filmowa, 244-50.
    

53. Boleslas Matuszewski
      [Bolesław Matuszewski], "A New Source of History: The Creation of a Depository for National Cinematography (Paris
      1898)," trans. Julia Block Frey, http://www.latrobe.edu.au/screeningthepast/classics/clasjul/mat.html.
    

54. Ibid.
    

55. Ibid.
    

56. Ibid.
    

57. Ibid.
    

      Chapter 2
    

1. Małgorzata
      Hendrykowska and Marek Hendrykowski, Film w Poznaniu i Wielkopolsce, 1896-1914 (Poznań: Wydawnictwo
      Poznańskie, 1990), 75.
    

2. Władysław
      Banaszkiewicz and Witold Witczak, eds., Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 1895-1929 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa
      Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1966), 62-63.
    

3. Ibid., 86
    

4. Ibid., 74.
    

5. Ibid., 87.
    

6. Natan Gross, Film
      żydowski w Polsce (Kraków: Rabid, 2002), 27.
    

7. Władysław Jewsiewicki,
      Polska kinematografia w okresie filmu niemego, 1895-1929/1930 (Łódź: Łódzkie Towarzystwo Naukowe, 1966),
      53.
    

8. Irena Nowak-Zaorska,
      Polski film oświatowy w okresie międzywojennym (Wrocław: Zakład Narodowy im. Ossolińskich, 1969), 46-48.
    

9. Witczak and
      Banaszkiewicz, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 59.
    

10. Ibid., 61.
    

11. Dobrochna Dabert,
      http://www.ukraine-poland.com/u/kultura/kultura.php?id=17.
    

12. Ibid.
    

13. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 60.
    

14. Ibid., 61.
    

15. Nowak-Zaorska,
      Polski film oświatowy, 55.
    

16. Władysław
      Starewicz, directed by Wadim Berestowski (Tuszyn: Studio Małych Form Filmowych Se-Ma-For, 1986).
    

17. Mariusz Guzek,
      Filmowa Bydgoszcz, 1896-1939 (Toruń: Dom Wydawniczy Duet, 2004), 33.
    

18. Krystyna Kubala,
      "Początki życia filmowego na ziemi rybnicko-wodzisławskiej i Raciborszczyźnie," in Filmowe światy z dziejów X
      muzy na Górnym Śląsku, ed. Andrzej Gwóźdź (Katowice: Śląsk, Sp. z.o.o. Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 1998), 31-32.
    

19. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 81.
    

20. Jewsiewicki,
      Polska kinematografia w okresie filmu niemego, 41-43.
    

21. Hendrykowska and
      Hendrykowski, Film w Poznaniu, 43.
    

22. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 50.
    

23. Jewsiewicki,
      Polska kinematografia w okresie filmu niemego, 36-38.
    

24. Andrzej Urbańczyk,
      Cyrk Edison: Pierwsze kino Krakowa, 1906-1912 (Kraków: Krakowski Dom Kultury, Centrum Sztuki Filmowej,
      1985), 24.
    

25. Stanisław Janicki, "O
      repertuarze kin skoczowskich w latach 1913-1914," in Gwóźdź, Filmowe światy, 8-10.
    

26. Ibid., 14-15.
    

27. Leo Belmont, "Hołd
      kinematografowi," in Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tektstów z lat 1898-1939, ed. Jadwiga Bocheńska
      (Wrocław: Wydawnictwo Polskiej Akademii Nauk, 1975), 22.
    

28. Małgorzata
      Hendrykowska, Śladami tamtych cieni: Film w kulturze polskiej przełomu stuleci, 1895-1914 (Poznań:
      Oficyna Wydawnicza Book Service, 1993), 117.
    

29. Hendrykowska refers
      here to early attempts at adding sound to motion pictures, such as occurred in the years before World War I.
    

30. Hendrykowska,
      Śladami tamtych cieni, 260-61.
    

31. Guzek, Filmowa
      Bydgoszcz, 16.
    

32. Ibid., 20.
    

33. Kubala, "Początki
      życia filmowego," 27.
    

34. Zbigniew Wyszyński,
      Filmowy Kraków (Kraków: Wydawnictwo Literackie, 1975), 54-55.
    

35. Urszula Biel,
      Śląskie kina między wojnami, czyli przyjemność upolityczniona (Katowice: "Śląsk" Sp. z.o.o., Wydawnictwo
      Naukowe, 2002), 330-33.
    

36. Guzek, Filmowa
      Bydgoszcz, 28-29.
    

37. Jan F. Lewandowski,
      Kino na pograniczu: Wędrówki po dziejach filmu na Górnym Śląsku (Katowice: "Śląsk" Sp. z.o.o.,
      Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 1998), 12-13.
    

38. Karol Iryzkowski,
      "Death of the Cinematograph," trans. Marek Hendrykowski, Film History 10, no. 4 (1998): 453-58.
    

39. Jadwiga Bocheńska,
      Polska myśl filmowa do roku 1939 (Wrocław: Wydawnictwo Polskiej Akademii Nauk, 1974), 29.
    

40. Tadeusz Dąbrowski,
      "Teatr . . . Głuchoniemych," in Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów, 53.
    

41. Ibid., 63.
    

42. Tadeusz Dąbrowski,
      "Kinematograf i kinetofon," in Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów, 66-69.
    

43. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 78.
    

44. Karol Irzykowski,
      "Śmierć kinematografu?" Świat, May 24, 1913.
    

45. Ibid.
    

46. Ibid.
    

47. Władysław
      Jewsiewicki, Z dziejów polsko-radzieckiej współpracy filmowej, 1917-1977 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa
      Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1979), 7.
    

48. Stanisław Ozimek,
      Film polski w wojennej potrzebie (Warsaw: Państwowy Instytut Wydawniczy, 1974), 20-21.
    

49. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 245.
    

50. Ibid., 100.
    

51. Ibid.
    

      Chapter 3
    

1. Jan Stanisław Bystroń,
      "Socjologia kina," in Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów z lat 1898-1939, ed. Jadwiga Bocheńska
      (Wrocław: Wydawnictwo Polskiej Akademii Nauk, 1975), 99-100.
    

2. Article 10 of the
      constitution passed on March 17, 1921, http://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Konstytucja_marcowa. See also Konstytucja 17 marca 1921 r. (Warsaw:
      Nakł. Dziennika Rzeczpospolita, 1921).
    

3. Władysław
      Banaszkiewicz and Witold Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 1895-1929 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa
      Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1966), 126.
    

4. Ibid., 131.
    

5. Władysław Jewsiewicki,
      Polska kinematografia w okresie filmu niemego, 1895-1929/1930 (Łódź: Łódzkie Towarzystwo Naukowe, 1966),
      136.
    

6. Edward Zajíček, ed.,
      Film, kinematografia. Encyclopedia kultury polskiej XX wieku (Warsaw: Instytut Kultury/Komitet
      Kinematografia, 1994), 47. See also Władysław Balcerzak, Przemysł filmowy w Polsce (Warsaw: Drukarnia
      Zrzeszenia Samorządów Powiatowych, 1928).
    

7. Zajíček, Film,
      kinematografia, 47.
    

8. Natan Gross, Film
      żydowski w Polsce (Kraków: Rabid, 2002), 31.
    

9. The First Polish
      Cinematographic-Artistic Cooperative Artfilm.
    

10. "Utwory nadające się
      do realizacji filmowej," Film Polski, February-March 1923, 38.
    

11. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 120.
    

12. Małgorzata
      Hendrykowska and Marek Hendrykowski, Film w Poznaniu i Wielkopolsce, 1896-1914 (Poznań: Wydawnictwo
      Poznańskie, 1990), 64.
    

13. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 121.
    

14. Franciszek Pik
      Mirandola, "Dom zapomnienia," Ekran: Organ przemysłu kinematograficznego, March 20, 1920, 1-2.
    

15. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 133 and 250.
    

16. Stanisław Ozimek,
      Film polski w wojennej potrzebie (Warsaw: Państwowy Instytut Wydawniczy, 1974), 20-23.
    

17. Marian Stępowski,
      "Wszechwładztwo kinematografu," in Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów, 59-41.
    

18. Irena Nowak-Zaorska,
      Polski film oświatowy w okresie międzywojennym (Wrocław: Zakład Narodowy im. Ossolińskich, 1969), 68.
    

19. Ibid., 83.
    

20. Mariusz Guzek,
      Filmowa Bydgoszcz, 1896-1939 (Toruń: Dom Wydawniczy Duet, 2004), 51-52.
    

21. Ibid., 52-54.
    

22. Ibid., 84-106.
    

23. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 128.
    

24. Hendrykowska and
      Hendrykowski, Film w Poznaniu, 66-67.
    

25. Ibid., 67.
    

26. Ibid., 69.
    

27. Antoni Marczewski,
      Cenzura teatralna i kinematograficzna (Warsaw: Nakładem Księgarni F. Hoesicka, 1925), 5.
    

28. Wiktor Biegański,
      quoted in Stanisław Janicki, W starym polskim kinie (Warsaw: Krajowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1985), 61-62.
    

29. Gross, Film
      żydowski w Polsce, 32.
    

      Chapter 4
    

1. "Przy pomocy Rządu
      powinna powstać wielka wytwórnia filmowa," Kinoteatr dla wszystkich, March 1925, 2.
    

2. Władysław
      Banaszkiewicz and Witold Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 1895-1929 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa
      Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1966), 167-69.
    

3. Ibid., 163.
    

4. Jerzy Maśnicki and
      Kamil Stępan, Pleograf: Słownik biograficzny filmu polskiego, 1896-1939 (Kraków: Staromiejska Oficyna
      Wydawnicza, 1996), n.p.
    

5. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 182.
    

6. "Głosy o polskiej
      produkcji II: Rozmowa z reżyserem H. Finkelsteinem," Kino dla wszystkich, March 1, 1929, 9.
    

7. Irena Nowak-Zaorska,
      Polski film oświatowy w okresie międzywojennym (Wrocław: Zakład Narodowy im. Ossolińskich, 1969),
      112-13.
    

8. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 194.
    

9. Małgorzata
      Hendrykowska, Kronika kinematografii polskiej, 1895-1997 (Poznań: Ars Nova, 1999), 87.
    

10. Antoni Słonimski,
      Kroniki tygodniowe, 1927-1931 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwo LTW, 2001), 343.
    

11. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 151.
    

12. Hendrykowska,
      Kronika kinematografii, 94.
    

13. Marek Haltof,
      Polish National Cinema (New York: Berghahn Books, 2002), 10.
    

14. "Ewolucja przemysłu
      filmowego w Polsce pomiędzy 1919-1926," Kino dla wszystkich, April 15, 1927, 7.
    

15. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 187.
    

16. Tadeusz Miczka,
      "Mitologia ojczyzny i kompleksy narodowe w polskim filmie fabularnym," in W stulecie kina: Sztuka filmowa w
      Polsce, ed. Ewelina Nurczyńska-Fidelska and Zbigniew Batko (Łódź: Centralny Gabinet Edukacji Filmowej Dzieci
      i Młodzieży, 1996), 63.
    

17. Ibid., 66.
    

18. Karol Irzykowski,
      Dziesiąta muza: Zagadnienia estetyczne kina (Warsaw: Filmowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1957), 51.
    

19. Antoni Słonimski,
      Kroniki tygodniowe, 1927-1939, ed. Władysław Kopaliński (Warsaw: Państwowy Instytut Wydawniczy, 1956),
      283.
    

20 Ibid., 59.
    

21. Banaszkiewicz and
      Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: tom 1, 160.
    

22. Ibid., 255.
    

23. "Pierwszy polski film
      mówiący: 'W lasach polskich,'" Kino dla wszystkich, January 1, 1929, 27.
    

24. Film Velt,
      September 1928, cover.
    

25. "Pierwszy polski film
      mówiący: 'W lasach polskich,'" Kino dla wszystkich, January 1, 1929, 27.
    

26. Natan Gross, Film
      żydowski w Polsce (Kraków: Rabid, 2002), 46.
    

27. According to J.
      Hoberman in Bridge of Light: Yiddish Film between Two Worlds (New York: Museum of Modern Art and
      Schocken Books, 1991), 147, it was at the Splendid. According to Gross in Film żydowski w Polsce, 46, it
      was at the Rococo.
    

28. "Pierwszy polski film
      mówiący: 'W lasach polskich,'" 27.
    

29. Hoberman, Bridge
      of Light, 148.
    

30. Gross, Film
      żydowski w Polsce, 59.
    

      Chapter 5
    

1. "Film mówiący:
      Wynalazek polski Karola Marczaka," Film polski, February-March 1923, 44.
    

2. His only other
      contribution appears to be the creation of a puppet film, Kwiat paproci (The Pot of Gold), in 1934.
    

3. Barbara Armatys,
      Leszek Armatys, and Wiesław Stradomski, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 2, 1930-1939 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa
      Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1988), 18-19.
    

4. Armatys, Armatys,
      and Stradomski estimate that there were two hundred thousand illiterate adults in Warsaw in the mid-1930s, citing
      a poll published in ABC in 1934. In one neighborhood, 20 percent of residents could not read. See
      Armatys, Armatys, and Stradomski, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 2, 129.
    

5. Antoni Słonimski,
      Kroniki tygodniowe, 1927-1931 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwo LTW, 2001), 212.
    

6. Władysław Jewsiewicki,
      Polska kinematografia w okresie filmu dźwiękowego, 1930-1939 (Łódź: Łódzkie Towarzystwo Naukowe, 1967),
      47.
    

7. Ibid., 46-48.
    

8. Long considered lost,
      a copy of the silent version of Cult of the Body with Flemish and French subtitles was found in Brussels
      in 1997.
    

9. Armatys, Armatys, and
      Stradomski, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 2, 125.
    

10. Stefania Zahorska,
      "Kronika Filmowa: Antek Policmajster," in Nowiny i nowinki filmowe, 1896-1939, ed. Stefania Beylin
      (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1973), 248.
    

11. Armatys, Armatys, and
      Stradomski, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 2, 238.
    

12. Władysław
      Banaszkiewicz and Witold Witczak, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 1895-1929 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa
      Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1966), 43.
    

13. Stefania Beylin,
      A jak to było, opowiem . . . (Warsaw: Filmowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1958), 65.
    

14. Barbara Gierszewska,
      Kino: Czasopiśmiennictwo filmowe w Polsce do 1939 (Kielce: Wyższa Szkoła Pedagogiczna im. Jana
      Kochanowskiego, 1995), 156.
    

15. Armatys, Armatys, and
      Stradomski, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 2, 73.
    

16. For a complete list,
      see Gierszewska, Kino: Czasopiśmiennictwo filmowe, 241-80.
    

17. Ibid., 219.
    

18. Beylin, Nowiny i
      nowinki, 49.
    

19. Gierszewska,
      Kino: Czasopiśmiennictwo filmowe, 230.
    

20. Juanitta and Littchen
      are most likely fabrications of the editors of Kino.
    

21. Juanitta,
      "Publiczność ma głos: Za i przeciw dźwiękowcom," Kino, July 3, 1930, 13.
    

22. Gerhard Littchen,
      "Publiczność ma głos: Za i przeciw dźwiękowcom," Kino, July 27, 1930, 13.
    

23. Leon Brun, "Zabójstwo
      Niemej Muzy, czyli pierworodny grzech 'Talkiesów,'" Kino, September 20, 1931, 13.
    

24. Adolf Nowaczyński,
      "Niech nadal będzie 'Wielką Niemową,'" Kino dla wszystkich, January 15, 1929, 2.
    

25. Leon Brun, "A jeśli
      Niemowa chce mówić?" Kino dla wszystkich, January 15, 1929, 5.
    

26. J. Truszkowska, "Co
      myślę o 'dźwiękowcach,'" Kino dla wszystkich, May 15, 1929, 7.
    

27. Leon Brun, "Polski
      film," Kino, April 13, 1930, 3.
    

28. Jerzy Toeplitz, "Czy
      'talkie' zabija kino?" Kino, October 26, 1930, 4.
    

29. W. Jezierski, "Film
      dźwiękowy jest wielkim wynalazkiem, ale . . . ," Kino, October 26, 1930, 13.
    

30. Leon Brun, "Rewolucja
      talkiesów jest groźbą dla kina," Kino, January 18, 1931, 13.
    

31. Karol Irzykowski, "Co
      myślę o filmach dźwiękowych?" Kino, March 16, 1930, 2.
    

32. Ibid.
    

33. Juljusz
      Pogoń-Ślizowski, "Film dźwiękowy," Kinoświat, no. 6 (1930): 10.
    

34. Hendrykowska,
      Kronika kinematografii, 108-26.
    

35. Jewsiewicki,
      Polska kinematografia w okresie filmu dźwiękowego, 181.
    

36. Ibid., 13-15.
    

37. Armatys, Armatys, and
      Stradomski, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 2, 14.
    

38. Hendrykowska,
      Kronika kinematografii, 129.
    

39. Edward Zajíček,
      "Kilka mitów i trochę faktów. O niektórych prawnych i ekonomicznych uwarunkowaniach polskiego filmu w okresie
      międzywojennym," in Polska kultura filmowa do 1939 roku, ed. Jolanta Lemann-Zajíček (Łódź: Państwowa
      Wyższa Szkoła Filmowa, Telewizyjna i Teatralna, 2003), 41-42.
    

40. Armatys, Armatys, and
      Stradomski, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 2, 16-17.
    

41. Ibid., 19-20.
    

42. Ibid., 114.
    

43. In the next years, in
      spite of the near monopoly held by Tobis-Klangfilm, which quickly supplanted the American firm in Poland, Polish
      sound projectors, including those constructed by Teofil Jarosz and Zenon Michałowski, became available.
    

44. Danuta Sieradzka, "Z
      akt filmowych Archiwum Państwowego w Katowicach," in Filmowe światy z dziejów X muzy na Górnym Śląsku,
      ed. Andrzej Gwóźdź (Katowice: "Śląsk" Sp. z.o.o., Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 1998), 43-51.
    

45. Urszula Biel,
      Śląskie kina między wojnami, czyli przyjemność upolityczniona (Katowice: "Śląsk" Sp. z.o.o., Wydawnictwo
      Naukowe, 2002), 341-42.
    

46. Sieradzka, "Z akt
      filmowych Archiwum Państwowego w Katowicach," 43-51.
    

47. Magdalena Ślusarek,
      "Spory wokół Kinoteatru Miejskiego w Białej," in Gwóźdź, Filmowe światy, 19-20.
    

48. Biel, Śląskie
      kina między wojnami, 347.
    

49. Ticket prices
      differed. In 1935, at the Stylowy in Warsaw, a ticket for the balcony cost 2.20 zlotys; on the ground floor, it
      cost 4.00 zlotys. In cinemas showing second-run films, audiences in the capital could watch one for 54 groszes,
      and in the provinces for as little as 25 groszes. See Armatys, Armatys, and Stradomski, Historia kina
      polskiego: Tom 2, 16.
    

50. Dabert, http://www.ukraine-poland.com/u/kultura/kultura.php?id=17.
    

51. Ibid.
    

52. Słonimski,
      Kroniki tygodniowe: 1927-1931, 286-88.
    

53. Jan F. Lewandowski,
      Kino na pograniczu: Wędrówki po dziejach filmu na Górnym Śląsku (Katowice: "Śląsk" Sp. z.o.o.,
      Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 1998), 12-13.
    

54. Guzek, Filmowa
      Bydgoszcz, 131-34.
    

55. Biel, Śląskie
      kina między wojnami, 334-35.
    

56. Ibid., 334-36.
    

57. Ibid., 340.
    

58. Leon Brun, "Kino nie
      powinno jątrzyć antagonizmów narodowych: Pożądany zwrot w sprawie filmów antypolskich w Niemczech," Kino dla
      wszystkich, June 1, 1927, 1.
    

59. Hendrykowska,
      Kronika kinematografii, 124-26.
    

      Chapter 6
    

1. Alina Madej,
      "Przedwojenne kino polskie—Warunki popularności," in W stulecie kina: Sztuka filmowa w Polsce, ed.
      Ewelina Nurczyńska-Fidelska and Zbigniew Batko (Łódź: Centralny Gabinet Edukacji Filmowej Dzieci i Młodzieży,
      1996), 8-9.
    

2. Ibid., 9-10.
    

3. Antoni Słonimski,
      Kroniki tygodniowe, 1927-1931 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwo LTW, 2001), 31-32.
    

4. Ibid.
    

5. Madej, "Przedwojenne
      kino polskie—warunki popularności," 13.
    

6. Barbara Armatys,
      Leszek Armatys, and Wiesław Stradomski, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 2, 1930-1939 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa
      Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1988), 252.
    

7. Ibid., 255.
    

8. Ibid., 256-57.
    

9. Ibid., 245.
    

10. Edward Zajíček, "Kilka
      słow i trochę faktów o niektórych prawnych i ekonomicznych uwarunkowaniach polskiego filmu w okresie
      międzywojennym," in Polska kultura filmowa do 1939 roku, ed. Jolanta Lemann-Zajíček (Łódź: Państwowa
      Wyższa Szkoła Filmowa, Telewizyjna i Teatralna, 2003), 45-46.
    

11. Armatys, Armatys, and
      Stradomski, Historia kina polskiego: Tom 2, 106.
    

12. Jerzy Maśnicki and
      Kamil Stępan, Pleograf: Słownik biograficzny filmu polskiego, 1896-1939 (Kraków: Staromiejska Oficyna
      Wydawnicza, 1996), n.p.
    

13. Armatys, Armatys, and
      Stradomski, Historia kina polskiego: Tom 2, 58.
    

14. Leszek Armatys,
      Dorobek teoretyczny i działalność produkcyjna 'Startu,' 1930-1935 (Warsaw: Centralne Archwium Filmowe,
      1960), 49.
    

15. Ibid., 71.
    

16. Stanisław Janicki,
      Eugeniusz Cękalski (Warsaw: Filmowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1958).
    

17. Eugeniusz Cękalski, "A
      . . . B . . . C . . . taśmy filmowej," in Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów z lat 1898-1939, ed.
      Jadwiga Bocheńska (Wrocław: Wydawnictwo Polskiej Akademii Nauk, 1975), 180.
    

18. Ibid.
    

19. Eugeniusz Cękalski,
      "Drogi rozwoju filmu dzwiękowego," Epoch, July 9, 1933, 16.
    

20. Armatys, Armatys, and
      Stradomski, Historia kina polskiego: Tom 2, 171-72.
    

21. Marcin Giżycki, "Film w
      kręgu polskiej awangardy dwudziestolecia międzywojennego" in Film awangardowy w Polsce i na świecie, ed.
      Ryszard W. Kluszczyński (Łódź: Łódzki Dom Kultury, 1989), 92.
    

22. Stefania Beylin, ed.,
      Nowiny i nowinki filmowe, 1896-1939 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1973), 226.
    

23. Tadeusz Peiper, "Ku
      specyficzności kina," in Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów, 122-23.
    

24. Beylin, Nowiny i
      nowinki, 222.
    

25. For more information on
      the filmmaking avant-garde, see Marcin Giżycki, Awangarda wobec kina: Film w kręgu polskiej awangardy
      artystycznej dwudziestolecia międzywojennego (Warsaw: Wydawnictwo Małe, 1996) and Walka o film
      artystyczny w międzywojennej Polsce (Warsaw: Państwowe Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 1989). For more on futurism, see
      Tadeusz Miczka, "Kino jako poezja optyczna: Próby futurizacji kinematografu w polsce w latach 1918-1939," in
      Kino-film: Poezja optyczna? ed. Jan Trzynadlowski (Wrocław: Uniwersytet Wrocławski, 1995), 5-29.
    

26. Beylin, Nowiny i
      nowinki, 200.
    

27. J. Hoberman, Bridge
      of Light: Yiddish Film between Two Worlds (New York: Museum of Modern Art and Schocken Books, 1991), 227.
    

28. Edward Zajíček, ed.,
      Film, kinematografia. Encyklopedia kultury polskiej XX wieku (Warsaw: Instytut Kultury, Komitet
      Kinematografia, 1994), 203.
    

29. Irena Nowak-Zaorska,
      Polski film oświatowy w okresie międzywojennym (Wrocław: Zakład Narodowy im. Ossolińskich, 1969),
      127-28.
    

30. Ibid., 151.
    

31. Władysław Jewsiewicki
      gives the date as 1934. See Jewsiewicki, Materiały do dziejów filmu w Polsce (Warsaw: Państwowy Instytut
      Sztuki, 1952) for a list of short films made in the interwar period.
    

32. Jan F. Lewandowski,
      Kino na pograniczu: Wędrówki po dziejach filmu na Górnym Śląsku (Katowice: "Śląsk" Sp. z.o.o.,
      Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 1998), 35.
    

33. Maciej Łukowski,
      Polski film etnograficzny (Warsaw: Ludowa Spółdzielnia Wydawnicza, 1987), 16.
    

34. Małgorzata
      Hendrykowska, Kronika kinematografii polskiej, 1895-1997 (Poznań: Ars Nova, 1999), 118.
    

35. Stern is quoted in
      Stanisław Janicki, W starym polskim kinie (Warsaw: Krajowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1985), 70.
    

36. Władysław Jewsiewicki,
      Polska kinematografia w okresie filmu dźwiękowego (Łódź: Łódzkie Towarzystwo Naukowe, 1967), 106.
    

      Chapter 7
    

1. Dobrochna Dabert, http://www.ukraine-poland.com/u/kultura/kultura.php?id=17.
    

2. In April 1934, a large
      hall for filming was built at 11 Trębacka Street. In 1937, Falanga expanded its operations to include two studios
      at 3/5 Chopin Street, and there was also a large space for filming in the Wola district of Warsaw. In total,
      there were five studios for indoor filming in Warsaw during the 1930s as well as five laboratories for developing
      and copying film. Barbara Armatys, Leszek Armatys, and Wiesław Stradomski, Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 2,
      1930-1939 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1988), 23.
    

3. A second film portraying
      sixteenth-century Kraków, Pan Twardowski, was also made in 1936 by director Henryk Szaro.
    

4. Armatys, Armatys, and
      Stradomski, Historia kina polskiego: Tom 2, 299.
    

5. Natan Gross, Film
      żydowski w Polsce (Kraków: Rabid, 2002), 73. For more on the production, see also Eric A. Goldman,
      Visions, Images, and Dreams: Yiddish Film Past and Present (Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Research
      Press, 1983), 109.
    

6. Edward Zajíček, ed.,
      Film, kinematografia, Encyclopedia kultury polskiej XX wieku (Warsaw: Instytut Kultury, 1994), 267.
    

7. Jerzy S. Majewski,
      Warszawa nieodbudowana: Lata trzydzieste (Warsaw: Agencja Wydawnicza Veda, 2005), 137.
    

8. Mariusz Guzek, Filmowa
      Bydgoszcz, 1896-1939 (Toruń: Dom Wydawniczy Duet, 2004), 148-49.
    

9. Antoni Słonimski,
      Kroniki tygodniowe, 1927-1931 (Warsaw: Wydawnictwo LTW, 2001), 150.
    

10. Ibid., 253.
    

11. Ryszard Miazek,
      Przemineło z radiem: Opowieść o Zygmuncie Chamcu—Założycielu i pierwszym dyrektorze Polskiego Radia
      (Rzeszów: Wyższa Szkoła Informatyki i Zarządzania z Siedzibą w Rzeszowie, 2005), 219-31.
    

12. Jolanta Lemann-Zajíček,
      "Instytucjonalizacja filmowego życia społecznego w II Rzeczypospolitej (1918-1939)," in Polska kultura
      filmowa do 1939 roku, ed. Jolanta Lemann-Zajíček (Łódź: Państwowa Wyższa Szkoła Filmowa, Telewizyjna i
      Teatralna, 2003), 76.
    

13. Gross, Film żydowski
      w Polsce, 62.
    

14. Urszula Biel,
      Śląskie kina między wojnami, czyli przyjemność upolityczniona (Katowice: "Śląsk" Sp. z.o.o., Wydawnictwo
      Naukowe, 2002), 356.
    

15. J. Hoberman, Bridge
      of Light: Yiddish Film between Two Worlds (New York: Museum of Modern Art and Schocken Books, 1991), 225.
    

16. Ibid., 242.
    

17. Madej, "Przedwojenne kino
      polskie—Warunki popularności," in W stulecie kina: Sztuka filmowa w Polsce, ed. Ewelina
      Nurczyńska-Fidelska and Zbigniew Batko (Łódź: Centralny Gabinet Edukacji Filmowej Dzieci i Młodzieży, 1996),
      15-16.
    

18. Guzek, Filmowa
      Bydgoszcz, 146-47.
    

19. Leon Brun, "Sztuka filmowa
      wobec religji," Kino dla wszystkich, December 15, 1927, 1.
    

20. Leon Brun, "Spojrzenie na
      świat przez ekran," in Mniszkówna . . . i co dalej w polskim kinie? Wybór tekstów z czasopism filmowych
      dwudziestolecia międzywojennego, ed. Barbara Gierszewska (Kielce: Wydawnictwo Akademii Świętokrzyskiej,
      2001), 44-45. Brun's use of the term "cosmopolitan" most likely refers to anti-Jewish propaganda.
    

21. Karol Irzykowski,
      Dziesiąta muza: Zagadnienia estetyczne kina (Warsaw: Filmowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1957), 52.
    

      Conclusion
    

1. Jerzy Maśnicki and Kamil
      Stepan, Pleograf: Słownik biograficzny filmu polskiego, 1896-1939 (Kraków: Staromiejska Oficyna
      Wydawnicza, 1996), n.p.
    

2. John Orr and Elżbieta
      Ostrowska, eds., The Cinema of Andrzej Wajda: The Art of Irony and Defiance (London: Wallflower Press,
      2003), xvi.
    










Bibliography
    

      Abel, Richard, ed. Encyclopedia of Early Cinema. London: Routledge, 2005.
    

      Armatys, Barbara, and Leszek Armatys. Dorobek teoretyczny i działalność produkcyjna "Startu," 1930-1931.
      Warsaw: Centralne Archiwum Filmowe, 1960.
    

      Armatys, Barbara, Leszek Armatys, and Wiesław Stradomski. Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 2, 1930-1939.
      Warsaw: Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1988.
    

      Armatys, Leszek, and Wiesław Stradomski. Od 'Niewolnicy zmysłów' do 'Czarnych diamentów': Szkice o polskich
      filmach z lat 1914-1939. Warsaw: Centralny Ośrodek Metodyki Upowszechniania Kultury, 1988.
    

      Balcerzak, Władysław. Przemysł filmowy w Polsce. Warsaw: Drukarnia Zrzeszenia Samorządów Powiatowych,
      1928.
    

      Banaszkiewicz, Władysław, and Witold, eds. Historia filmu polskiego: Tom 1, 1895-1929. Warsaw:
      Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1966.
    

      Belmont, Leo. "Hołd kinematografowi." In Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów, 22-24.
    

      Beylin, Stefania. A jak to było, opowiem. . . . Warsaw: Filmowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1958.
    

        . Na taśmie wspomnień. Warsaw: Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1962.
    

        , ed. Nowiny i nowinki filmowe, 1896-1939. Warsaw: Wydawnictwa
      Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1973.
    

      Biel, Urszula. Śląskie kina między wojnami, czyli przyjemność upolityczniona. Katowice: "Śląsk" Sp.
      z.o.o., Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 2002.
    

      Bocheńska, Jadwiga, ed. Polska myśl filmowa do roku 1939. Wrocław: Wydawnictwo Polskiej Akademii Nauk,
      1974.
    

        , ed. Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów z lat 1898-1939. Wrocław:
      Wydawnictwo Polskiej Akademii Nauk, 1975.
    

        . "Portrety na szklonych emaliach—Nieznany tekst Bolesława Matuszewskiego." In
      Lemann-Zajíček, Polska kultura filmowa do 1939 roku, 244-50.
    

      Bottomore, Stephen. "Dreyfus and Documentary." Sight and Sound 53, no. 4 (1984): 290-93.
    

      Brun, Leon. "Zabójstwo Niemej Muzy, czyli pierworodny grzech 'Talkiesów'" Kino, September 20, 1931, 13.
    

        . "Kino nie powinno jątrzyć antagonizmów narodowych: Pożądany zwrot w sprawie
      filmów antypolskich w Niemczech." Kino dla wszystkich, June 1, 1927, 1.
    

        . "Rewolucja talkiesów jest groźbą dla kina."
      Kino, January 18, 1931, 3.
    

        . "Spojrzenie na świat przez ekran." In Mniszkówna . . . i co dalej w
      polskim kinie? Wybór tekstów z czasopism filmowych dwudziestolecia międzywojennego, edited by Barbara
      Gierszewska, 44-50. Kielce: Wydawnictwo Akademii Świętokrzyskiej, 2001.
    

        . "Sztuka filmowa wobec religji." Kino dla wszystkich, December 15,
      1927, 1.
    

      Bystroń, Jan Stanisław. "Socjologia kina." In Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów, 96-100.
    

      Cękalski, Eugeniusz. "A . . . B . . . C . . . taśmy filmowej." In Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia
      tekstów, 180-95.
    

      Coates, Paul. "Karol Irzykowski: Apologist of the Inauthentic Art." New German Critique: An Interdisciplinary
      Journal of German Studies 42 (Fall 1987): 113-15.
    

      Czeczot-Gawrak, Zbigniew. Zarys dziejów teorii filmu pierwszego pięćdziesięciolecia, 1895-1945. Wrocław:
      Wydawnictwo Polskiej Akademii Nauk, 1977.
    

      Dąbrowski, Tadeusz. "Kinematograf i kinetofon." In Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów,
      65-69.
    

        . "Teatr . . . Głuchoniemych." In Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia
      tekstów, 49-64.
    

      Elsaesser, Thomas, with Adam Barker, eds. Early Cinema: Space, Frame, Narrative. London: British Film
      Institute, 1990.
    

      Fishman, Shikl, ed. Shtudyes vegn yidn in poyln, 1918-1939. New York: YIVO Institute for Jewish
      Research, 1974.
    

      Ford, Charles, and Robert Hammond. Polish Film: A Twentieth Century History. Jefferson, N.C.: McFarland,
      2005.
    

      Fuks, Stanisław. Kazimierz Prószyński: Monografia bibliograficzna, 1881-1975. Warsaw: Filmoteka Polska,
      1980.
    

      Gierszewska, Barbara. Czasopiśmiennictwo filmowe w Polsce. Kielce: Wyższa Szkoła Pedagogiczna im. Jana
      Kochanowskiego, 1995.
    

        . Kino: Czasopiśmiennictwo filmowe w Polsce do 1939 roku. Kielce:
      Wyższa Szkoła Pedagogiczna, 1995.
    

        . Kino i film we Lwowie do 1939 roku. Kielce: Wydawnictwo Akademii
      Świętokrzyskiej, 2006
    

        , ed. Mniszkówna . . . i co dalej w polskim kinie? Wybór tekstów z czasopism
      filmowych dwudziestolecia międzywojennego. Kielce: Wydawnictwo Akademii Świętokrzyskiej, 2001.
    

      Giżycki, Marcin. Awangarda wobec kina: Film w kręgu polskiej awangardy artystycznej dwudziestolecia
      międzywojennego. Warsaw: Wydawnictwo Małe, 1996.
    

        . "Film w kręgu polskiej awangardy dwudziestolecia międzywojennego." In Film
      awangardowy w Polsce i na świecie, edited by Ryszard W. Kluszczyński, 77-114. Łódź: Łódzki Dom Kultury,
      1989.
    

        . Walka o film artystyczny w międzywojennej
      Polsce. Warsaw: Państwowe Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 1989.
    

      Godzic, Wiesław, ed. The Jagiellonian University Film Studies. Kraków: Universitas, 1996.
    

      Goldberg, Judith N. Laughter through Tears: The Yiddish Cinema. East Brunswick, N.J.: Associated
      University Presses, Inc., 1983.
    

      Goldman, Eric A. Visions, Images, and Dreams: Yiddish Film Past and Present. Ann Arbor: University of
      Michigan Research Press, 1983.
    

      Gross, Natan. Film żydowski w Polsce. Kraków: Rabid, 2002.
    

      Guzek, Mariusz. Filmowa Bydgoszcz, 1896-1939. Toruń: Dom Wydawniczy Duet, 2004.
    

      Gwóźdź, Andrzej, ed. Filmowe światy: Z dziejów X muzy na Górnym Śląsku. Katowice: "Śląsk" Sp. z.o.o.,
      Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 1998.
    

      Haltof, Marek. "Film Theory in Poland before World War II." Canadian Slavonic Papers 40, no. 1 (1998):
      67-78.
    

        . Historical Dictionary of Polish Cinema. Lanham, Md.: Scarecrow, 2007.
    

        . Polish National Cinema. New York: Berghahn Books, 2002.
    

      Helman, Alicja, ed. Publicystyka "STARTu": Wybór artykułów. Warsaw: Centralne Archiwum Filmowe, 1960.
    

      Helman, Alicja, and Wiesław Godzic, eds. Próby nowej interpretacji historii myśli filmowej. Katowice:
      Uniwersytet Sląski, 1978.
    

      Hendrykowska, Małgorzata. "Kinematograf na przełomie stuleci—W poszukiwaniu formuły rozwoju: Kilka uwag o filmie
      na ziemiach polskich przed rokiem 1908." In Lemann-Zajíček, Polska kultura filmowa do 1939 roku, 8-34.
    

        . Kronika kinematografii polskiej, 1895-1997. Poznań: Ars Nova, 1999.
    

        . Śladami tamtych cieni: Film w kulturze polskiej przelomu stuleci,
      1895-1914. Poznań: Oficyna Wydawnicza Book Service, 1993.
    

      Hendrykowska, Małgorzata, and Marek Hendrykowski. Film w Poznaniu i Wielkopolsce, 1896-1914. Poznań:
      Wydawnictwo Poznańskie, 1990.
    

      Hoberman, J. Bridge of Light: Yiddish Film between Two Worlds. New York: Museum of Modern Art and
      Schocken Books, 1991.
    

      Irzykowski, Karol. "Chwalcom lichego towaru w odpowiedzi." Wiadomości literackie, July 1925, 6.
    

        . "Co myślę o filmach dźwiękowych?" Kino, March 16, 1930, 2.
    

        . "Death of the Cinematograph," translated by Marek Hendrykowski. Film
      History 10, no. 4 (1998): 453-58.
    

        . Dziesiąta muza: Zagadnienia estetyczne kina. Warsaw: Filmowa Agencja
      Wydawnicza, 1957.
    

        . "Śmierć kinematografu?" Świat, May 24, 1913.
    

      Janicki, Stanisław. Aleksander Ford. Warsaw: Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1967.
    

        . Eugeniusz Cękalski. Warsaw: Filmowa Agencja
      Wydawnicza, 1958.
    

        . Film Polski od A do Z. Warsaw: Wydawnictwo Artystyczne i Filmowe,
      1977.
    

        . "O repertuarze kin skoczowskich w latach 1913-1914." In Gwóźdź, Filmowe
      światy, 3-15.
    

        . Polskie filmy fabularne, 1902-1988. Warsaw: Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i
      Filmowe, 1990.
    

        . W starym polskim kinie. Warsaw: Krajowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1985.
    

      Jedlicz, Józef. "Teatr i kino." In Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tekstów, 127-31.
    

      Jewsiewicki, Władysław. Historia filmowej sztuki aktorskiej okresu niemego. Łódź: Państwowa Wyższa
      Szkoła Teatralna i Filmowa im. L. Schillera, 1959.
    

        . Historia filmu polskiego: Wprowadzenie do historii polskiej
      kinemato-grafii, 1894-1939. Łódź: Państwowa Wyższa Szkoła Teatralna i Filmowa im. L. Schillera, 1959.
    

        . Materiały do dziejów filmu w Polsce. Warsaw: Panstwowy Instytut
      Sztuki, 1952.
    

        . Polska kinematografia w okresie filmu dżwiękowego, 1930-1939. Łódź:
      Łódzkie Towarzystwo Naukowe, 1967.
    

        . Polska kinematografia w okresie filmu niemego, 1895-1929/1930. Łódź:
      Łódzkie Towarzystwo Naukowe, 1966.
    

        . Z dziejów polsko-radzieckiej współpracy filmowej, 1917-1977. Warsaw:
      Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1979.
    

      Jezierski, W. "Film dźwiękowy jest wielkim wynalazkiem, ale. . . ." Kino, October 26, 1930, 13.
    

      Kluszczyński, Ryszard W., ed. Film awangardowy w Polsce i na świecie. Łódź: Łódzki Dom Kultury, 1989.
    

      Kot, Wiesław. Dzieje filmu polskiego: Od pierwszych projekcji do międzynarodowych nagród filmowych.
      Poznań: Podsiedlik-Raniowski i Spółka, 1999.
    

      Krajewska, Hanna. Życie filmowe Łodzi w latach 1896-1939. Warsaw: Polskie Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 1992.
    

      Krzemiński, Antoni. "Jak powstał pierwsze kino w Polsce." Pamphlet. Filmoteka Narodowa, II 18582, Warsaw.
    

      Kubala, Krystyna. "Początki życia filmowego na ziemi rybnicko-wodzisławskiej i Raciborszczyźnie." In Gwóźdź,
      Filmowe światy, 27-42.
    

      Kumor, Aleksander. Karol Irzykowski teoretyk filmu. Warsaw: Wydawnictwo Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1965.
    

      Lemann-Zajíček, Jolanta. "Instytucjonalizacja filmowego życia społecznego w II Rzeczypospolitej (1918-1939)." In
      Lemann-Zajíček, Polska kultura filmowa do 1939 roku, 55-80.
    

        , ed. Polska kultura filmowa do 1939 roku. Łódź: Państwowa Wyższa
      Szkoła Filmowa, Telewizyjna i Teatralna, 2003.
    

Lewandowski, Jan F. Kino na pograniczu: Wędrówki po dziejach filmu na Górnym
      Śląsku. Katowice: "Śląsk" Sp. z.o.o., Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 1998.
    

      Łukowski, Maciej. Polski film etnograficzny. Warsaw: Ludowa Spółdzielnia Wydawnicza, 1987.
    

      Madej, Alina. Mitologie i konwencje: O polskim kinie fabularnym dwudziestolecia międzywojennego. Kraków:
      Universitas, 1994.
    

        . "Przedwojenne kino polskie—Warunki popularności." In Nurczyńska-Fidelska and
      Batko, W stulecie kina, 7-16.
    

      Majewski, Jerzy S. Warszawa nieodbudowana: Lata trzydzieste. Warsaw: Agencja Wydawnicza Veda, 2005.
    

      Małecki, Jan M. Zarys dziejów Polski, 1864-1939. Kraków: Wydawnictwo Znak, 1991.
    

      Marczewski, Antoni. Cenzura teatralna i kinematograficzna. Warsaw: Nakładem Księgarni F. Hoesicka, 1925.
    

      Maśnicki, Jerzy, and Kamil Stępan. Pleograf: Słownik biograficzny filmu polskiego, 1896-1939. Kraków:
      Staromiejska Oficyna Wydawnicza, 1996.
    

      Mazierska, Ewa, and Elżbieta Ostrowska. Women in Polish Cinema. New York: Berghahn, 2006.
    

      Miazek, Ryszard. Przemineło z radiem: Opowieść o Zygmuncie Chamcu—Założycielu i pierwszym dyrektorze
      Polskiego Radia. Rzeszów: Wyższa Szkoła Informatyki i Zarządzania z Siedzibą w Rzeszowie, 2005.
    

      Michalewicz, Kazimierz St. Polskie rodowody filmu: Narodziny masowego zjawiska. Warsaw: Wydawnictwa
      Nieperiodyczne PAE, 1998.
    

      Miczka, Tadeusz. "Cinema as Optic Poetry: On Attempts to Futurize the Cinematograph in Poland of the 1920s and
      1930s." Canadian Slavonic Papers 40, no. 1 (1998): 1-15.
    

        . "Kino jako poezja optyczna: Próby futurizacji kinematografu w polsce w latach
      1918-1939." In Kino-film: Poezja optyczna? Edited by Jan Trzynadlowski, 5-29. Wrocław: Uniwersytet
      Wrocławski, 1995.
    

        . "Mitologia ojczyzny i kompleksy narodowe w polskim filmie fabularnym." In
      Nurczyńska-Fidelska and Batko, W stulecie kina, 63-79.
    

      Mirandola, Franciszek Pik. "Dom zapomnienia." Ekran: Organ przemysłu kinematograficznego, March 20,
      1920, 1-2.
    

      Musser, Charles. The Emergence of Cinema: The American Screen to 1907. Berkeley: University of
      California Press, 1990.
    

      Nowak-Zaorska, Irena. Polski film oświatowy w okresie międzywojennym. Wrocław: Zakład Narodowy im.
      Ossolińskich, 1969.
    

      Nurczyńska-Fidelska, Ewelina, and Zbigniew Batko, eds. W stulecie kina: Sztuka filmowa w Polsce. Łódź:
      Centralny Gabinet Edukacji Filmowej Dzieci i Młodzieży, 1996.
    

      Orr, John, and Elżbieta Ostrowska, eds. The Cinema of Andrzej Wajda: The Art of Irony and Defiance.
      London: Wallflower Press, 2003.
    

Ozimek, Stanisław. Film polski w wojennej potrzebie. Warsaw: Państwowy Instytut
      Wydawniczy, 1974.
    

      Paskin, Sylvia, ed. When Joseph Met Molly: A Reader on Yiddish Film. Nottingham: Five Leaves
      Publications, 1999.
    

      Peiper, Tadeusz. "Ku specyficzności kina." In Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tektstów,
      119-23.
    

      Perzyński, Włodzimierz. "Tryumf kinematografu" In Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia tektstów,
      19-21.
    

      Piątkowski, Bohdan. Jarmark X muzy: Film polski w latach 1900-1945. Łódź: Wydawnictwo Łódzkie, 1975.
    

      Pobóg-Malinowski, Władysław. Najnowsza historia polityczna Polski: Tom Drugi, 1914-1939. Gdańsk: Oficyna
      Wydawiczna Graf, 1990.
    

      Pogoń-Ślizowski, Juljusz. "Film dźwiękowy." Kinoświat, no. 6 (1930): 10.
    

      Rothschild, Joseph. Pilsudski's Coup d'Etat. New York: Columbia University Press, 1966.
    

      Sieradzka, Danuta. "Z akt filmowych Archiwum Państwowego w Katowicach." In Gwóźdź, Filmowe światy,
      43-51.
    

      Słonimski, Antoni. Kroniki tygodniowe, 1927-1931. Warsaw: Wydawnictwo LTW, 2001.
    

        . Kroniki tygodniowe, 1927-1939. Edited by Władysław Kopaliński.
      Warsaw: Państwowy Instytut Wydawniczy, 1956.
    

      Stępowski, Marian. "Wszechwładztwo kinematografu." In Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia
      tektstów, 84-95.
    

      Ślusarek, Magdalena. "Spory wokół Kinoteatru Miejskiego w Białej." In Gwóźdź, Filmowe światy, 16-26.
    

      Tambor, Jolanta, and Romuald Cudak, eds. Kultura Polska: Silva rerum. Katowice: "Śląsk" Sp. z.o.o.,
      Wydawnictwo Naukowe, 2002.
    

      Toeplitz, Jerzy. Historia sztuki filmowej: Tom trzeci, 1928-1933. Warsaw: Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i
      Filmowe, 1959.
    

        . Historia sztuki filmowej: Tom czwarty, 1934-1939. Warsaw: Wydawnictwa
      Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1969.
    

      Tomaszewski, Jerzy. Ojczyzna nie tylko Polaków: Mniejszości narodowe w Polsce w latach 1918-1939.
      Warsaw: Młodzieżowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1985.
    

      Trystan, Leon. "Fotogeniczność (Próba analizy psychologicznej)." In Bocheńska, Polska myśl filmowa: Antologia
      tektstów, 109-11.
    

        . "Kino jako muzyka wzrokowa (Estetyka kinematografu)." In Bocheńska, Polska
      myśl filmowa: Antologia tektstów, 112-15.
    

      Trzynadlowski, Jan, ed. Kino-film: Poezja optyczna? Wrocław: Uniwersytet Wrocławski, 1995.
    

      Urbańczyk, Andrzej. Cyrk Edison: Pierwsze kino Krakowa, 1906-1912. Kraków: Krakowski Dom Kultury,
      Centrum Sztuki Filmowej, 1985.
    

        . Kinematograf na scenie: Pierwsze pokazy filmowe w
      Krakowie XI-XII 1896. Kraków: Krakowski Dom Kultury, Centrum Sztuki Filmowej, 1986.
    

      Wandycz, Piotr S. The Lands of Partitioned Poland, 1795-1918. Seattle: University of Washington Press,
      1996.
    

      Wyszyński, Zbigniew. Filmowy Kraków. Kraków: Wydawnictwo Literackie, 1975.
    

        , ed. Polskie kino lat 1918-1939. Warsaw: Państwowe Wydawnictwo
      Naukowe, 1980.
    

      Zahorska, Stefania. "Sprawy XI muzy." Wiadomości literackie, December 28, 1930, 1.
    

      Zajíček, Edward, ed. Film, kinematografia. Encyklopedia kultury polskiej XX wieku. Warsaw: Instytut
      Kultury, Komitet Kinematografia, 1994.
    

        . "Kilka mitów i trochę faktów. O niektórych prawnych i ekonomicznych
      uwarunkowaniach polskiego filmu w okresie międzywojennym." In Lemann-Zajíček, Polska kultura filmowa do 1939
      roku, 35-54.
    

        . Poza ekranem: Kinematografia polska, 1918-1991. Warsaw: Filmoteka
      Narodowa Wydawnictwa Artystyczne i Filmowe, 1992.
    










Index
    

      A fully searchable digital version of the select filmography, which includes a chronological list of film titles
      as well as the names of directors, producers, and production companies, is available at http://www.ohioswallow.com.
    

10% dla mnie (10% for Me), 156


ABC miłości (The ABCs of Love), 109, 155


      actualités, 18, 28, 39


      advertisements, 1, 15, 74, 89, 139, 149, 172


      aesthetics, 8, 81, 88, 100, 120


Al khet (For the Sins), 164,
      165, 166, 174


      Andrzejewska, Jadwiga, 162, 177


      Angel-Engelówna, Stanisława, 163


      Ansky, S. (Shloyme-Zanvl ben Aaron Hacohen Rappoport), 180


Antek Policmajster (Antek the Police Chief), 108, 110


      anti-Semitism, 7, 41-42, 74-75, 169-74, 178, 182. See also discrimination
    

Antoś pierwszy raz w Warszawie (Antoś in Warsaw for the First Time), 38


      Apollo, 48, 132, 167


Apteka (The Pharmacy), 149


      Argus, 67


      Arkadia, 49


      Arlen, Richard, 106


      Armatys, Leszek, 139, 140, 141, 145


      Arnsztejn, Marek. See Marek, Andrzej (Marek Arnsztejn)
    

      Art and Culture, Ministry of, 70,
      72


      Asch, Sholem, 45


      Association of Film Industrialists, 111, 112


      Association of Unions of Motion Picture Theaters, 134


      Atlantyk, 127, 167


August Mocny (King August the Strong), 172


      Austro-Hungarian Empire, 1, 4-5, 7-9, 13, 15, 175


      —exhibition in, 24, 48


      —production in, 43-45


      authenticity in cinema, 1, 22-23, 32-36, 41-42, 58, 69, 101, 120, 131, 138-39, 184, 187


      avant-garde movement, 86, 112-13, 124


      Awangarda, 112, 144, 151


      Bagiński, Adolf. See Dymsza (Bagiński), Adolf
    

Barbara Radziwiłłówna, 160,
      161, 162, 167


      barkers (lecturers), 24


      Barszczewska, Elżbieta, 162


Battleship Potemkin, 85


      Batycka, Zofia, 111, 185


      Bednarczyk, Antoni, 38, 71, 114


      Belarus, 5, 10, 31


      Belmont, Leo, 50, 55, 112, 185


      Benita, Ina, 179, 185


Bestia (The Beast), 60


Beton (Concrete), 151


      Beylin, Stefania, 24, 110


      Beyrow, Wilhelm, 53


Bez końca (No End), 187


Będzie lepiej (Things Will Get Better), 155


      Białoborski, Eustachy, 57


      Biegański, Wiktor, 37, 45, 66, 70, 72, 73, 77, 81, 95, 111


      Biel, Urszula, 53, 129, 130, 133, 134, 173


      Bielsko-Biała, 130


      Bilski, Ryszard, 79


      Biograf Polski, 66


      BioPleograf, 27


      Bioscop, 18, 20, 24


Blanc et noir (Black and White), 66


      Blaustein, Leopold, 54, 55


      Blok-Muza-Film, 140, 156, 160


      Błażejowski, Aleksander, 83


Bocheńska, Jadwiga, 54


      Bock, Jerzy, 172


      Bodo, Eugeniusz, 84, 107, 156, 177, 178, 185


      Bogda, Maria, 84, 132, 142, 157


      Boguszewska, Helena, 178


      Bohdziewicz, Antoni, 145, 156, 185


      Bojm, Henryk, 83, 95, 98, 180


Bolek i Lolek (Bolek and Lolek), 109, 155


      Bolesławski (Szrednicki), Ryszard, 70, 71


      Bossak, Jerzy, 112, 185


      Bottomore, Stephen, 23


      Bow, Clara, 106


      Bożyk, Maks, 175


Bóg, człowiek i szatan (God, Man, and Devil), 38


Bóg zemsty (God of Vengeance), 45


      Bredschneider, Bruno, 78


brivele der mamen, A (A Short Letter to Mother), 175


      Brodniewicz, Franciszek, 163,
      185


      Brodzisz, Adam, 111, 139, 140, 142, 157


Bromberger Tageblatt (Bromberg Daily), 30


      Broncel, Zdzisław, 178


      Bruczówna, Helena, 60


      Brun, Leon, 112, 116-18, 182-85


      Brylski, Ryszard, 187


      Brzeski, Janusz Maria, 151


      Brzezińska, Hanna, 163


      Brzozowski, Stanisław, 56


Budowa Muzeum Narodowego (Building the National Museum), 88


Budujemy (We Are Building), 148


Bunt krwi i żelaza (Revolt of Blood and Iron), 88


Buty (Boots), 151


      Bydgoszcz, 5


      —exhibition in, 16-17, 19, 20, 31, 46, 48, 52, 133, 169, 182


      —in film, 153


      —production in, 74-76


      Bystroń, Jan Stanisław, 55, 63


Carat i jego sługi (The Tsarist Regime and Its Servants), 61


Car Dymitr Samozwaniec (The False Dmitri), 75


Carska faworyta (The Tsar's Favorite), 61


      Casino, 107, 132, 167


      Catholic Church, 4, 71, 142, 168-70, 183


      Catholicism. See Catholic Church
    

      CBF. See Central Film Agency (CBO)
    

      censorship, 64, 65, 74, 76, 77, 87, 89, 100, 127, 131, 133, 134, 153, 159, 186


      Central Authority of the Film Industry, 159


      Central Film Agency (CBO), 71,
      87, 118, 159


      Cękalska, Janina, 176


      Cękalski, Eugeniusz, 55, 88, 145, 146, 147, 148, 152, 171, 176


      Chaberski, Emil, 82


      Chałupiec, Apolonia. See Negri, Pola (Apolonia Chałupiec)
    

Cham (The Boor), 138


      Chamiec, Zygmunt, 169, 170


      Chomette, Henri, 106


      Cieszyń, 129, 130


      cinematograph, 14, 15, 18, 29, 32, 52


      Cinématographe, 1, 14-17, 22, 27, 92


      circuses, 16, 18-22, 51-52


      Clair, René, 146


      class (socioeconomic), 5, 22-26, 31, 47, 49, 63, 92, 161


      comedy films
    

      —silent, 27-28, 37-38, 43, 56


      —sound, 108, 141, 155-57, 165, 167, 175


      communism, 153


C.O.P. Stalowa Wola (Central Industrial Complex Stalowa Wola), 151


      Corso, 75


Cud nad Wisłą (Miracle on the Vistula), 9, 71


      Curie-Skłodowska, Marie, 153


      Cybulski, Mieczysław, 163, 185


      Cyrk Edison, 49


Czas (Time), 15


Czerwiec (June), 148


Czerwony błazen (The Red Clown), 83


Cześć Tereska (Hi, Tessa), 187


      Częstochowa, 19, 46, 142, 144, 167


Czy Lucyna to dziewczyna? (Is Lucyna a Girl?), 156


      Dabert, Dobrochna, 29, 132, 159


      Dan (Daniłowski), Władysław, 166


Dangerous Curves, 106


      Daniłowski, Gustaw, 88, 166


      Daniłowski, Władysław. See Dan (Daniłowski), Władysław
    

Dąbrowski, Tadeusz, 55, 56, 57


Dekalog (The Decalogue), 187


      Deneuve, Catherine, 186


      Depkin, 87


      Dębicki, Zdzisław, 114


Diabelski most (The Devilish Bridge), 75


      Diana-Film, 81


dibuk, Der (The Dybbuk), 166, 179, 180, 181, 182, 183


      discrimination
    

      —anti-German, 7, 17, 30, 56, 74-77, 118, 128-35


      —anti-Jewish, 5, 7, 41-42, 74, 153, 169-75, 178, 182


      —anti-Polish, 5, 31, 54, 65, 137, 172


      —anti-Russian, 61, 86, 141, 173


Dla Ciebie, Polsko (For You, Poland), 69, 71


Dla szczęścia kraju (For the Country's Happiness), 87


      Dmowski, Roman, 7


Dni (Days), 113


Doctor's Secret, The, 111


      documentary films, 56, 145


      —silent, 28, 40, 43-45, 61, 71, 76


      —sound, 75, 146, 151-54, 167, 168


Dodek na froncie (Dodek on the Front Lines), 109


      Dołęga-Mostowicz, Tadeusz, 157,
      185


      Dorosh, Julian, 154, 159


Double vie de Véronique, La (The Double Life of Veronique), 187


      Doublier, Francis, 23


Dramat wieży mariackiej (The Story of the Mariacki Church Tower), 45


      Dreher, Julian, 29


      Dreyfus, Alfred, 23


Droga młodych (Children Must Laugh), 153


      Dromlewiczowa, Zofia, 114


      dubbing, 106, 131, 174


      DuPont, Eugène Joachim, 1, 15, 32, 35, 136


Dwa dni w raju (Two Days in Paradise), 156


Dwaj ludzie z szafą (Two Men and a Wardrobe), 150


Dwanaście krzeseł (The Twelve Chairs), 108, 167


Dwie urny (Two Ballot Boxes), 72


      Dworkowski, Władysław, 75


      Dymsza (Bagiński), Adolf, 84,
      108, 155


Dzieje grzechu (The Story of Sin), 38, 87, 114, 166


Dziennik bydgoski (Bydgoszcz Daily), 46, 52, 53, 74, 182


Dzieciąta muza (The Tenth Muse) (Irzykowski), 2, 55-62, 119, 120, 173


Dziesięciu z Pawiaka (The Ten from Pawiak Prison), 141


Dziewczęta z Nowolipek (The Girls of Nowolipki), 161, 162, 164


Dzikie pola (Wild Fields), 143


Dziś mamy bal (Tonight There's a Dance), 151


      Dżigan, Szymon, 165


      Edelman, Paweł, 186


      Edison, Thomas Alva, 14, 15, 18, 28, 56, 57


      educational films, 43, 44, 68, 73, 87, 90, 125, 148, 153, 167


Edukacja Bronki (Educating Bronka), 42


      Eisenstein, Sergei, 85, 146


Ekran (Screen), 63,
      73, 112


Ekran i scena (Screen and Stage), 44, 111


      Emmer, Maksymilian, 154


      England, 28, 91


      —imported films, 30


      English language, 116, 129-30


      entertainment districts, 20, 47, 49, 51, 167, 168


      Epstein, Jean, 59


      Esperanto, 7, 116, 135, 184


      Estefilm, 66


      Eubich, Edmund. See Gasiński (Eubich), Edmund
    

Europa, 149, 151


f.a., 176


      Fairbanks, Douglas, 117


      Falanga, 67


      Fama, 165, 168, 174


      Feniks, 49, 180


      Fertner, Antoni, 37, 38, 43, 59


      Filmia, 116


      Film Institute, 81


      Filmmakers' Cooperative (SAF), 176,
      178, 185


Film naies (Film News), 113


      Film Polski, 82, 185


Film polski (Polish Film), 67, 73, 104, 112


      film schools, 64, 81, 150, 185


Film velt (Film World), 98,
      113


      Film-Vog, 170


Film zeitung (Film Newspaper), 113


      finance, 82, 101, 105, 106, 125-26, 149, 171


      Finkelstein, Henryk, 37, 42, 43, 86, 118, 169


      fires in motion picture theaters, 48


      Fitelberg, Grzegorz, 110


      Flanz, Marta, 107, 108, 156


      Forbert, Adolf, 172, 176


      Forbert, Leo, 78, 82, 83, 97


      Forbert-Film, 81, 83, 98


      Ford, Aleksander (Moyshe Lipshutz), 84, 87, 88, 145, 151-53, 160, 168, 176-79, 185


      Foreign Affairs, Ministry of, 70,
      134, 159


For the Good and the Beautiful, 159


      Fostel, Symche, 175


      Foundation for National Culture, 148, 160


Fragmenty z Gdańska (Fragments from Gdańsk), 88


      France, 1, 28, 29, 32, 35, 60, 91, 94, 107, 131, 154, 183


      —coproductions, 153


      —imported films, 17, 50, 106, 118, 145, 169


      French language, 17, 33, 116


Freylekhe kaptsonim (Jolly Paupers), 165, 166


      Fritsche, Ludwik, 107


      Fuks, Marian, 37, 47


Gabby złote łóżko (Gabby's Golden Bed), 75


      Gabryelski, Jerzy, 151


      Galewski, Józef, 51


      Galician Tourism Association, 44


Galicja w kinematografie (Galicia in Film), 44


      Gallone, Soava, 59


      Gambino, Domenico, 76


      Gantkowski, Romuald, 170


      Garbo, Greta, 106


      Gardan, Juliusz, 84, 88, 141, 145, 155, 163, 169, 185


      Gasiński (Eubich), Edmund, 70


      Gaumont, Léon, 28


      Gdańsk, 5, 10, 53, 68, 76, 134, 153


      German, Juliusz, 82


      German Empire, 7, 9, 29-30, 31


      German language, 4-5, 16-17, 30-31, 50-57, 74, 116, 123, 128-30


      Germany, 9, 59-61, 74-75, 107, 120, 122-23, 128, 138-39, 154, 171-72


      —coproduction in, 40, 65, 75-76, 159-60


      —imported equipment and films, 17,
      30, 50-57, 65, 68-69, 75-77, 91, 118, 127, 133-34, 170


      Gierszewska, Barbara, 112, 113


      Giewontfilm, 72


      Ginzburg, Samuel, 37, 42


      Gize, Jan, 57


      Gliński, Robert, 187


Głos prawdy (Voice of Truth), 112


Głos pustyni (The Voice of the Desert), 157


Głos rzeszowski (Voice of Rzeszów), 56


Głuche drogi (Deaf Roads), 151


      Gniazdowski, Zbigniew, 93


      Goetel, Ferdynand, 93, 140, 142, 185


      Gojawiczyńska, Pola, 161


      Golcz, Jadwiga, 29


Goniec wieczorny (Evening Dispatch), 49


      Gordin, Jacob (Zalmen Libin), 38,
      43, 165


      Gorzechowski, Jan, 140


      Goskind, Saul, 164, 165, 172, 174


      Gotlib, Helena, 43


Gots shtrof (God's Punishment), 43


Granica (The Line), 161,
      162, 167


      Great Depression, 10


      Great Emigration, 6


      Green, Joseph (Józef Grinberg), 87,
      136, 172, 174, 175, 179


      Green-Film, 172, 175


      Grinberg, Józef. See Green, Joseph (Józef Grinberg)
    

      Gross, Natan, 41, 66, 78, 99, 100, 101, 171, 172


      Grossówna, Helena, 156


      Grottger, Artur, 161


Grzeszna miłość (Sinful Love), 87, 169


      Grzybowski, Aleksander, 73


      Guazzoni, Enrico, 46


      Guzek, Mariusz, 17, 31, 52, 74, 75, 168


Halka, 43, 129, 133, 167


Hallo, radio (Hello, Radio), 148


Hasa die yesome (Hasa the Orphan), 38


      Hasidim, 38, 98, 100


      Hauschild, Maksymilian, 75


Haynt (Today), 101, 113


      Hays, Will, 182


      Helenów, 18


      Hendrykowska, Małgorzata, 19, 21, 22, 23, 30, 31, 38, 52, 67, 76, 77, 155


      Hendrykowski, Marek, 19, 38, 67, 76, 77


      Heros, 107


      Herszfinkel, Maurycy, 107


      Hertz, Aleksander, 37-42, 46-47, 51, 60, 65, 69-70, 79-86, 93, 97


Heut spielt der Strauss (Strauss, the Waltz King), 130


      Heymanowa, Stefania, 114


      Hirszbejn, Maria, 79, 83, 84, 85, 185


      historical films, 18, 26, 62, 69, 73, 92, 95, 98, 138, 139, 141, 155


      Hitler, Adolf, 10, 134, 160, 171, 172, 173


      Holender, Adam, 186


      Hollywood, 98, 103, 116, 118, 122, 123, 157


      Holzer, Rokhl, 164


      Hucul, 44, 154


Huragan (The Hurricane), 95


      identity, 11, 16-17, 35, 129, 187


      Idziak, Sławomir, 186


Ilustrirter magazin (Illustrated Magazine), 113


Ilustrowany kurier codzienny (Illustrated Daily Courier), 53


      Iluzjon, 38


      imports
    

      —equipment, 19, 28, 30, 117, 133


      —films, 48, 51, 65, 68, 90, 91, 106, 115, 117, 120, 123, 130, 133


In di poylisher velder (In the Polish Woods), 83, 92, 98, 99, 100, 101


      Industry and Trade, Ministry of, 159


      Ines Film, 66, 72


      Ingarden, Roman, 54


      Institute for Social Affairs, 148,
      149


inteligencja, 6, 7, 24, 25, 42, 48, 50, 51, 54, 68, 93, 115, 145, 151, 168, 182, 183


      Internal Affairs, Ministry of, 65,
      76, 87, 125


      International Catholic Bureau of Cinema, 168


      intertitles, 25, 39, 41, 48, 51-53, 55, 74-77, 98, 128-33, 140, 152, 173


      Irzykowski, Karol, 81, 113, 135, 147, 185


      —law of the looking glass, 2-4,
      12, 29, 46, 85, 92-94, 101, 176


      —The Tenth Muse, 34, 55-62, 173


      —"What Do I Think about Sound Films?" 120


      itinerant exhibition, 8, 25, 77, 127, 137, 167, 175


      itinerant exhibitors, 1, 13, 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 31, 32, 136


      Iwaszkiewicz, Jarosław, 176


Iwonka, 82, 94


      Jabłonkówna, Leonia, 113, 114


      Jahoda, Mieczysław, 186


      Jakimowski, Andrzej, 187


Jak powstaje film (How a Film Is Made), 148


Jak powstaje samolot (How an Airplane Is Built), 88


Jak to było (How It Happened), 70


      Jakubowska, Wanda, 145, 176, 185


      Janicki, Stanisław, 18, 24, 49, 50, 146


Janko muzykant (Janko the Musician), 110


      January Uprising of 1863, 6, 89, 95, 98


      Jaracz, Stefan, 160, 185


      Jaraczówna, Hanna, 162


jarmark (kitsch), 21, 22, 61


      Jarosz, Jan, 151


      Jasielski, Aleksander, 59


      Jasieński, Bruno, 113


      Jastrzębski, Konstanty, 37


Jazz Singer, The, 103,
      132


      Jeannot, Leon, 165


      Jedlicz (Kopuściński), Józef, 25


Jego wielka miłość (His Great Love), 160


      Jewsiewicki, Władysław, 28, 41, 48, 65


      Jezierski, W., 117


      Joinville, 110, 118, 123, 140


      Jolson, Al, 103


      Joselewicz, Berek, 98


Joseph in the Land of Egypt, 174


      Judaism, 142, 183


      Junosza-Stępowski, Kazimierz, 28,
      70, 71, 111, 141, 143, 185


      Jutzi, Phil, 160


      kabbalah, 6, 99, 100, 180, 181, 184


      Kacyzne, Alter, 113, 165, 180


      Kaden, Danny (Daniel Kirschenfinkel), 59, 185


      Kaiser Panorama, 17


      Kak w Paryże, 20


Kalinowska, Wanda, 114, 115


      Kamera, 143


      Kamińska, Ester Rachel, 37, 83


      Kamińska, Ida, 43, 83, 165


      Kamińska, Regina, 43


      Kamiński, Abraham Izaak, 38,
      43


      Kamiński, Kazimierz, 43, 81


      Kammer, 54


      Kantor Zjednoczonych Kinematografów, "Siła," 38, 42, 43, 51


      Kapitol, 182


Karpaccy górale (Carpathian Mountaineers), 43


      Karwowska, Hanka, 177, 178


      Kataszek, Szyman, 166, 185


katholische Jüdin, Die (The Catholic Jewess), 76


      Katowice, 10, 53, 76, 128, 129, 130, 133, 134, 153, 173


      Kazimierz Dolny, 175, 180


Każdemu wolno kochać (Anybody Can Love), 156


      Keaton, Buster, 106


      Kemmler, G., 51


Khalutzim (The Pioneers), 152


khazons tokhter, Dem (The Cantor's Daughter), 43


      Kiedrzyński, Stefan, 141


      Kieślowski, Krzysztof, 187


Kinema, 70


      Kinematograf Uniwersalny, 27


      Kinetoscope, 14, 15, 17


      Kingdom of Prussia, 1, 5


      —exhibition in, 13, 16-17, 20, 51, 128


      —production in, 38


Kino (Cinema), 112


      Kinofilm, 44, 66


      Kino-Ogród, 75


      Kinor, 164, 165


Kinoświat (Cinemaworld), 112


Kino-teatr (Cinema-Theater), 79, 112


Kino-teatr dla wszystkich (Cinema-Theater for Everyone), 79


      Kinoteatr Miejski, 130


      Kirschenfinkel, Daniel. See Kaden, Danny (Daniel Kirschenfinkel)
    

      Kisielewski, Stefan, 150


      kitsch. See jarmark (kitsch)
    

      Klio-Film, 95


      Kłosiński, Edward, 186


Kochaj tylko mnie (Love Only Me), 156


      Koerner, Józef, 39


      Kolos, 88


      Kon, Henryk (Henoch), 166, 185


      Kopuściński, Józef. See Jedlicz (Kopuściński), Józef
    

      Kornacki, Jerzy, 178


      Korzeniowski, Józef, 43


      Kosmofilm, 42, 43, 60, 86


Kościuszko pod Racławicami (Kościuszko at Racławice), 44


      Kowalski, Tadeusz, 55, 145, 149, 151


      Krajewska, Hanna, 18, 19, 20


      Kraków, 1, 5, 13, 55, 78, 112, 144, 150-51


      —exhibition in, 15-16, 19, 49, 53, 90, 92, 130, 167, 175


      —in film, 61, 153, 161


      —production in, 45


Kraków w kinematografie (Kraków in Motion Pictures), 45


      Kraskowski, Jan, 54, 73


      Kratz, Bruno, 130


      Krawicz, Mieczysław, 87, 155, 156, 160


      Kreczmar, Jan, 177, 178


      Kretschmann, Thomas, 186


      Kristal, 48, 75, 133


      Kristall-Palast, 75


      Krogulski, A., 44


      Krogulski, L., 44


Kronika powszechna (Popular Chronicle), 45


Kropka nad i (The Finishing Touch), 84


Krótki film o miłości (A Short Film about Love), 187


Krwawy terror (The Bloody Terror), 74


      Krzemiński, Antoni, 18, 19, 20, 24, 45


      Krzemiński, Władysław, 18, 19, 20, 24, 45


      Krzewiński, Julian, 43


      Krzywoszewski, Stefan, 42


      Kuc, Dariusz, 186


      Kucharski, Jan, 72, 82, 96


      Kulikivna, Sonia, 113, 154


Kult ciała (Cult of the Body), 107, 167


Kulturfilm, 134


      Kurek, Jalu, 55, 150, 151


Kurier bydgoski (Bydgoszcz Courier), 182


Kurier lubelski (Lublin Courier), 50


Kurier polski (Polish Courier), 112, 118, 149, 150


Kurier warszawski (Warsaw Courier), 27, 39, 41, 101, 112, 114


      Kutz, Kazimierz, 185


      Laborfilm, 67


Lamedvovnik (One of the 36), 95, 97


      Land, Bolesław, 6, 72, 83, 107, 133


      Landau, Samuel, 37, 43


Land unterm Kreuz (A Country under the Cross), 133


      Lanz, Marta, 83


      Lebiedziński, Piotr, 26, 27, 29


Legion ulicy (Legion of the Street), 84, 152


Leiden des oberschlesischen Volkes, Die (The Sufferings of the People of Upper Silesia), 76


      Lejtes, Józef, 75, 88, 95, 106, 132, 138, 141-44, 160-63, 169, 185


      Lemański, Jan, 50


      Lenczewski, Władysław, 66


      Lenczewski, Zbigniew, 186


      Lenkiewicz, Adam, 151


      Leo-Film, 67, 81, 83, 84, 156, 157, 180


      Leon Schiller Film School, 185


      Leopolia, 44


      Lewicki, Bolesław, 55, 151


      Libin, Zalmen. See Gordin, Jacob (Zalmen Libin)
    

      Libkow, Marek, 142, 143, 144


      Liebgold, Leon, 175, 180, 185


      Liliana, Lili, 180


      Linder, Max, 47


Linia (Line), 144,
      150


      Lipshutz, Moyshe. See Ford, Aleksander (Moyshe Lipshutz)
    

      Lissa, Zofia, 55


Literarishe bleter (Literary Pages), 113


      literary adaptations, 37-38,
      43, 67, 72, 82, 83, 87, 93, 149, 157, 167


Lokaj (The Servant), 66


      Lublin, 19, 48, 50, 153


Ludzie bez jutra (People without a Tomorrow), 65


Ludzie mroku (People of the Darkness), 78


Ludzie Wisły (The People of the Vistula), 160, 178, 179


      Lumière, Auguste, 1, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 29, 33, 137


      Lumière, Louis, 1, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 29, 33, 137


      Lumière films, 16


      Luxemburg, Rosa, 7


      Lux-Sigismond et Comp., 33


      L'viv, 5, 13, 55, 112-13, 144


      —exhibition in, 15, 19, 49, 77-78, 90, 92, 132, 151, 159


      —production in, 28-29, 43-45, 72, 151, 154, 159


      Łódź, 13, 84, 186


      —exhibition in, 18-20, 29, 48, 90-92, 175


      —in film, 153


      —production in, 45, 185


      —strikes in, 121-24


      Łuskino, Leon, 118


      Madej, Alina, 136, 137, 178


      Majewski, Jerzy S., 168


      Makowska, Helena, 59, 83


      Maliaka, Jerzy, 154


Mamele (Little Mother), 175


Manewry miłosne (Love Schemes), 156


Man with a Movie Camera, The, 152


      Manger, Itzhok, 174


      Marczak, Karol, 104


      Marczewski, Antoni, 77


      Marczewski, Kazimierz, 74, 75


      Marek, Andrzej (Marek Arnsztejn), 19,
      37, 38, 44, 67, 142, 172, 180, 185, 187


      Marten, Aleksander (Marek Tennenbaum), 164, 165, 172, 185


      Marxism, 145


      Marysieńka, 75, 133


Mascotte (Mascot), 152


      Matejko, Jan, 161


      Matuszewski, Bolesław, 18, 26, 32-36, 54, 69


      Mayblum, Zygfryd. See Mayflauer (Mayblum), Zygfryd
    

      Mayflauer (Mayblum), Zygfryd, 59,
      185


Mayn redendinger film (My Talking Film), 113


Meir Ezofowicz, 40,
      41, 42, 65


      melodramas, 84, 108, 143, 175


      Mendes, Lothar, 106


Messter, Oskar, 57


      Meteor, 78, 81, 82


      Metropol, 53


      Mettler, Leon, 19, 48


      Meyer, Joseph, 38, 175


      Mia-Mara, 59, 60


      Miazek, Ryszard, 169, 170


      Mickiewicz, Adam, 6, 29, 72, 93, 98, 99, 182


      Miczka, Tadeusz, 92-93


Mięczaki (Mollusks), 88


      Military Affairs, Ministry of, 70,
      159


      ministries, government. See specific ministries


      Mirandola, Franciszek Pik, 69,
      73


Mirele Efros, 38


      Mirska, Maria, 37


      Młoda Polska (Young Poland), 8,
      56, 57, 93


Młody las (The Young Forest), 141, 161


      Mniszkówna, Helena, 82, 163


      modernity, 2, 22, 23, 49, 87


      Modzelewski, Eugeniusz, 59, 66


moment, Der (Moment), 113


      Moniuszko, Stanisław, 43


Moralność pani Dulskiej (The Morality of Pani Dulska), 107, 108, 132, 167


      Morewski, Abram, 164, 180


      Morgenstern, Janusz, 185


      Mosdorf, Teodor, 79


      Munk, Andrzej, 185


      Münz, Marek, 44


      musical films, 107-8, 128, 135, 155, 156-57, 174-75


      Muza, 44


      mysticism, 3, 6, 99-101, 179-84


Nad Niemnem (On the Niemen River), 176


Nad ranem (At Dawn), 151


      Nałkowska, Zofia, 161


Narodziny i życie gazety (The Birth and Life of a Newspaper), 152


      Narutowicz, Gabriel, 9


Na Sybir (To Siberia), 139, 140


Nasza scena i ekran (Our Stage and Screen), 112


Nasz przegląd (Our Review), 99, 100


      National Democratic Party, 7,
      159


      nationalism, 6-8, 28, 35, 48, 53, 67, 115, 139-41, 154, 168-70, 178, 184. See also patriotic films
    

      Negri, Pola (Apolonia Chałupiec), 42, 59, 60, 61, 148


      Neo Vox, 172


      Neuman, J. M., 180


      Newolin, Bolesław, 107


      Ney, Nora, 84, 141, 143, 157


Nie damy ziemi, skąd nasz ród (We Won't Give up the Land from Which Our Nation Came), 72


      Niemirski (Silberlast), Alfred, 39,
      46


Niewolnica miłości (The Slave of Love), 82


Niewolnica zmysłów (The Slave of Sin), 42


      Niovilla (Petekiewicz), Nina, 66,
      72


      Novarro, Ramón, 132


      Nowaczyński, Adolf, 116


      Nowak-Zaorska, Irena, 43, 153, 154


      Nowicki, Piotr, 59


      Nowina-Przybylski, Jan, 137,
      155, 156, 174, 175


      Nowości, 75, 133


      Oaza, 38, 48


Obchód 100ej rocznicy śmierci Napoleona (A Celebration on the 100th Anniversary of the Death of
      Napoleon), 70


Obchód 125-lecia powstania Kościuszki (A Celebration on the 125th Anniversary of the Kościuszko
      Uprising), 70


Obrona Częstochowy (The Defense of Częstochowa), 46


O czym marzą kobiety (What Women Want), 165


O czym się nie mówi (The Unspeakable), 82


O czym się nie myśli (The Unthinkable), 82


Odpust w Piekarach Śląskich (A Church Fair in Silesian Piekary), 154


Odrodzona Polska (Poland Reborn), 89


Odsłonięcie pomnika Adama Mickiewicza we Lwowie (Unveiling the Adam Mickiewicz Statue in L'viv),
      29


      Oeser, Franciszek Józef, 19


Ofiara namiętności (A Victim of Passion), 47


      Olsza, Tadeusz, 160


      Olympia, 47


      Opatoshu, Jozef, 83, 98, 99


      Opole, 129, 134


OR (OR), 150


      Ordyński, Ryszard, 93, 95, 110, 140, 159, 185


      Orientfilm, 71, 72


Orlę (The Little Eagle), 81


      Orzeszkowa, Eliza, 7, 40, 176


Ostatni człowiek (The Last Man), 75


      Ostoja-Sulnicki, Józef, 41, 42


Otchłań pokuty (Abysses of Penance), 81


Pagan, The, 132


Pająki (Spiders), 88


      Palast, 54


      Pałacowe, 48, 54


      Pankiv, Volodimir, 154


Panna po wojnie (A Maiden after the War), 66


      Panopticum, 14


Pan Tadeusz, 93


Pan Twardowski, 72


      Pathé Frères, 39, 44, 53


      patriotic films, 26, 37, 61, 70-72, 82, 94, 95, 129, 136-41, 154, 168, 169


      Patzer-Film, 76


      Peiper, Tadeusz, 55, 113, 150


      Perzanowska, Stanisława, 160


      Perzyński, Włodzimierz, 23, 42, 55


      Petekiewicz, Nina. See Niovilla (Petekiewicz), Nina
    

      Pezanskij, Oleksander, 154


photogénie, 59


      Photophone, 28


Pianist, The, 186


      Pichelski, Jerzy, 162, 179


      Picon, Molly, 174, 175


Piętro wyżej (The Apartment Above), 156


      Piłsudski, Józef, 7-8, 9-10, 39, 86, 89, 95, 99, 129, 133, 142, 154


      Piwowski, Marek, 187


      Plater-Zyberk, Ireneusz, 154


      Pleograf, 26, 27, 28, 29, 38


Płomienne serca (Flaming Hearts), 136, 170


      Podsadecki, Kazimierz, 151


Pod Twoją obronę (Under Your Protection), 142, 143


      Pogorzelska, Zula, 108


      Pogorzelski, Zygmunt, 17


Pogrzeb Kardynała Puzyny (The Funeral of Cardinal Puzyna), 45


Pogrzeb Stanisława Wyspiańskiego (The Funeral of Stanisław Wyspiański), 45


Pokaz tanków w Parku Sobieskiego (A Show of Tanks in Sobieski Park), 70


Polesie (The Polesie Region), 154


      Polfilm, 71, 72


Policmajster Tagiejew (Police Chief Tagiejew), 84


      Polish language, 3-11, 16-17, 21-78, 83, 87-117, 123-39, 144-59, 165, 169-72, 178, 182-86


      Polish Romantic nationalism, 6,
      35, 183


      Polish Socialist Party (PPS), 7,
      8, 9, 39, 41, 129, 140


      Polish-Soviet War of 1919-21, 9,
      68, 71, 74, 78, 94


      Polonia, 44, 66, 75, 76, 129


      Polonia-Film, 66, 75, 76


      Polonization, 129, 137, 173


      Polska Akustyka, 106


      Polska Spółka Filmowa, 170


Polskie lotnictwo (Polish Aviation), 88


      Polskie Radio, 170


      Pol-Ton-Film, 142


      Pomerania, 5, 52, 137


Pomszczona krzywda (An Avenged Injustice), 44


      Poniatowski, Józef, 70, 72


      Popławski, Jan, 26, 27


      Popławski, Józef, 26, 27


      Positivism, 7, 99


Powrót birbanta (The Return of the Merry Fellow, 28


Powrót taty (Ballada w 15 odsłonach) (Papa's Return [A Ballad in 15 Acts]), 44


      Poznań, 5, 10, 31, 67, 133, 169


      —exhibition in, 16, 20, 49, 77, 89-91, 130, 134


      —in film, 71, 89


      —production in, 39, 81, 89


      PPS. See Polish Socialist Party (PPS)
    

      Praga, 49, 98


      Praski Iluzjon, 49


Prokurator Alicja Horn (Prosecutor Alicja Horn), 157


      Prometeus, 96


      propaganda films, 30, 59, 61, 64, 69-73, 89, 93-97, 134, 154, 159, 170


Prosto z mostu (Straight from the Bridge), 170, 178


Próbny lot Warszawa-Moskwa (A Trial Flight from Warsaw to Moscow), 88


Prószyński, Kazimierz, 19, 26-29, 32, 57


      Protestant, 4


      Prus, Bolesław, 7


Pruska kultura (Prussian Culture), 38, 39


      Pruszko, Aleksander, 57


Przebudzenie (The Awakening), 168


Przedwiośnie (Before the Spring), 93


Przegląd filmowy, teatralny, radiowy (Film, Theater, and Radio Review), 112


Przegląd powszechny (Popular Review), 178


Przegląd teatralny i filmowy (Theater and Film Review), 112


Przekroje (Sections), 151


Przeor Kordecki—Obrońca Częstochowy (Abbot Kordecki—Defender of Częstochowa), 144


Przesądy (Prejudices), 42


Przestępcy (Criminals), 65


Przewodnik z Zakopanego (A Tour of Zakopane), 75


Przygody człowieka poczciwego (The Adventures of a Kind-Hearted Man), 176


Przygody pana Antoniego (The Adventures of Anton), 45


Przygody Puka (The Adventures of Puk), 151


Przypadek (Blind Chance), 187


      Ptak, Krzysztof, 186


      Puchalski, Edward, 42, 46, 59, 72, 82, 142, 143, 144, 185


      Pudovkin, Vsevolod, 146


purimshpiler, Der (The Purim Player), 175


Quo vadis? 46, 47


Rach-ciah-ciah, 151


Radio-kino-foto (Radio-Cinema-Photography), 113


      Radulski, Wacław, 151


      Rapacki, Wincenty, 43


      Rappoport, Shloyme-Zanvl ben Aaron Hacohen. See Ansky, S. (Shloyme-Zanvl ben Aaron Hacohen Rappoport)
    

      Reich, Aleksander, 59, 89, 185


Rejs (The Cruise), 187


      religion in film, 87, 96-98, 142-43, 169, 173, 176, 180-81


      Religions and Public Education, Ministry of, 159


Repulsion, 186


Requin, Le (The Shark), 106


      Residenz, 48


      Reymont, Władysław, 66, 93


      Rialto, 54, 81, 133, 168, 179


      Rodziewiczówna, Maria, 163


Rok 1863 (1863 / The Faithful River), 95


Rok 1914 (1914), 140


      Romin, Seweryn, 112


      Rotmil, Jacek, 139, 185


Róża (The Rose), 138,
      139, 160


      Różycki, Ludomir, 107


      Russia, 64, 69-72, 78, 84, 86, 93-98, 108, 139-41, 153, 173, 177


      Russian Empire, 1, 4, 5, 8, 13, 16, 17, 23, 24, 31, 33, 35, 40, 59, 72, 98


      —exhibition and production in, 45


      —in film, 61, 69, 71, 72, 78, 84, 86, 92, 94, 98, 139, 140


      Rybczyński, Zbigniew, 186


      Rybicka, Natalia, 187


      Rymofilm, 144


      Rzeszów, 19, 56


Sabra (The Pioneers), 152


      SAF. See Filmmakers' Cooperative (SAF)
    

Salve Regina, 154


      Samborski, Bogusław, 111, 169


sanacja, 10, 86, 129, 133


      Sawan, Zbigniew, 84


Sąd Boży (God's Trial), 47


Sceny ludowe w Polsce (Folk Scenes in Poland), 33


      Schiller, Leon, 110, 166, 185


      Schlechter, Emanuel, 156


      Schwarz, Meyer, 175


      screenplays, 60, 67, 71, 78, 81, 83, 110, 113, 124, 141, 167


      SDKP (Social Democratic Party), 7


      Sebel, Stanisław, 37, 38, 39, 43, 59, 185


      Sektor, 164, 171, 172


Serce na ulicy (A Heart on the Street), 141, 166


      Sfinks, 39-43, 46-47, 51, 59-62, 64-66, 69-71, 79-87, 89, 110, 143, 159, 169


shikhte, Di (The Slaughter), 43


shtifmuter, Di (The Stepmother), 43


Shylock von Krakau (Shylock from Kraków), 45


      Sienkiewicz, Henryk, 46, 110


Sieradzka, Danuta, 128, 129, 130


      Sieroszewski, Wacław, 139


      Sikiewicz, Bazyli, 160


      Silesia, 5, 9


      —exhibition in, 49, 52, 90, 123, 130


      —in film, 72, 75, 76


      Siła. See Kantor Zjednoczonych Kinematografów, "Siła"
    

Singing Fool, The, 103,
      132, 133


Skamander, 11, 113


      Skarbek-Malczewski, Jan, 59,
      60


      Skoczów, 49


      Skoczylas, Ludwik, 54


      Słonimski, Antoni, 68, 89, 94, 95, 106, 112-13, 118, 133, 138, 153, 169


Słowo narodowe (The National Word), 159, 178


      Smosarska, Jadwiga, 70, 71, 82, 88, 96, 139, 140, 157, 161, 185


      Social Democratic Party (SDKP), 7


      socialism, 7, 10, 39, 86, 152


      Sokół, 42, 46


      Soniafilm, 154


      Sorochko, Igor, 154


      Soviet montage, 89


      spectatorship, 25-26, 42, 48, 69, 101-2


      Splendid, 103, 131


Spokój (Calm), 187


Społem (Together), 176


Sport saneczkowy w Krakowie (Sledding in Kraków), 45


Srebny ekran (The Silver Screen), 112


      Srokowski, Mieczysław, 107


      Starewicz, Władysław (Ladislas Starevich), 45


      Star-Film, 93


      Starski, Ludwik, 166, 167


      START. See Stowarzyszenie Miłośników Filmu Artystycznego START
    

      Stebelski, Adam, 161


      Steinwurzel, Seweryn, 78, 82, 83, 84, 95, 138, 161, 162, 185


      Stern, Alicja, 160


      Stern, Anatol, 29, 93, 107, 109, 112-13, 139, 141, 149, 155, 160, 169, 175, 180


      Stępowski, Marian, 26, 55, 60


Sto metrów miłości (One Hundred Meters of Love), 108


      stop-motion film, 45, 46


      Stowarzyszenie Miłośników Filmu Artystycznego START, 135, 144-51,
      158, 176, 185


Strachy (The Ghosts), 171,
      172, 176, 178, 179, 183, 184


Straż pożarna w Krakowie (The Fire Station in Kraków), 45


      strikes, 8, 68, 90, 119, 123, 127, 138


      Strug, Andrzej (Stefan Gałecki), 93,
      109


      Stylowy, 132, 159, 167


      subtitles, 105, 116, 121, 128, 130, 131, 133, 172, 175


Sygnały (Signals), 112


Syn szatana (The Son of Satan), 78


      Syrena Record, 107


      Szajewicz, Izrael, 166


      Szaro, Henryk, 66, 83, 84, 87, 88, 93, 95, 139, 169, 180, 185


      Szczepanik, Jan, 57


      Szczuka, Mieczysław, 149


      Szekely, Stefan, 107


      Szkaradkiewicz, Wacław (Wenzel) Michał, 52, 53, 74


      Szołowski, Karol, 176


Szpieg w masce (The Masked Spy), 156


      Szpilman, Wladysław, 164, 166


      Szrednicki, Ryszard. See Bolesławski (Szrednicki), Ryszard
    

      Sztuka, 112


      Szumacher, Israel, 165


      Ślusarek, Magdalena, 130


Śmierć za życie (Death for Life), 96


Świat (World), 20, 49, 57, 112, 118


Świat filmu (World of Film), 112


Światłowid (A Trace of Light), 112


      Światowid, 100, 132, 167


Tajemnica panny Brinx (Miss Brinx's Secret), 160


Tajemnica przystanku tramwajowego (The Trolley Stop Mystery), 71


Tajemnice Nalewek (The Mysteries of Nalewki), 66, 78


Tajemnice Warszawy (The Mysteries of Warsaw), 60


      talkies, 98, 103, 109, 111-35, 179


Tamara/Obrońca Lwowa (Defender of L'viv), 72, 162


taxation, 63,
      64, 77, 87, 90, 122, 123, 126, 127, 159


Teatr (Theater), 112


      Teatr Elektryczny, 19, 50


      Teatr Elizeum-Palais d'Illusion, 28


      Teatr Union, 74


teatr żywych fotografii, 19


      Tennenbaum, Marek. See Marten, Aleksander (Marek Tennenbaum)
    

Tenth Muse, The (Irzykowski). See Dziesiąta muza (Irzykowski)
    

      Tęcza, 132


Tętno polskiego Manchesteru (The Pulse of Polish Manchester), 151, 152


      theater, 15, 22, 37, 43, 81, 104, 175


      Themerson, Franciszka, 148,
      149, 185


      Themerson, Stefan, 148, 149, 185


      theory, film, 2, 32, 54, 57, 70, 78, 88, 144-45, 148, 152, 183


      ticket prices, 20, 49, 124, 127, 131


Tkies kaf (The Wedding Vow), 83, 84, 173, 179, 180, 181


      Tobis-Klangfilm, 127, 133


      Toeplitz, Jerzy, 55, 110, 117, 145, 151, 185


      Tom, Konrad, 110, 156, 174


      Toruń, 19, 27, 71, 112, 153


      Towbin, Mordechaj, 37, 38, 39, 43, 47, 51


Tragedia Rosji i jej trzy epoki (The Tragedy of Russia and Its Three Eras), 72


      Treasury, Ministry of, 159


Trędowata (The Leper), 82,
      87, 163, 165


      Truszkowska, J., 117


      truth. See authenticity in cinema
    

      Trystan, Leon (Chaim Lejb Wagman), 55, 70, 78, 88, 156, 175, 185


Trzy etiudy Chopina (Chopin's Three Etudes), 176


      Turkow, Jonas, 83, 98


      Turkow, Ruth, 165


      Turkow, Zygmunt, 165, 175


Ty, co w ostrej świecisz bramie . . . (You, Who on the Pointed Gateway Shine), 179


Tygodnik ilustrowany (Illustrated Weekly), 27, 32, 33


      Uciecha, 73


      Ukniewska, Maria, 176


      Ukraine, 6, 9-10, 72, 132


      —in film, 71, 154


      Ukrainian language, 4-5, 9-11, 112-13, 159


Ułani, ułani, chłopcy malowani (Uhlans, Uhlans), 155


unbekanter, Der (The Stranger), 43


      Union of Motion Picture Theaters, 90


      Union of Polish Film Producers, 83,
      159


      Union of Producers of Short Films, 154


      United States, 8, 10, 67, 86, 93, 95, 121-22, 154, 158, 165, 175, 182


      —coproduction in, 74, 110


      —imported equipment and films, 17,
      50, 68, 90-91, 103, 106, 118, 123, 128-36, 171


      Urania-Film, 156


      Urbanowicz, Stanisław, 161


      Urbańczyk, Andrzej, 15, 19


Uroczystość Bożego Ciała we Lwowie (Corpus Christi Celebrations in L'viv), 44


Uroczystości ślubne ks. Czetwertyńskiej (Princess Czetwertyńska's Wedding), 44


      Varkonyi, Victor, 107


vilder foter, Der (The Cruel Father), 38


      Vilnius, 6, 9, 10, 19, 28, 31, 45, 49, 92, 122, 153, 161


      Vistula-Film, 66


      Vitascope, 15, 17


      Vlassak, Ferdynand, 83


Wacuś, 155, 156


      Wagman, Chaim Lejb. See Trystan, Leon (Chaim Lejb Wagman)
    

      Wagner, Richard, 28


      Wajda, Andrzej, 185, 186


      Wajsman, Herman, 43


      Waks, Michał. See Waszyński (Waks), Michał
    

Walka żuków (The Battle of the Beetles), 46


Walkirie (The Valkyries), 28


Wampiry Warszawy (The Vampires of Warsaw), 77, 78


      Wandycz, Piotr, 31


      Wars (Warszawski), Henryk, 53,
      166, 185


      Warsaw, 11, 64-65, 67-68, 112, 119, 168, 172


      —exhibition in, 13-16, 19-20, 47-52, 76-78, 90-92, 100-11, 121-34, 174-77, 179


      —in film, 28-29,
      43, 60-62, 72, 84, 88, 108, 139, 148, 152-53, 162-65, 176-77


      —production in, 26-29, 33, 37-40, 43, 59-62, 141, 143-44, 180


      Warsaw Jewish Theater, 43


Warszawa (Warsaw), 88


Warszawa w chwili obecnej (Warsaw at Present), 61


      Warszawski, Henryk. See Wars (Warszawski), Henryk
    

      Wasylewski, Stanisław, 172


      Waszyński, Michał, 88, 107, 108, 109, 155, 169, 180


      Wat, Aleksander, 113


      Ważyk, Adam, 113


      Wegener, Paul, 172


      Welttheater, 54


      Wesołowski, Zygmunt, 44, 89


      Western Electric, 110, 127, 128, 133


      Węgrzyn, Józef, 60, 82, 107, 177


Wiadomości filmowe (Film News), 111, 170


Wiadomości literackie (Literary News), 82, 85, 113, 114, 115, 118, 143, 170


Wiec chełmski we Lwowie (A Rally from Chelm in L'viv), 44


Wiek XX (Twentieth Century), 114


      Wielopolska, Maria J., 106,
      112, 161, 185


      Wiene, Robert, 95


      Wilhelm, Carl, 45, 53


      Witczak, Witold, 16, 41, 44, 49, 61, 81, 88


W kawiarni lwowskiej (In a L'viv Café), 28


W odzyskanym Toruniu (In Reclaimed Toruń), 71


      Wohl, Stanisław, 145, 148, 176, 185


      World War I, 37, 39, 48, 59-62, 65, 76, 93, 130, 167


      World War II, 9, 82, 167, 185, 186


      Woszczerowicz, Jacek, 177


      Wójcik, Jerzy, 186


      Wóycicki, Feliks, 127


Wrzos (Heather), 163


Wykolejeni (Human Wrecks), 42


      Wysocka, Stanisława, 81, 179


      Wyszyński, Zbigniew, 53


      Wytwórnia Doświadczalna, 87,
      88


      Wywerka, Albert, 138


Wzlot aeroplanu w Warszawie (An Airplane's Ascent in Warsaw), 40


Wzloty hr. Scipio (The Flights of Count Scipio), 44


      Yiddish language, 4-7, 11, 20, 37-47, 51, 78, 83-84, 93, 100-101, 113, 135-41, 159, 164-84


Yidl mitn fidl (Yiddle with His Fiddle), 174


      Zacharewicz, Witold, 161


      Zagrodzki, Juliusz, 43, 47, 107, 118


      Zahorska, Stefania, 55, 85, 108, 113, 114, 149, 152, 153, 157, 170


      Zakopane, 10, 50, 62, 75, 76, 167


      Zamenhof, Ludwik Lejzer, 7


      Zapolska, Gabriela, 82, 84, 108


Zapomniana melodia (The Forgotten Melody), 156, 167


Zaręczyny Antosia w dzień kwiatka (Antoś's Wedding Engagement on Flower Day), 43


      Zarzycki, Jerzy, 145, 151, 160, 178


Zayn vaybs man (His Wife's Husband), 60


Z dni na dzień (From Day to Day), 132


      Zdort, Wiesław, 186


      Zelichowska, Lena, 138, 160, 162


Zew morza (The Call of the Sea), 84


Ziemia obiecana (The Promised Land), 93


Ziemia święta (The Holy Land), 43


Złodziej i dziewczynka (The Thief and the Girl), 66


Zmruż oczy (Squint Your Eyes), 187


      Znamierowski, Mieczysław, 143


      Zooskop Uniwersalny, 27


      Zuker, M., 39


      Zvi, Shabbetai, 99


Zwarcie (Short Circuit), 149


      Zwrotnica (Switch), 113


      Zyndram-Mucha, Franciszek, 59,
      66, 71, 78, 112


      Żeromski, Stefan, 38, 50, 87, 93, 114, 138


Żona (The Wife), 60


Żurek (Zhoorek), 187





