




The Complete Survival in the Southwest
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Guide to Desert Survival
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By Arizona Bushman 
 
Section 1 Chapter 1
The Basics
The seven necessities
The Rule of Threes
Section 1 Chapter 2
Kit Contents
Section 1 Chapter 3
Section 1 Chapter 4
Signaling Kits and Devices
Section 1 Chapter 5
Gear Pods First Aid Kit
Section 1 Chapter 6
Beginning Knife Sharpening
Your Knife
Section 1 Chapter 7
Multi Tools
Section 1 Chapter 8
Section 1 Chapter 9
Conclusion for Chapter 1
The Five Heat Loss and Heat Gain Mechanisms
Section 2 Chapter 2
Shelter Construction and Location
Section 2 chapter 3
Man Made Materials and Shelters
Tent Fly Shelter
Hammocks as Shelters
Section 2 chapter 4
The Casualty Blanket
My Camo Tarp
Section 2 chapter 5
Natural Shelters - Lean To
Breaking Poles for Shelter Construction
The Sided Lean-To
The Triad Lean Too
Section 2 chapter 6
Natural Shelters - Debris A-frame
Section 2 chapter 7
Miscellaneous Ideas
Creating Shade
Hot Rocks
Wool Blanket Poncho
Vehicle Shelter
Conclusion for Chapter 2
Section 3 Chapter 1
Fire
Section 3 Chapter 2
Man Made Tinder
Section 3 Chapter 3
Fire Kits and why to have one
Section 3 Chapter 4
Wet Weather Fire Starting
Fat Wood
Section 3 Chapter 5
Ferro Rods
Magnesium Fire Starter
Section 3 Chapter 6
Chemicals and Fire Making
Potassium Permanganate
Gunpowder
Section 3 Chapter 7
Steel Wool
Section 3 Chapter 8
Making and using Char Cloth
More charred Materials
Flint and Steel
Section 3 Chapter 9
Focused Light
Parabolic Dish
Magnifying Lenses
Section 3 Chapter 10
Friction Fires/the Bow Drill
The Two-Stick Fireboard
Section 3 Chapter 11
Friction Fires/the Hand Drill
Hand Drill Spindle Variation
River Cane Hand Drill Spindle
The Broken or Split Stick Fireboard
One Handed Fire Starting
Section 3 Chapter 12
Tinder Bundles and Transporting a Fire
Coal Extenders
Apache Cigar
Section 3 Chapter 13
Methods of Safely Keeping a Fire
The Dakota Fire Hole
The Hole
Section 3 Chapter 14
Fire Lays
Lean Too
The Tepee
Council Fire Lay
Wet or Damp Ground
Conclusion for Chapter 3
Section 4 Chapter 1
Water
Dehydration and Hydration
Hydration Kit
Making an oral re-hydration solution
Keeping yourself and your water cool
Section 4 Chapter 2
Microorganisms and Water Treatment
Making Water Potable
Iodine
Chlorine
Potassium Permanganate
A few natural ways of water disinfection and treatment of waterborne pathogens
Section 4 Chapter 3
Filtering water
MSR Miniworks
Aquamira Frontier Pro
Bio Diesel Filter Milbank Bag
Making charcoal for filters
Cactus and Clearing Water
Section 4 Chapter 4
Expedient Water Filters
Improvised Two Liter Bottle Filter
Section 4 Chapter 5
Ultra Violet Water Treatment
Steri Pen
The SODIS Method
Section 4 Chapter 6
Boiling Water
Rock Boiling
Boiling in a Container
Boiling in Found Containers
Utilizing Underground Water Sources
Section 4 Chapter 7
Collecting Water from the Sun and Sky
Vegetation bag and Transpiration bag
Dew Collecting
Rain Catch
Subterranean Rain Catch
Plastic Bags for Water
Section 4 Chapter 8
Filling Your Container
Section 4 Chapter 9
Locating Water
Section 4 Chapter 10
Plants for Water
Making containers for water
Pant Leg Bladder Canteen
Section 4 Chapter 11
Desert Navigation
Field Expedient compass
Navigation with plants
The watch method
Patrol Maps
Using Snow
Navigating by the Stars
Navigation using the Moon
Section 4 Chapter 12
Signaling for Rescue
The improvised Coaches Whistle
Reflective Devices
Smoke
Night Signaling
Lights and Lasers
Ground to Air Symbols
Section 5 Chapter 1
Trapping and Hunting
Survival Food and Diet
Stage or Step Foraging
Section 5 Chapter 2
Animal Trails and Sign
Section 5 Chapter 3
Snares
The Rolling Snare
The Dead Lift Fulcrum Snare
Walking stick uses
Section 5 Chapter 4
Bait and Dead Falls
The figure Four
Bait Stick Variation
Paiute Dead Fall
The Fenced Paiute
The Promontory Peg
Section 5 Chapter 5
Fish and Crayfish Trap
Plastic Bottle Crayfish Trap
Section 5 Chapter 6
Tilong Rat Trap
Section 5 Chapter 7
Survival Hunting
Atlatl
Atlatl Darts
Section 5 Chapter 8
Survival Archery
The single stick bow
The Bundle bow
Section 5 Chapter 9
The Tent Pole Bow
Section 5 Chapter 10
Making Arrows
Heat straightening arrow shafts
Hunting Points
Making a Beer Bottle Point
Different points and techniques
Field Expedient Blunts
Hafting Your Points
Flights and Knocks
Spear points
Section 5 Chapter 11
Clubs and Throwing Sticks
Clubbing and spearing frogs
Section 5 Chapter 12
Gathering
Insects and arachnids
Other Little Edible Creepy Crawlies
Section 5 Chapter 13
Snakes, lizards, Birds, and More
Birds
Fish Cooked the Arizona Bushman Way
Section 6
Improvising Your Tools (Tips and Tricks)
Chapter 1 Plant Fibers
Making Cord from Yucca
Willow Bark Cord
Plant lashing material
Section 6 Chapter 2
Making Pitch Glue
Section 6 Chapter 3
Coal Burning Containers
Improvised Tubes
Shell Spoons
Making Tongs
Section 6 Chapter 4
Stone Tools
Handheld Stone Blades
The Hoko Knife
Hand Axe
Stone Drills
Section 6 Chapter 5
Bone Tools
Scapular Saw
Bone Needles
Bone Scrapers
Bone Spear Points
Section 6 Chapter 6
Improvised Saws
More Hose Clamp Uses
Section 6 Chapter 7
The Awesomeness of Cord
Makin Nets
Section 6 Chapter 8
The Mortar and Pestle
Wood Mortar and Pestle
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction
 
 
     I have been involved in survival since the age of eight living on a small farm in Oklahoma. Many times throughout the year, the calm trickling creeks turned into raging torrents leaving us trapped at home. My parents included me in all activities to procure food and water to keep us going for the weeks ahead. Dad hunted and fished while my mother cleaned and prepared the bounty. We also had a garden, raised catfish in a pond, ducks, chickens, rabbits, sheep and goats; all of these had their part in our subsistence. In spring, we prepared the garden for planting and the fall our harvest was canned and stored away for future use. We always had enough meat, fruits, and veggies from the farm and the wilderness to get through trying times. I looking back it was a great lesson in life and a great experience that not a lot of people get to enjoy.
     I joined the boy scouts at the age of ten and I loved every minute of it. I sat and read the Boy Scout handbook for hours. On outings, we learned basic survival skills like shelter building, fire making, finding and purifying water, edible plants, and trapping. I never could get enough of the outdoors; it has always been like a second home to me. 
     In junior high, we moved into town so my parents could be closer to work. On the weekends, my friends and I went camping on a nearby hill. There we practiced our survival skills. Some of my friends were Native Americans, whom showed me many ancestral skills intriguing me even further. At the age of twelve, I received a copy of The U.S. Armed Forces Survival Manual for Christmas. I did not realize at the time, but it had become a huge part of who I am today. I began to build a library of survival related literature. I went on to read books from such authors as Tom Brown and Oliver Perry Medsger. 
     Growing up with the friend's I had really made it possible for these skills to blossom and grow into what they are today. I went camping with two good friends just before my senior year of high school. We turned the camping trip into a tracking and hunting experience. We walked a wooded area with a lot of tall grass looking for game trails. We found a good sign, fresh at a few hours old made by a raccoon. I began scouting the trail and looking for more sign. We found fresh droppings and a lot more tracks. The trail took us down to a creek were we found sign of the critters sitting and washing their food. According to their droppings, they were fating up on crayfish. We stopped and filled our canteens and disinfected the water with iodine before moving on to follow more sign. We came to a downed tree that was leaning against another in a small clearing. There were more fresh droppings that were only hours old lying on the tree trunk. This is where the trail stopped. We looked for more sign with no results. As we looked in the trees, I noticed a large hole in the trunk of an adjacent tree not more than a few yards away. I studied the possible routes to that tree; I found that from the downed tree it was an easy route from branch to branch. I approached the tree and climbed slowly up onto a stump to peer inside. Sleeping inside was a huge raccoon. At the time, we just looked at the beautiful creature, but with this practice and actually getting the dirt time we became much better hunters. 
     I was young and wet behind the ears knowing nothing about the world outside of Oklahoma. Something changed inside of me and could never quite put my finger on it until I moved to Arizona. I participated in Cody Lundins Aboriginal Living Skills School at Yavapai College in Prescott. That single class changed my life. From that moment on, I knew exactly what I wanted to do. From then on, I began seeing the world more differently than I ever had. I spent a lot of time in the desert and found that when I am out there I feel at peace. It changes me into a different person, all my worries and everything that gets to me in society disappears.
     At one time, I taught small survival classes in Arizona. I have been to schools and libraries to speak to students about primitive skills. I enjoy seeing the confidence build in the students as they learn. Seeing the look on a student's face when they start a fire using primitive methods for the first time is the greatest gift I could ever receive.
     My feelings about Western Society will come out at times in this book. I only hope that it does not offend anyone, which is not my intention. I write this book to pass important lifesaving skills to the reader. In no way do I expect you to adopt my thoughts and beliefs. I am merely using it to shed light on the subject of survival. I hope to educate you on the importance of staying alive in the wilderness. We are all different; we all believe and think differently. This is what truly makes us diverse.   
     This book has a wealth of information on a vast subject. There are so many tools and skills to learn I cannot possibly include everything on the subject of survival. I can however supply you with basic knowledge to teach you how to survive in one of the most unforgiving environments in our country. I hope this book does not scare you away from enjoying Mother Nature, but instead gives you the knowledge to love and respect our Earth and all she has to offer. 
     My goal is to make this book as easy as possible to follow and understand. There are many pictures in this book, this is to help the reader better understand how to do these skills. Realize there are several differing opinions on the subject of survival and some hard-core beliefs that are set in stone to some. In my learning experience, there is one thing that has made it easier to learn these skills. This is the realization that there really is more than one way to accomplish a task. If you are one that is serious about survival and devote a lot of time, love, care, and patience to the craft I hope you find this a good read. Enjoy this book and practice these skills with caution. We all have the same goal, to live.
     Through the course of writing these books, some wonderful adventures have crossed my path. I have met some of the greatest people in the field. All of which have given me some amazing words of encouragement along the way. One person in particular was Ron Hood. I had the honor of participating in a reality television show that was to air on the History channel. I was a contestant on the show and Ron was a judge. We were to complete several times survival challenges. Challenges like building a shelter, building a fire, rock boiling water, trapping, and signaling. I was up against some tough competition. One trained by the covert ops in the U.S. military and one other trained by the National Outdoor Leadership School or NOLS. This is a world-renowned wilderness school. I was a little intimidated and all my training was from a young age growing up in Oklahoma. Cody's class helped me put some desert training into perspective and taught me how to think. That is all the credentials I brought to the table. 
     The first challenge we had was to build a shelter. Sounds simple enough, but when you have a producer like Adam Brials running the show there will be some interesting twists thrown in...just to catch you off guard. We were in rocky terrain and they made us were surgical support boots to keep our ankles from moving. I ended up taking a knee however, I was lucky and found out later I only strained it. The good thing was the relief of being able to take them off after the first night. I was the only one to get some food. I had the pleasure of clubbing a lizard for dinner. I had eaten them before and they are really quite tasty. As far as fire and boiling the water, I was the only one to succeed in completing those as well. To make a long story short I came home with the prize money and the trophy. I had never felt more confident in my skills until that moment. It truly was what I needed to take that final leap into knowing that my skills are viable. I gained a lot of confidence not only as a survivalist but also as an instructor. For that, I truly thank the legend Dr. Ron Hood. 
     Some other extraordinary accomplishments came soon after. Mike Fuller from Tops knives and I were talking about the possibility of releasing a knife with my name, logo, and school on the blade. It was a feeling of great honor to see this come to pass with the High Desert Survival Knife. Upon release almost instantly, Tactical Knives Magazine did a very nice 6-page article on it. The November 2011 feature on the blade was amazing. I was so happy about the accomplishment that I sent a copy over to my parents. I had been in such a financial bind for so long that there was a tiny light at the end of the tunnel. My parents were so happy that they started to cry as they read the article.  
     In the process of getting things in order for the Tactical Knives article, I spoke to a very good friend of mine from the U.K. named Chris Cain. He was working with Scorpion Knives on a few of his designs. I asked him about the possibility of designing a knife for the same company. I threw the idea out there and he had a conference with the head of the company. They said to send in a prototype blade for review. As soon as I did, the Saguaro Survival Knife was born. Upon the release of this Tactical Knives Magazine, feature it with the Mel Parry Brute.       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 1 Chapter 1
The Basics
 
 
 
     Let us start by asking, "What is Survival"? The dictionary defines it as the act or fact of surviving, or someone or something that survives. Survival can also be defined as an ancient belief or custom. Second, ask yourself "What does survival mean to me"? For some it means being stranded in some remote place far away from the nearest convenience store with no cell phone reception. In my meaning, it starts way before the actual scenario is staring you in the face. It starts in day-to-day existence, in your ability to adapt and overcome. Everyday stresses at home or at work can reflect on how you would react in a survival scenario. It ultimately boils down to your ability to stand and take charge when it matters most, to develop the necessary coping skills required to come back alive.
     During a survival situation, just getting through the initial crisis is only a third of the battle. How would someone find himself or herself in a survival situation? A lost hiker or hunter is probably the most common scenario talked about in most instances. Take an off road excursion in the backcountry or a leisurely plane flight turned bad in the blink of an eye. These are only two possible emergencies that could arise. The chances of coming out of a serious accident unscathed are slim to none. When this kind of situation arises there can be severe injuries ranging from broken bones, massive trauma, or even death. This makes a survival situation that much more serious. If possible, all injuries are stabilized in the field and evacuation by medical personnel is of the highest priority.
     A survival situation will bring out either the best in a person or the absolute worse. If you do take to the outdoors in any way, it is very important to take measures before hand to be able to handle an emergency. It is also important that you take the time to practice all these skills as a training requirement. Do not just read or watch videos on the subject of survival; get out there and get some dirt time. As an avid outdoorsman, you should know how to handle a situation calmly and effectively. 
     I come across people all the time that ask me about Primitive skills and wilderness survival. Some even laugh and take it as a joke in terms saying things like "I know what I am doing when I go out in the bush and nothing will ever happen to me". While this is great to have a positive attitude, that my friend is arrogance. Having the right attitude in a survival situation is crucial to getting out alive and in one piece. The best way I have found to develop a positive mindset is to train and prepare. The idea is simple, as you practice making fire with the bow drill you will soon master it, by mastering it you gain confidence, knowing you will not freeze to death if you are stranded without matches. 
      The biggest obstacle for most I think would be dealing with the initial shock or realization of what happened to land them into a situation. Take the most common occurrence of being lost. That first initial feeling of your heart jumping and heavy breathing is the beginning stages of panic. Many people lose it at this point and begin to run around frantically trying to find a familiar landmark or feature. This in turn gets them even more lost and maybe it is getting dark fueling the panic even more. Keep your head on straight. Panicking in a survival situation drastically reduces your chances of staying alive. 
     Everyone knows when he or she begins to feel scared. By simply recognizing your body's signs, you can in turn control them. Just sit down, take a breath maybe a drink of water, and calm down. Just that little bit is enough to center you and clear your thinking. Once calmed and able to think you can begin to make a survival plan. This in turn can be used to your advantage. Simply remember to S-T-O-P. This means to sit, think, observe, and plan. To put it another way; finding yourself lost or in any type of a survival situation; just pop a squat and think about what is going on. Take this time to see what is around you as far as resources, environment, terrain, and even the climate. Think about how to make the best of what you have on hand and what you have around you. Finally make a plan and stick to it. Plan out your shelter, how to make a fire, how to find and purify water, and procure food. Take the opportunity to be ready should you need to signal a passing plane for rescue. This process can easily slow your heart rate and move you from the unknown to the realm of possible.    
     In a survival situation, the word survival can be used to help guide you in staying calm, planning, and making decisions. Take the word as an acronym S-U-R-V-I-V-A-L. This is taught by the U.S. military as part of their survival training. If it is good enough for our troops, it is definitely good enough for me. 
 
S- Size up your situation. Ask yourself what happened, what I can do to make it better. Consider your surroundings, is it woodland or desert? Listen for sounds of animals, insects, wind, water, or even possible signs of people. Look at your physical condition. You may have over looked injuries; take care of any wounds as quickly as possible. Look at the equipment you have available. The equipment and resources you have available is your lifeline.
 
U- Undue haste makes waste. Plan every movement; do not move just for the sake of moving. Do not take risks that could cause further injury or otherwise exacerbate your situation. Make a survival plan. Figure out what you need to do and do it. Make your plan and stick with it.
 
R- Remember where you are. Orient yourself; if you have a map use it; Take a bearing with a compass or the sun. Look at your surroundings; Pay attention to landmarks like a tree that is shaped different, a rock formation, or even a hill or mountain.
 
V- Vanquish fear and panic. Stay in control of your emotions stay positive. Panicking will make everything worse and keep you from making rational decisions. Stay calm and collected; making irrational decisions can and will lead to injury or worse.
 
I-Improvise. Use what you have to make what you need. This takes us to primitive skills. If you do not have a necessary tool, make one. Nature provides us with everything we need to survive.
 
V- Value living. I think this one speaks for itself. As long as you value your life, you will not give it up easily. Thinking about getting back to loved ones; even getting back to a hot shower, comfortable bed, or even hamburger or pizza will keep you going. Do not give up.
 
A- Act as primitive man. Learn to watch animals, they can tell you a lot about survival like shelter, water, and food. Note: If an animal eats, it does not mean it is safe for you. Watch the weather; learn when incoming storms are on their way. This begins long before you are in a survival situation. Simply being in tune with your surroundings will drastically increase your chances of survival. This will also keep you aware of possible dangers. 
 
L- Learn basic survival skills. Take the time to learn survival skills before faced with a situation. Learning the proper skills gives you the confidence to adapt to a survival situation.
 
Let us think a little bit about stress. Knowing how you deal with stress can and will increase your chances of survival. Recognize how you react in different situations. What are signs and feelings you are faced with daily tell you about what your reactions in a survival situation may be? How do you react to physical and emotional stress? How well you maintain composure is also a valuable tool that will help you effectively perform tasks. Knowing these things about you is extremely important in a survival situation. That is not to say that being scared or angry is not a bad thing, you can be either and have a heightened sense of alertness and provide extra energy as long as you maintain composure. Your reaction to hunger at the same time can cause you to make irrational decisions and put yourself in unnecessary danger.
      There are two survival dangers that can kill. You must recognize these and know what brings it on in order to effectively deal with them. The desire for comfort and a passive outlook are attitudes of least resistance. They can both override your effort and desire to properly deal with stress.
 
The desire for comfort- Change how you feel about comfort, there are no motels or room service in a survival situation. Change your idea of what comfort is. In a survival situation, Comfort is not important. Allow your desire for comfort to drive you to succeed.
 
The passive outlook- Is the single most important attitude to avoid. Many things can bring it on such as fatigue, illness, dehydration, cold, heat, weakness, even loneliness. This causes a lack of will, lethargy, and mental numbness that if not dealt with can make a person just "sit and die". The feeling of not being able or not having the will to get up and build a fire, find water, or build a shelter can cause one to "sit and die". You must force yourself to get up and move even if it is to make a repair on the shelter. Staying active and moving even when you do not feel like it can boost your spirits and help avoid a passive outlook.
     Know your survival enemies. These can cause both desire for comfort and a passive attitude. They are common mental and physical stresses and can impede your ability to deal with your survival situation.
 
Pain- Pain tells you that you have an injury. Pain in itself is not harmful, deal accordingly and promptly with injuries. You can take your mind off pain by dealing with tasks. Even though it does make you uncomfortable do not let it get the best of you, it can lessen your will to survive. Understand it can be tolerated. Focus on tasks. 
Heat- If you are not acclimated to the heat you can become weak. It can take two to six days to become acclimated to high temperatures. Do not exert yourself during the hottest hours of the day. Keep your head covered when in the direct sun, this will help to regulate your body's core temperature. You should find shelter and drink plenty of water. Your body can lose up to a quart of water an hour, twice that with heavy activity. Conserve your water by limiting your sweat.
 
Cold- When your body becomes cold your efficiency lowers. It can impede your ability to think clearly and do anything to get warm. The effects of the cold are dangerous; it slows the blood flow and makes you sleepy. You should immediately find or build a shelter and build a fire to warm up. It is also important to stay hydrated. You do not feel as thirsty in cold climates so drink regularly even if you are not thirsty. Do not work yourself into a sweat; pace yourself and regulate your body temperature by removing or adding layers of clothing. If you sweat, you are a candidate for hypothermia.
 
Hunger- If hunger goes unalleviated it will affect moral, attitude and your overall will to survive. You have to eat to stay alive; if hunger persists and is not dealt with it can cause weight loss, dizziness, weakness, increased thirst, sensitivity to cold, your heart rate will slow causing black outs upon standing. Eat whatever edibles you find even if you would not normally think of eating it. Survival is not the time to be fussy. If you do not have water do not eat, eating and digestion uses your body's valuable water. 
 
Thirst- Thirst and dehydration are two of the most serious threats to survival. Thirst itself is not a good indicator of dehydration; it can dull your mind. You should always drink plenty of water especially when eating. Your body uses water to carry off waste from food and can speed dehydration. If water is not in great supply, reduce your food intake and sweating.
 
Fatigue- Fatigue can be mind numbing in a survival situation, giving you an; I-do not care attitude. Things like overexertion, hopelessness, frustration, and boredom cause fatigue. We all know when we are tired and by recognizing this, we can find the strength to go on. You can also find the strength by recognizing the seriousness of the situation.
 
Boredom- Boredom is brought on by repetition and uniformity. It brings lack of interest and feelings of depression, anxiety, frustration, and strain. By keeping your goal and realizing how you must perform your tasks to fulfill your overall survival plan you can overcome boredom.
 
Loneliness- In a survival situation (if alone) you must rely on yourself. We spend our entire lives preparing to be self-sufficient by doing things ourselves. The isolation of a survival situation can bring on feelings of loneliness as well as hopelessness and despair. Being self-sufficient plays a major role in overcoming these feelings. You need to stay active, keep making survival plans, and think with a deliberate purpose. You can practice being self sufficient in day-to-day life by making your own decisions, exploring new situations and problems, and solving them. 
 
     Learn to deal with day-to-day stresses and practice solving different problems that you might face in any given situation. When camping or hiking put yourself in mock situations. Try to place yourself in discomfort. By doing this you can better, prepare yourself for a survival situation. Any little thing you can prepare for will drastically improve your ability to adapt and overcome anything thrown at you. 
      In a survival situation, there are several factors to include. These factors pertain to the basic human needs. I will explain all of these in-depth and the order they need to be. Your survival experience depends on you. Your knowledge of the wilderness around you and the level of your survival skills will have a great impact on whether or not you live or die. Anyone can be in a survival situation regardless of experience or location. Having everything you need at the ready cannot guarantee your survival. In an actual survival situation, the chances of having all your fancy gear will be limited. Keep in mind, Murphy is not on your side. Whatever can go wrong will go wrong. 
     The most important tool to keep on hand and protect with your life is your brain. Knowing how to deal with an emergency with limited tools and resources greatly increases your chances of coming home alive. Learn how to make the best out of a bad situation at home or at work. Learn how to react in a sensible manner without losing your head. Do not dwell on bad or negative things or you will only get a bad or negative outcome. There are two old sayings that are very true in day-to-day life if not more during a survival situation. "Patience is a virtue" and "if life hands you lemons make lemonade".  This means do not expect everything to happen or come together all at once give it time. If faced with a bitter predicament, look for something positive about it and work to change the situation.  
     Let us call this your mental tool kit. Not only is your mental attitude important, your common sense is also equally important. I know in today's world common sense is not so common anymore. I believe most people have shut off that area of their brain or simply switched to autopilot. I doubt you are one of these people if you are reading this book. Common sense tells us not to touch the red hot metal or it will burn. Incorporating this into a survival situation is just as easy. Look at a situation and ask yourself; if I do this what is the outcome? How can I avoid exacerbating my situation? Use a little foresight before charging into a solution and causing a real problem. I like to use the adage "work smarter not harder". This puts your brain into such a mode as to find easier ways to deal with a predicament. For example, using leverage instead of force to break branches for your shelter is not only easier but also safer. Do not jump on the branches to break them, find a couple of trees to use leverage. This will prevent a broken ankle or a broken leg. That is common sense in action.
 
Before leaving your house for a wilderness outing always let two people know where you are going and when you will return.
 
     By telling two people where we are going and when we will, return is a rescue link to civilization. Mark your trail on a map and date it, and put the times of possible arrival and return. Give this to a friend, neighbor, or a family member. Better yet, make up two maps and give them to people you trust. Tell them if you do not return by a certain time to notify rescue officials. This is your key to being rescued should something happen. If you stray off the trail or become lost, stay put. By staying put, it will make it easier for rescue personnel to locate you. Never attempt to self-rescue if you are in unfamiliar territory. By attempting self-rescue, you can become even more lost. You can easily find yourself even farther away from help by wandering around. Even worse, you could risk serious injury or death. So do yourself and everyone else a favor and stay put. 
      Should you find yourself lost what do you do? The answer is simple; just sit. That is it, just sit. You take that time to gather your senses and make a plan. Some people even talk to themselves. No; that is not a sign of a mental illness; it makes thinking and decision making clearer to that person. Do not be afraid to make a serious survival plan aloud. At least you will know you and yourself are together on the plans execution. If you have questions feel free to ask them, I am sure you will listen. This may sound funny, but truth is just simply having a conversation with yourself in a survival situation can be beneficial. Not only does it break the boredom but it also makes your decisions that much more clear. You will notice in the movie Castaway; Tom Hanks was talking to a volleyball named Wilson. That actually helped to keep him sane and his mind sharp. Being alone in a survival situation can be a little unnerving.
     Why is being alone in the wilderness scary? I have developed a theory on this that may shed some light and ease your mind in the event that you are alone. Every day in western civilization, we are bombarded from every direction with unnatural noises. These noises are from cars, phones, televisions, and many other sources. These take our natural senses and flush them straight down the toilet. Primitive man had to be on his toes at all times. He knew staying quiet would benefit his life and his belly. Noise would either alert a predator of his presents or frighten his dinner away. We as humans born into western civilization have lost this basic instinct. In our modern world, noise is preferred and silence is the exception. In modern day tribes all over the world, silence is preferred and noise is the exception. 
     Take the modern human and place him in the situation of being alone in the wilderness. You can imagine how frightening of an experience this would be. The reason this is so frightening is that our blood remembers. The blood that has been handed down from generation to generation for centuries once belonged to primitive man. Once placed into the wilderness alone our senses instantly heighten to be where they once were. The constant bombardment of noises no longer hide or mask our primal senses that civilization has worked so hard to breed out of us. At this point, we begin to feel scared due to the sudden rush of our natural senses heightened. We begin to feel as if someone or something is watching or something is out there. We are no longer used to these feelings and it is frightening when they come back all at once. It is at this point you are tuned up to nature and ready to defend yourself or hunt. Instead of fearing, the dark lonely wilderness; embrace it. It is at this time you can truly get to know your ancestors.
      I have had students in my classes tell me that they think nature is a friend. I always have to correct them and explain; nature is a neutral force, she does not pick sides. It is up to you to make her friend or foe. Even the worst storms on the planet have a purpose. They help to clear old or even overgrown plant life and make room for new; they help to cleanse the earth paving the way for new life. The only thing that makes them so horrific and tragic is the sheer number of people that now populate the Earth. Do not make the mistake of putting yourself in harm's way, take notice of signs around you and take precautions to protect yourself. There are times to move, go to higher ground, or even evacuate. If the signs are, there you had better listen. Mother Nature will not wait for you nor will she show you any mercy. When the chips are down know when to stay and when to move. There is no reason to stick around where there is a possibility of a flash flood or where there is no cover from incoming rain or snow. This is where using common sense should prevail. Note the signs and take steps to protect yourself. 
    None of this would be complete without mentioning a few teaching tools I use to better explain and simplify a survival situation. These are the seven necessities of a survival situation and the rule of threes. The seven necessities tell you the most important needs and goals for a situation. All seven work in conjunction with each other to help reach the final goal of rescue. The rule of threes helps to prioritize a situation in order of importance. 
 
The seven necessities:
 
1. First Aid
2. Shelter
3. Fire
4. Water
5. Food
6. Signaling 
7. Rescue
 
The Rule of Threes:
 
3 sec of panic, This means keep your head together. Panicking leads to irrational thought patterns and impulse actions. It also makes rational thought impossible. In this stage you will die! Life expectancy is three seconds during the state of panic. Do not allow yourself to get to this point. Keep it calm and levelheaded. Injuries to yourself or others can cause panic. Stay calm and focused. Deal with injuries immediately.  
 
3 minutes without air, this is obvious! If your brain cannot get oxygen for three minutes, brain death will occur. This also refers to Carbon Monoxide Poisoning.
 
3 hours of exposure, this pertains to shelter and fire. I always put clothing in the same category as shelter. Clothing is your first line of defense against exposure from heat or cold. The shelter and fire are ways of combating the elements. It takes three hours with no protection to be overcome by the elements. 
 
3 days without water, this is a general guideline. Depending on temperature and level of activity, this can be different. Some can die of dehydration in less than a day in the heat of the desert. I have also read about people that have gone for seven days without water and lived. They would have had to keep their activity level down to nothing and stayed in the shade motionless to achieve this. Water does many things for us in a survival situation. It replaces lost body fluids, boosts morale, regulates our core body temperature, and flushes waste from our body.
 
3 weeks without food, Food in a survival situation is the least important of all. This is not to say that food has no importance, it is quite the contrary. Food does many things for us in a survival situation. Not only does it give us energy, it also nourishes us, comforts us, boosts our morale, and helps to regulate our core body temperature in colder climates (fats and proteins). Follow the rule, if you do not have water do not eat. Eating and digestion use up valuable body fluid.    
 You can see how the rule of three's climb from minutes to weeks. This is how the seven necessities put into order from most important to least. Remember they are all important.  
      I have also in the past referred to a type of currency in the wilderness. Not the type you are thinking of, spend this wisely. When it is gone, there is no waiting until next payday, filing for bankruptcy, or asking for a bailout, you are dead, plain and simple. Survival situations tax your body in many ways. It is up to you to pay your body's bills and keep the maintenance up to date.
 
 Body fluid, this should not be neglected. Work at a steady pace to ensure you spend less water. Do not rely on thirst to tell you to drink water. By the time your brain triggers thirst you have already lost one percent of your body fluid. Ration your sweat not your water. Water is responsible for washing away waste material from the body, regulating your core body temperature, provides valuable minerals, and helps the body fight off infection. Water is also used to aid in digestion.
     Staying hydrated allows your body to thermoregulate. Cells expand and contract in this natural occurrence. This action enables these cells to release or capture heat. Without proper fluids this action stops and will not allow your body to regulate its core temperature.    
 
 Core temperature- Do not neglect this! This works the same as above. In cold climates, do not allow yourself to sweat. Sweating in cold climates is dead ringer for Hypothermia. Take the proper measures to protect yourself from the heat and cold. The body looses heat through five methods; these same methods also contribute to heat gain. These are convection, conduction, radiation, respiration, and perspiration. I will cover these more in-depth in the shelter and water section of this book.
     In hot climates, it is important to stay as cool as possible. Stay in the shade or take shelter in the hottest parts of the day. This will allow you to take advantage of the cooler times to complete important tasks. In the heat, I drink cool liquids. I can cool the water by burying my water bottle in the shade. The temperature underground is much cooler than the above ground temperature. I will also soak a bandanna in water, wrapping it around my bottle and hanging it in the shade of a tree. This allows natural evaporative cooling to cool down my water. At times, I will also have to dig for my water. The hole I dig after filling my container, I will leave the bottle in the water and shade it with boughs allowing the water to stay cool. In cold climates, I like to drink warm liquids. This will aid in keeping you warm by elevating your core temperature.    
 
 Mental Attitude, Do not allow your mind to become "overwhelmed" keep focused on the task and stay busy. Avoid becoming angry, anger can lead to irrational thinking, panic, and loss of judgment, depression, and even despair. You can control your emotions by getting your mind on something more important. A mind change can be the difference between life and death. Keep a positive attitude and work to achieve your goal.
 
Nutritional health- Eat! Eating does much more than just satisfies hunger, it helps to build cells in damaged tissue, keeps your immune system stay strong, gives you energy, helps regulate core temperature in colder climates, and boosts morale. Lack of food can cause the body to "eat" itself starting with fat stores then moving to the muscles for nourishment. Starvation is an extremely painful road to death. If there is no water, do not eat a lot of proteins and fats, eating and digestion of these uses up valuable body fluid. It is for this reason that water is more important than food in a survival situation. Remember it is a calorie game. 
 
Physical health, Do not exacerbate your situation. Do not take unnecessary risks. Avoid injuries at all costs. Be extremely careful and plan every move. Use caution in every move that you make. The slightest injury will cause even that much more discomfort or even worse. If you become sick, keep yourself hydrated and nourished as much as possible. Your body is "taxed" more rapidly during periods of illness. Eat and drink even if you do not feel hungry or thirsty. This will give much needed energy to help your body fight off sickness.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 1 Chapter 2
Constructing Your Survival Kit
 
 
     In this chapter, I will cover the basics of the survival kit. I used these kits while teaching basic and advanced classes. These are to give an idea as to what items can be carried inside a survival kit as well as what items are available. A survival kit is to be tailor made to a specific person. Several things should be taken into consideration like skill level, what you do most of the time you are in the wilderness, Is it your job or for fun. Take the vehicle you use into consideration whether it is a quad, motorcycle, or in a 4x4 truck. 
     Build your kit to fit you. Make it compact and easy to grab and carry. One could even make a few kits and keep then in the vehicle or in various packs. In the southwest, keep weight in mind! This is important, keep your basics in mind and know what your priorities are as well. Do not carry too much. Weight is a huge factor when preparing your kit. Remember you can live without the kitchen sink. The only reason I will have so much equipment is because I have a large family, I write, do videos and I also teach skills to people of all ages. This makes it easy to have everything on hand when I need it instead of having to go home and grab something else for a demonstration.
 
  Use these guidelines to build your survival kit.
 
1.              First aid- Use a good quality first aid kit. Do your research before buying or building one of your own. Learn alternate ways of first aid. Making splints for broken arms, legs, or ankles, the use of charcoal for poisoning or diarrhea. Use ashes from the fire to stop superficial bleeding. Learn what plants can repel insects, reduce fever, alleviate pain, which are good antiseptics, as well as aid in stopping bleeding. Knowing these things will stretch your first aid equipment.  
2.   Cutting tools- (this, besides your brain is the most important piece of gear you can carry) Knife, folding shovel, saw and an ax or hatchet. These are examples of cutting tools.
3.              Shelter- You can carry a ready-made shelter or shelter material as well as tools needed to construct one. This includes the clothes you are wearing as well as cord, rope, or the knowledge to make your own from plant fibers or cambium if needed. 
4.              Fire- There is many fire starting methods available. The key is not to carry just one method. Learn alternate methods of fire craft to extend the life of your materials. Do not rely on just one. 
5.              Water- This means ways to carry and purify water as well as alternate ways of obtaining water. There are also retort pouches of emergency water that are lightweight and take up little space. These pouches are a way to supplement your water supply. Utilize these until you find a source of water. 
6.              Food- Pack a high-energy food source such as granola, trail mix, jerky, or even an MRE if desired. You should also carry other methods of obtaining food such as traps or trapping material. If you choose to go with edible plants make, sure you do your research and learn from someone in that particular field. 
7.              Signaling- There are hundreds of methods available from strobes and mirrors to flares and whistles. Carry more than one method and practice their uses. You should also learn alternate methods of signaling in the event that you lose your survival kit. This can and does happen.
8.   Navigation- Learn how to navigate without a compass in the event it is lost or destroyed. Using shadows, wind direction, stars, and even plants can help you find your way. My opinion on navigation is that it is not seriously important in a survival situation if you are lost you do not know what direction to go in the first place. If you did know, the direction you were going you would not be lost in the first place! Rule of thumb is to sit still until rescued. Provided you followed the number one rule of telling at least two people, where you are going and when you will return in the first place. Maps and compasses are more or less for preventive use. I use a compass as well as other methods to pick a direction and stick to it. For example, I pick a Southeastern hill and head to it; once I am there, I will pick another Southeastern landmark. I will do this until I find help. It is the same principal as following a stream to a creek, then a creek to a river and so on. Eventually you will find someone.  
 
     You should construct your survival kit to fit these guidelines. They are similar to the seven necessities and are equally important.  Based on your personal skill and comfort level; you can make the perfect survival kit that fits you. I used the word comfort because you may not feel comfortable improvising a specific item at the time of construction. Maybe you have not practiced a specific skill to the point of perfection. If later you do perfect this particular skill, keep that item in the kit. This will be added insurance, save where, and tear of that item. I also stress the education of primitive skills. Our ancestors used these skills thousands of years ago. These will teach you how to improvise every survival tool in your arsenal. In the event that you lose your survival kit, you can be confident in the added insurance that primitive skills give you. 
     Be warned: Primitive skills are great but do not rely solely on these skills. These are in fact aboriginal living skills and not used alone in a survival situation. Survival means life or death, at this point you are not in a living situation. Once you have taken care of all your basic needs you then begin to live. This gives you the time to make containers, bows and arrows, and sit there for the time it takes to make a clay pot.
     Primitive man used these skills daily to stay alive and to complete daily tasks. When the rains came, he already had his shelter built and his fire lit. Even in the nomadic cultures knew the signs of what to look for in terms of how much daylight is left. They also knew how long before the storm hit. Aboriginal cultures also carried the necessities for survival with them. They had knives, medicine, and food, water, hunting and trapping tools with them. In cold climates they were also prepared with hides and mats used for shelter and bedding. They carried extra material for making new arrow points and blades. This was extremely different compared to today's gear needs. They were by no means modern man from the city all of a sudden thrown into a survival situation. They had life experience on their side. We as a society do not have an intimate relationship with the wilderness. To us the wilderness is a foreign place, uninviting to some, far from our highways and places of work. Today we have to learn even the most basic of wilderness skills. Even lighting a fire can prove a challenge to us moderns. 
     Like primitive man, we have kits, tools of the trade so to speak. We carry our supplies in packs of ballistic nylon instead of leather or woven twigs and grasses. We do have advantages over primitive man in not only material and construction, but technology as well. Modern equipment is much lighter and packed in smaller packs. In some cases, we can survive on what can fit in our pockets.
Kit Contents
 
     This is an example of a lightweight kit constructed easily even if you are on a budget. I am not saying to build and carry this exact kit. Construct your to suit your needs and your skill level. In my personal opinion, every kit should be different. Each and every one of us are individuals with completely different skill levels, thought patterns, learning curves, and beliefs on what we think and feel a PSK or personal survival kit should be. Please do not build your kit based on how some company or other author says to do it. To put it simply you cannot lump everyone into one category. Think for yourself, you know your own capabilities. It is fine to look to them for advice but check out the equipment before you purchase it. Maybe the tool you had your eye on feels too awkward while using it. Look for a similar tool and try that one. Maybe you can even modify it yourself to better suit you. My point is your kit, is just that, your kit.
    You may see some things in this kit that you would not carry. You may also think there are things missing. If that is the case, build yours how you want it to be. The kits described in this chapter will work. I have put them together to demonstrate the importance of being self-sufficient and carrying some needed equipment. I am also focusing on the sheer cost of gear. There is no reason to spend a ton of money on equipment. There is equipment out there that costs less and is extremely durable. Some military surplus stores are good places to look for these items. I am a big fan of used military gear. In addition, it is possible to make some of it yourself. I do realize we cannot all afford the top of the line. I started out dirt poor myself, this gives me a broad range of knowledge I can share with everyone. I will also be covering some pre- made kits that I personally think are very noteworthy. I believe that for someone just starting out these kits will be indispensable tools. There will also be several types of kits that are home built, these are just to give a broader overall idea as to the contents of personalized survival kits. 
     I have learned that in the southwest most of the bulk weight of your kit will be water. The average is one gallon of water per person per day. 
 
Weight of one US Gallon of water = approx. 8.35 lb.
 
    Consider this while building your kit. I carry two one-quart military surplus canteens and a two-quart military canteen. This equals one gallon. I will also carry a rolled up Government Issue 5 quart bladder canteen in my pack. This gives me extra storage capacity that can be filled later when I find a water supply. Too many other items and your kit will become unbalanced. I have always placed extreme importance on water. However, it is also very heavy. This should be the bulk of your weight.
  
 
     The photo above is an example of one of my kits. This one was put together to suit my needs while teaching basic kit construction and use. This is also to demonstrate differences of items like cordage and fire lighting tools to name a few. All contents pack into the load carry equipment in the upper left corner. I designed this kit to be several kits in one, which I will cover later in this section. This particular kit covers every basic need in a survival situation. These are first aid, shelter and shelter construction, water and water disinfection, fire, food, navigation, and signaling. In the following sections, I will cover a few of the groups of kits that I use as individual kits that make up the PSK. I constructed this kit over 8 years ago and I have since updated my personal survival kit.
     This survival kit has thought of every necessity for a survival emergency. I built it to be lightweight and at the same time leave out heavy bulky items. The main idea is to have items that have multiple uses that you can trust. The contents include:
 
1. Military LBE. This includes a pistol belt, Y-type suspenders, two M16 ammo pouches, a butt pack, first aid pouch, 2 one quart military canteen pouches, and 1 two quart canteen pouch, and 1 .45 holster. This rig will carry everything in your kit and still have plenty of attachment points for anything else you want to add. There is also a Ka Bar attached to the Y style Suspenders. 
 
2. Canteen cup and stove. This makes it possible to boil water and have a container to drink. The stove is a great add on and will allow you to boil water in places where it may be too dry or dangerous to have a campfire. It fits snugly onto the bottom of the canteen cup for simple storage.
 
3. Boonie hat and sunglasses. These are important to protect yourself from the sun's harmful rays. The boonie hat has a brim that wraps all the way around protecting the face, neck, and ears from sunburn. The sunglasses protect the eyes from the sun and dust that maybe blowing in the wind.
 
4. Multi tool with pouch and sharpener. The pouch fits horizontally on a belt making it easier to retrieve the tool when needed. The multi tool is a valued piece of equipment in the field. I do a lot of fieldwork with this. The sharpener is important to keep a working edge on your blades. 
 
5. RAT 7 knife by Ontario Knife is a workhorse you carry on your belt. A good, solid, full tang knife is worth its weight in gold in a survival situation. Your heavy work is done using this tool. These two blades mentioned are just a choice. 
 
6. CRKT M60 Tanto blade. Most of my knives have a combo edge just as the RAT 7 above. Some people do not like the combo edge; this is a matter of opinion. I am partial to them because I personally see them as a time saver when carving notches and grooves for traps and fireboards. I will carry two heavy knives at any given time. This affords a little insurance should one of your blades break, and it does happen. I also prefer to carry two because I can always have one within arm's reach at all times. I attach one to my rig while the other I secure to my belt. If take off my rig and stow it at camp, I still have my back up blade on me. This does not mean to carry all these blades, it is up to you to decide what or how many.
 
7. Bandanas. These are valuable never leave these out of your kit. There are so many uses for a bandanna from wound care to water purification. I will normally carry a couple. They are so inexpensive and lightweight there is no reason not to.
 
8. Chlor Floc Water purification tablets. The U.S. military use these for chlorinating and removing sediment from drinking water. These are great tablets to carry. I carry more than one method or water purification. This will save the use of your equipment.
 
9. Candles in zip lock bags. These have many uses as well. For not only light but also the wax will make a great sealing and waterproofing tool. The zip lock bags will also make water containers or vegetation bags to supplement your water supply. They will melt in the desert heat but are still good to have on hand.
 
10. Military first aid kit. This small self-contained kit carries everything you need for minor injuries while in a survival situation. The hard plastic container will also double as a drinking or eating container. Included are a few items I added such as lip balm, sunscreen, and burn cream.  
 
11. Spare cotton shirt, wool socks, and gloves. I see these things as being very important. The t-shirt can be used as a wound dressing, a head cover, lashing material, making char cloth, or just as a spare clean shirt. There is the old saying that cotton kills. While this is true in the desert, it will also aid in cooling during the hotter times of the year. Also during the winter, it can still get hot during the day. I will wear a cotton t-shirt plain and simple. This is why I will carry extra types of clothing so I will have back up. The socks are a mixture of wool and polypropylene. 
     It is also important to take care of your feet. I do not suggest wearing cotton socks, these do not insulate let alone wick moisture away from your feet. This can lead to fungal and bacterial infections. The gloves are wool liners meant to worn under the military leather glove (not shown) these will offer protection to your hands while picking up rocks, foraging for wild edibles, or for colder conditions. 
 
12. Small items including the 7 in one survival tool. This has a flint striker, compass, match container, cord, whistle, and a mirror (not the best out there I know). Medication bottles containing waterproof matches and char cloth. These are waterproof, wrapped with electrical, and duct tape. A small zip lock bag with drier lint for tinder. A small metal cup, military damp proof matches, a Fresnel lens for lighting fires, a Doans magnesium fire starter with a broken hacksaw blade as a striker, and a film canister containing salt, pepper, sugar, and baking soda. This I will cover later in this book series 
 
13. Assorted bunches of cord for making traps, fishing line, shelter lashing, equipment repairs and anything else you could need cord to accomplish. I highly suggest carrying cord in your survival kit. A 100-foot hank of paracord can easily fit in your cargo pocket.
 
14. This is a waterproof gas mask bag that most of this kit fits in. This can be uses as a floatation device, water container, or even a pillow. Fits very nicely inside the butt pack and folds closed to keep contents dry.
 
15. Two 6-foot sections of aquarium tube for solar still construction. This allows you to drink without tearing the still apart every time you need a drink. Use them as a straw to suck water out of the cracks in rocks were rainwater has settled.
 
16. A small SNUS can to hold small survival items and keep them together in one spot. This will keep all those tiny items from being lost or falling to the bottom of the larger pack. The tin can also be used as a char tin for making char cloth.
 
17. Snare material. This includes G.I. trip wire, cable (small picture frame), and a self-locking snare for trapping small game.
 
18. An 8x8 sheet of plastic. This is cut a little big but it does in fact have three uses. This sheet of plastic can be used as a rain catch, shelter material, and in solar still construction. 
 
19. Bouillon cubes. These are a great addition to any survival kit. These are mixed with warm or hot water to make a soup base or to drink when mixed with water. This will help to warm you on cooler nights as well as help to replace lost electrolytes and it does have some food value. 
 
20. Assorted plastic bags like rolled 55-gallon drum liners with black lawn and leaf bags, and assorted zip locks. These will help to supplement your water supply by using the vegetation and transpiration bags. The 55-gallon drum liners can be filled with forest debris, dried leaves, and grasses then used as a sleeping bag. 
 
21. Canteens. I carry two one quart and one two quart military canteen. This gives me a total capacity of one gallon. General rule of thumb is one gallon of water per person per day. I have in fact gone through a gallon of water in an hour. When it is hot with no shade, this makes it tough on anyone. I also think of these as my fuel tanks. If I drink half of my water, it is time to turn around and go home! This is a good rule to fallow on those 120-degree days.
 
22. A military compress bandage and case. This has a few uses, a first aid dressing, Tinder for lighting fires, and a sediment filter for use in a water filter. There is also a triangular bandage in the first aid kit. This will double as a bandanna.
 
23. An emergency poncho. This can be used for protection from the rain as well as a rain catch. The hood works well as a funnel to channel water into a container.
 
24. A Mini Mag light. I use this to see at night or as an emergency fire starter. There are many different types of lights on the market. Another type of light I prefer is the Streamlight Sidewinder. 
 
25. Two compasses. Always carry two! If you are unsure about the accuracy of one, check it with the other. They both cannot be wrong.
 
26. Soap, toothpaste (Sensodyne), toothbrush, and hand sanitizer in a small package. The soap is used to wash your hands and keep clean if water is abundant. The toothpaste and toothbrush are for oral hygiene. I also like to use the toothpaste for minor burns. Sensodyne is preferred because I have found that this works the best. It will need to be reapplied but for quick relief it will work. The hand sanitizer is for killing bacteria on your hands or as a fire starter. 
 
27. A small signal mirror. Used for daily hygiene or for signaling for rescue. These have a 20-mile visibility during the day.
 
28. A five-quart Military canteen. Use this as a canteen, a flotation device, or a pillow. It is also a great idea to be able to carry additional water once you find it.
 
29. Candy and herbal teas. The candy will aid in electrolyte replacement, give small bursts of energy, and help to reduce thirst when drinking only water. Herbal teas are for cool nights to help you warm up or in early mornings.
 
30. Propel fitness water packets. For a one-quart canteen, it takes two packets to mix these up. I use these while on the go to aid in replacing electrolytes. These can promote bacterial growth in your water container. Disinfecting your drinking water with iodine or chlorine dioxide tablets will destroy these bacteria. For this reason, I do not worry about this issue. 
 
31. Ruger P345 with two magazines, this is optional carry and is mainly for self-defense. There are some people in the desert have bad intentions. Trust me one run in with a crazed dehydrated tweeker and you will understand. This is used mostly while practicing survival skills and is not a good hunting firearm although in can get you a meal. If planning to carry a firearm take the time to get educated on its use, care, and laws. Your firearm can also be used as a signaling device. Just remember Shannon's law. NEVER fire a gun directly into the air. If you are caught, you will do the time, regardless of the situation. 
     Why the .45? I have found that the .45 is probably one of the best rounds available for a handgun. I prefer an automatic to any revolver out there. The bullet is heavy and packs a hell of a punch while not being overkill. I have never been a fan of 9mm or .40 cal's and have never carried ball ammo. My preference is hydra-shock ammo. It is pricey but it will also deliver maximum penetration and transfer all its energy into the target. Also with its small size and lightweight, you can carry this safely on your side until it is needed. My philosophy is "you don't need range in the desert, you need knockdown power" Also, if you can mange I highly suggest carrying a 12-gauge shotgun. I personally prefer 3-inch magnums in the form of slugs and buckshot. 
 
32. Strike force fire starter. This is a great little tool for starting fires. It also has a hollow handle with removable top for tinder storage. It comes with one packet of wet fire when you buy the Strike Force. This is excellent tinder for moist or wet conditions.
 
33. Two spare multi tools. This is a good backup plan. Same as with knives; never carry just one. If they break, and they do, it is important to have a back up. Take the time to choose a good quality tool. These along with your knife are very important items to have in your kit.
 
34.  A small roll of black duct tape. This works wonders for repairs on equipment, lashing, or even first aid. I have used this as flights for arrows and atlatls and for putting together bundle bows.
 
     I constructed this kit with every necessity in mind. I also added comfort items that are not needed but are nice to have on hand. One piece of gear that I did not mentioned in the list of contents was in fact the casualty blanket. Everything in this kit I laid out on this. This makes an excellent shelter and emergency blanket. It has two sides, one is olive drab and the other is reflective silver. The silver side will bounce heat back to you keeping you warmer. In the summer, it will reflect heat away by facing this toward the sun. It also has grommets in each corner making it easy to set up as a shelter. When used with the plastic sheet this makes one warm shelter.
     I have referred to this kit as a camping kit, not too far from the truth. I try to teach my basic classes to the point of treating a survival situation like an extended camping trip. This can keep people much calmer and having the extra equipment on hand can make the life's struggle a little more bearable, especially to a novice. My intent is to keep the love of the wilderness alive instead of scaring people away from it.
     This kit is packed away in a waterproofing bag that fits into the LC2 butt pack. This fully waterproofs your kit and keeps the contents protected from possible total submersion. This can also trap air making it possible to use as an emergency floatation device or additional water storage as mentioned earlier. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 1 Chapter 3
Other Considerations
 
 
     The kit talked about in the last chapter I built over a long period and is one I used to teach basic survival to students. The larger size of the kit gives a lot of insight to the options of different gear that there is available. It covers every base including food, which is an MRE or other type of shelf stable meal. As far as building kits, I can only give you an idea of what to put in to it; the rest is entirely up to you. 
     The next kits Might be small but will give you an idea of some different considerations. Each one of the kits below are for a specific purpose whether it is EDC (every day carry) or an addition to a larger kit. These are great for personal carry as well as being stowed in a vehicle, boat, or aircraft. I also feel that the ability to improvise is important when it comes to kits. I do this if there is an item not present in the kit or if I want to extend the life of an existing item. This is where improvising comes into play. This is actually my go to kit; this kit I prefer to carry in the desert.
 
  
 
     This particular kit I made for an everyday bag. It consists of a Condor 10x4 to hold my Guyot water bottle and GSI cup nests perfectly on top. It has a small sharpener, two compasses, the Tops XC EST Bravo that I will cover later, a small folding Esbit stove, some cord, rolled up plastic bags and sheeting, water purification tablets, and a hammock that ties to the side.
     I use this kit mainly in the spring and summer months while hiking and photographing rattlesnakes. The small Esbit stove is great during fire bans when we cannot have an open fire. My intended use for this kit will cover exactly what I need it to do. Kits should be an extension of your skill set and at the same time carry redundancies.  
     In addition to having your water, which is the key element in the desert, various items can be added. It does not matter what kit it is whether carried in your pockets or around your neck. Having a few basic items available to you when you need them can be a great asset to your wilderness experience.
 
  
 
     The photo above is an example of a small kit that is actually part of my larger kit. I will use this while teaching basic and advanced courses to have needed small items at hand while the larger kit is stowed at camp. While teaching I really cannot afford to have my hands full so I quickly took six important items and put them on a ball chain to solve the issue. I added a whistle, a small folding saw for cutting small branches and other sticks for trap demonstrations. I added a compass for different navigation exercises, a small ferro rod with mag bars and a p38 can opener as a striker. A small folding pocketknife for small cutting tasks, and a trapping, fishing, and water purification kit in that fits inside an earplug case. Each item can be removed from the necklace and put back on. This is also important for the compass so the metal will not interfere with the needle. 
     These small items are carried in conjunction with my water bottle and large sheath knife. It lightens up my at hand gear allowing me to move quicker and teach more effectively when it comes to my basic classes. When not in use this can be taken off my neck and placed in a pouch on my pack or in a pocket. I have found this to be a very useful way to carry small items and keep them where I need them. This kit will also do the same for the average survivalist or outdoorsman. 
     Few kits out there that I recommend are ready made. Granted there are not many but, one I can personally stand behind is the Gear Pods. 
 
  
 
     As far as design and functionality goes James Davies the President and CEO of Gear Pods did an amazing job. The kit fits into a ballistic nylon sleeve with an outer pouch that will hold a number of items. There are also MOLLE attachment points on one side of the sleeve. The kit comes in sections called pods that hold a variety items. They are held together by large connectors with terminators at each end to keep the components inside and make the kit waterproof. 
     Each section contains a specific kit. Kits in this particular Gear Pods are first aid, shelter, survival, and a cooking kit. Each comes in a nylon bag with draw cord closures.  This keeps each individual kit itemized and organized so you know exactly what kit you are grabbing. Each pod is marked with the specific kit that goes inside.
     When I took this kit and used it on a 24-hour test, I found it to have all the necessities available. The first aid kit is fully stalked with ointments, band-aids, insect repellant, poison oak and ivy relief and cleansing wipes, blister care, sunscreen, and a host of other items. The shelter kit was complete with a silicone impregnated tarp, plenty of cord, and a space blanket. 
      The next morning when I got up it was below 30 degrees. I got my fire going and decided to try out the cooking kit. I brought along some spiced apple cider and fired up the stove with one of the two supplied Esbit fuel tablets. The cider came to a boil long before the fuel had burned out. The cup has a fiberglass band around the top for safe and easy removal from the stove. I sat and warmed up with the spiced cider reflecting on the experience with this kit. I was very happy with how it preformed and everything was set up. There was a real ease of use with this particular kit.  
  
 
     In the above photo, the kit is broken down and laid out to show the different components and how large this kit really is. The items inside are high quality will last for quite some time. Notice the pods these will also give you cups for drinking as well as bowls to eat soups, stews, or other food that has been prepared in the field. 
     Next, I will go over the actual survival kit that comes with the Gear Pods. As mentioned earlier it has a shelter kit, which is a necessary component to a survival kit. Inside the kit, its self it covers fire, water and water disinfection, trapping and fishing, and signaling for rescue and equipment and clothing repair.
 
  
 
 
Contents:
 
1. 2"x3" Rescue Flash signal mirror with plastic sleeve to protect the reflective surface. 
2. Fox 40 micro safety whistle.
3. Spark Light one hand operated fire starter.
4. Tinder-quick waterproof and weatherproof tinder.
5. NATO storm matches with striker. These are wind and waterproof.
6. 20mm Liquid filled button compass.
7. Mini keychain LED flashlight. Battery life is 24 hours of continuous use.
8. Light to medium use lightweight folding saw. This makes a great ferro rod striker.
9. Light to medium use folding razor blade.
10. 6 Katadyn Micropure-1 water disinfection tablets.
11. 36 oz self-standing water bag.
12. Heavy duty needle for clothing and equipment repair in the field.
13. 50 ft reel of 10 lb bs thread for sewing or fishing.
14. 2 safety pins for repairs, first aid, or for improvised hooks for fishing.
15. 8 ft of 0.02" stainless steel non-magnetic wire for snares.
16. 25 ft 70lb bs braided nylon cord for shelter construction, securing equipment, snaring small game, bank line for fishing. This stuff has endless uses.
17. Small fishing kit with 4 hooks, 2 split shots, and one snap swivel.
18. 2"x30" 9mm duct tape. This stuff has millions of uses.
19. 4 2"x3" weatherproof sheets of paper for notes, logs, and patrol maps
20. Pencil with protective cap.
21. 2"x3" Fresnel lens for fire starting.  
22. Waterproof tear proof instructions.
23. Stuff sack made of nylon.
 
     Next is the cooking kit. I got a couple of options with this. The first was the stove with the Esbit fuel tablets. The second is the Gear Pods alcohol stove with fuel bottle. The Esbit fuel tablets burn hot and last a long time. They will burn long enough and hot enough to cook an entire meal. The alcohol stove lasted around 7 minutes. That is long enough to boil 8 oz of water. In the event that there was no fuel left for the stove, you can build a small fire under it, cook, and heat water that way. In my opinion, this is a very good item to have on hand. While on the move, having a stove is worthwhile.
 
  
 
  Above is a photo of the cooking kit with the cup, fuel, aluminum wind guard, stove (inside the windscreen), and lid. The cup allows you to hold it while it is hot and with the lid, you can safely drink hot liquids without worry of spilling. It has a straw hole in the top that will aid with those that have injuries that cannot otherwise drink.
     The Gear Pods alcohol stove is made of anodized aluminum and fits neatly inside the stove making it a dual fuel stove. This will hold .8 oz of denatured alcohol, this will bring 8 oz of water to a boil under normal conditions. It is filled with a 4 oz plastic fuel bottle. I chose both options for my cooking kit so I would more options when it came to fuel. The fuel bottle and alcohol burner are optional equipment for the Gear Pods cooking kit. The 4 oz bottle and 2  inch diameter burner will fit just about anywhere for easy carry.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 1 Chapter 4
 Fire Kits and Signaling Devices
 
 
     A fire kit is constructed with multiple fire starting items. This usually consists of matches, ferro rods, tinder, or even a lighter. It is put together with more than one method of starting a fire to save wear and tear on your supplies. This means the less a particular item is used the longer it will last. This is only one of the fire kits; there will be more kits and more explanation later on in the fire section of this series. I have had students build and use this exact kit and they really liked the components. Not a lot of people care for the use of let alone will they carry matches. They say they are no good and if the striker gets wet, you are screwed. I also hear a lot about how the wind affects them. I have found a solution to this problem. My good friend Stave Slack has come up with a waterproof match striker called the Stryke-All. This combined with waterproof windproof matches is a hell of an addition to a fire kit. Also keep in mind most people that travel to foreign countries will find that there is no place to get the favored lighter let alone a ferro rod, matches are all there is. With this in mind, I have learned to appreciate matches and their place in my kits. 
     This is an example of some of the fire starting tools and materials that a fire kit can consist of. This is to ensure that you will have a fire and your supplies will last a good long time. With the addition of the candles, it makes for a very versatile kit. The candles are used while inside a shelter to give a little extra warmth and light. When using candles inside a shelter be very vigilant and watch the flame. There is a lot of controversy over using such items or having an open flame in a shelter. 
Contents of the fire kit:
 
1. Large emergency candles. 
2. Small tea candles. 
3. Damp proof military matches from an MRE accessory pack.
4. A medication bottle with strike anywhere matches. The container is waterproof, and the matches were dipped in wax to seal and waterproof the striking surface. There are also two types of tape, electrical and duct tape wrapped around the bottle for use in repairs or with certain projects. However, one overlooked issue with wooden and paper matches, once the stick gets wet it will ruin the match. This is because of the capillary action of the wood drawing water up and under the match head. When this happens, it will ruin the match all together. 
5. Trioxane fuel bars, you really cannot have too much of this stuff.
6. Magnesium fire starter with a hacksaw blade striker. 
7. Strike force. This is a great fire starter; it has a large Ferro cerium rod that has a very hot spark. Yes another ferro rod! Back up back up back up, I cannot stress it enough. 
8. Military plastic waterproof match container. The focus is to show the ferro rod on the bottom. This is used as a fire starter, I do however find this one to be a little difficult to use effectively.  
9. Fresnel lens. This makes one of the best fire starters on the planet. The drawback is you have to have sunlight in order to use it.   
10. Drier lint. Keep this stuff; it makes some good tinder. It catches a spark and lights very easily. Keep it dry or mix with Vaseline to make it waterproof, I use a small waterproof vial to store this.  A very good addition to this kit would be to use cotton balls soaked with Vaseline. These are basic but awesome!
 
  
 
     This kit is very simple and straightforward. It has everything in it to get a fire going. Again, with matches I myself carry these because they do have their place. They work and have worked for over 140 years. They must however be protected. This is why there is more than one method of starting a fire. Should the matches get wet there is a ferro rod or even a magnifying lens. If the sun is not out there are ways around the magnifying lens and so on and so forth. From my experience, this kit works very well for the desert. I have also had people ask why not just carry a lighter. Lighters are good, very good in fact. I have found that if they get wet, they have to be dried in order to work and if they get too cold, they will not work. They need to be kept warm and next to the body to prevent them from becoming too cold.     
Signaling Kits and Devices
 
    These kits are for signaling rescuers or would be rescuers. They should be kept in easy reach at all times. This kit can consist of a signal mirror, strobe lights, light sticks, whistles, or even a satellite rescue beacon. I chose to go simple and inexpensive with mine. I added two signal mirrors, one us government issued signal mirror with a sight hole for easy aiming, and a cheap glass mirror. Careful with glass mirrors they can easily break. I also added a light stick. This can be tied to a Piece of string and whorled in the air to get the attention of possible rescuers. There are hundreds of signaling devices available. This is an example of a lightweight, inexpensive kit. 
 
  
 
     The items above are laid out to demonstrate a couple of good items and a couple of not so good. Let us start out with the orange 7 in one survival tool. I have found several things wrong with it. I do like the match case; it works and does exactly what it is supposed to do. However, the signaling aspects of this item are not up to par in my opinion. The signal mirror is too small and recessed inside the cap making difficult for the average person to signal with it effectively. The whistle is a pea whistle. Spring and summer, it is not a big deal but when we get to the colder times of year that pea inside will freeze while you are using it. The moisture from your breath will form ice in the inside of the chamber and around the pea. This keeps the whistle from working all together making it junk. There are other shortcomings but I will stick to these for now. Next on the far right, we have a good-sized mirror in a plastic sleeve. It works really well and I find it to the perfect size for kit carry. The drawback is it is made of glass. I do not think we need to bring that type of superstition in the field with us. If it falls, it will break. 
     Next, we have a large signal mirror made from a hard polycarbonate reason with a sighting hole in the center. This is a good mirror to carry. The large surface area gives more reflective surface while aiming becomes a little easier with the ability to sight in and targets your rescuers. The next item is a glow stick. These can bring attention to rescuers when they are actively searching for you and are in sight. This can be quickly snapped attached to a cord and swung in a circular motion. The light is bright enough to be seen from up to 3,000 feet in the air. From a plane or helicopter, the ground will appear blackened at night. The color of light emitted from the light stick give good contrast to this background. Swinging this in a circular motion will give the needed movement to go with the contrast for an effective signal.   
 
  
 
     Next, we will cover lights. Two are very good streamlights and are very bright. They have features that allow you to control the light from the brightness to flashing with different color settings. These lights are bright and can be seen at altitude. They will attract the attention of pilots that are searching for you. One unlikely candidate to be used as a signaling device is the Steripen. This is a water-disinfecting device that uses ultraviolet light to scramble the DNA of pathogens to prevent them from reproducing. 
     The signaling feature of this tool is the water sensor. If it is not in water, it will flash like a strobe light. When this is activated, it will flash and can be seen from altitudes of just over 3,000 feet. This is an effective height for rescuers to spot you on the ground or to stay visible should you have someone else with you. I am not an advocate of leaving camp at night for any reason but should you need to mark your camp or highlight a trail these can come in very handy. 
 
  
 
     Now we have Skyblazer flares. They work with a pull chain to fire the projectile in to the sky. It will then deploy a small parachute that will allow the flare to fall to earth slowly giving rescuers time to spot it and pin point your general location. I do have some reservations about using flares for signaling; they are hot and they burn. While they are highly effective, they pose a serious fire hazard. These can also accidentally discharge in your kit so be very careful. I carry these in my kit for use in snow or otherwise wet weather. In the dry months it is foolish to risk a huge forest fire just be rescued. I have had students tell me that they would just pay the fine. Not that easy, if a fire gets away from you are in serious life changing trouble. It does not matter the circumstances. Signaling with lasers and other tools that are considered illegal in other scenarios can be over looked, while the fires on the other hand cannot. That is why education of the different types of signals is so important. Also, understand most search and rescue personnel do not search at night unless you are in the military or the Coast Guard is looking for you. The reason for this is it is very dangerous for SAR and Civil Air Patrol; they do not usually have the sophisticated equipment that the military has. This makes active nighttime searching very dangerous. With that in mind, it is still possible to signal at night. There are possible hunters and campers that may see your signal. You may be able to spot a highway or a back road that is traveled at all times. In addition, you could have someone else with you and it is important to maintain some kind of contact at all times should you become separated. This is where careful planning during a survival situation comes in to play. You both must be on the same page. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 1 Chapter 5
First Aid and Skin Care Items
 
 
     First aid kits are extremely important and should not be left out of any survival plan. These allow you to take care of minor to severe injuries depending on how in depth you construct your first aid kit. No matter what your first aid kit should consist of painkillers like Tylenol, aspirin, ibuprofen or naproxen. You should also have a supply of anti-diarrheal, and Benadryl. I will cover this a little later. You should also have iodine, alcohol wipes, surgical gloves, thermometer, assorted gauze, bandages, and tape, ace bandage, bandannas, and topical antiseptics and burn treatments. Insect repellants and sunscreens are an added bonus for any first aid kit. 
     There are also ways of alternate first aid. Nature provides a lot of useful medicine that can and will benefit us in a survival situation. Many modern drugs were derived from plants. Many of these taught to us by indigenous tribes from around the world. These people have been using natural medicine for millennia with real results. In a later book, I will cover some of the local plants of the southwest that can in fact be used as medicine. I will also cover some other means of first aid that are very affective and can save your life. 
 
  
 
      This is the military personal first aid kit. It consists of a hard plastic case, a triangular bandage, band-aids, and eye care kit, compress bandage, and two medicine bottles. These contain pain medicine, anti-histamines, and anti-diarrheal divided by a cardboard insert (not shown). I added a large compress bandage at left and a squeeze bottle for iodine.  This great basic kit contains most of what you need. The rest can easily be added. 
      I also like to have a kit that can be used for other uses as well while in the field. The hard plastic container I have used as a drinking and eating container. Keep in mind when you buy these they are sold as non-sterile. If used to eat or drink make sure it is cleaned thoroughly before and after use. If the items inside are wrapped in plastic and the seal is not compromised they are usually fine unless it is a perishable item. I have replaced the triangular bandage after using it as a head cover. This item is nice to have on hand in the heat. It can be soaked and used the same way as a bandanna. I have even filtered water with it.  
Gear Pods First Aid Kit
 
  
 
     This kit can be purchased separately or together with the gear pods survival kit. This kit covers some of the needed items to take care of the small wounds and minor discomforts one may encounter in the wilderness. This kit will cover everything from burns, minor cuts and abrasions, stings, contact dermatitis, headaches, fevers, diarrhea, splinters, thorns, and even blisters. Anyone with basic knowledge of first aid can successfully use this kit. I personally have used many of the items in this kit to take care of minor issues in the field. While I was filming the review and test of the original Gear Pods, I had cut my thumb on the folding razor that comes in the survival kit. I was able to very quickly clean and dress the wound with the supplied items.    
     I highly stress that everyone caries with them in their kit. Regardless of what kit you decide to build or buy, you should always add an EpiPen. You do not have to be allergic to bees in order carry the EpiPen; anything can trigger anaphylactic shock. This auto injector will deliver a dose of 0.3 milligrams of epinephrine to combat anaphylaxis. Ask your Dr. for a prescription he will most likely give you one especially if you travel the backcountry.  
 
  
 
     Above is a photo of the EpiPen Auto Injector. My Dr for my bee allergy gave this one to me. I do however carry two of these in my cargo pocket so I can quickly get to them if I need them. A word of warning, do not give your auto injector to someone else and do not administer this to another individual, federal law prohibits this. These will save your life I the field but keep your eye on the expiration date and rotate them when needed.  
 
  
 
     A friend sent this kit to me. For a basic comfort kit that will prove a blessing in the field this one is great. For itching, contact dermatitis, sunscreen, burns, lip protection, and stings I will not be without this kit. I keep this one in the console of my truck and it is there if I need it. 
     Fortunately, I am not allergic to poison ivy or oak; but my wife is. Having the ability to use this kit for pre contact prevention or after you, come in contact is priceless. The lip balm in the desert is very important especially to tourists that are not used to how dry the desert is. I remember when I first moved to Arizona my lips dried out so bad that they actually started bleeding. Chap Stick I went and got a tube of Chap Stick and fixed the problem. There are still times where I am in the field and I have been drinking nothing but water for days and the heat takes its toll. You will learn quickly how important it is to have this stuff. 
     Some of the classes I used to teach were in riparian areas. The abundance of moisture makes it a perfect haven for mosquitoes and other biting insects. Insect repellant wipes are very handy to have on hand. I have used them, rolled them back up, and put it back into the wrapper for later use. I found I could get a couple of uses out of one towelette. I know I am cheap! 
     I added fingernail clippers to my kit. Fingernail clippers alone have saved me a lot grief in the field. While gathering materials for shelter or even firewood I have split fingernails and just pulled them off. This is a sucky situation! Not only did I cause further pain that I did not need to go through I made an avenue for possible infection. By just clipping the fingernail, it cuts down on all of these. These will even remove splinters if you are careful enough not to cut it in half before it is removed.
     The next first aid kits I will be covering are for people with more advanced first aid and medical training. These like all the other kits I have mentioned are great for pack carry but can also be kept inside your vehicle. I highly recommend that you carry a first aid kit with you everywhere you go. You never know you may save someone else's life, or at the very least be able to help someone that has been hurt. Just do not forget your gloves.
     I put the next kit together over a period of months. There are as with many other first aid kits, items that will expire. Keep your eye on these dates. Keep your kit fresh and replace what needs to be replaced. Some components can be a little pricey but are extremely important to have on hand. A lot of us have families as well. There is no substitute for a good well-stocked first aid kit no matter what the situation.  
     This is a large kit and Ill cover the contents as I go along. I found this suited for classes and when my family goes into the wilderness with me. No matter if it is just a camping trip or if we are practicing our survival and primitive skills. Accidents happen, you just never know when a serious emergency my rear its ugly head. 
 
  
 
     Packed inside of two British Army gas mask bags these can be carried over your shoulder. This will allow for very quick grab and go capabilities. Each of the contents is packed inside of very heavy duty Ziploc bags. I can easily see through these to get the item I need when I need it. Anything from a Tylenol to a heavy compress bandage is all visible and protected from the elements. There are also many redundancies in this kit. I have butterfly closures as well as waterproof tape that these closures can be made. Gloves and a CPR rescue mask, two pairs of EMT shears, a small roll up tape measure, as well as light sticks.
     The field surgical kit is very handy and is very important for the amount tools it has. This will remove splinters, aid in suturing (Ill touch on this shortly), holding gauze, even dental emergencies where first aid is needed. The pen light is also a lifesaver not only for checking for concussions but for looking inside the mouth for cracked teeth or other injuries. 
 
  
 
     As you can see from the photo, there is a lot of equipment in this particular kit. Some of my friends have dubbed it the "I Really Messed Up Kit" for reasons of my own. I have been cut and stabbed so many times while out the desert I have lost count. It happens, with all the knife safety in the world it is still going to happen. I have even had to give myself sutures in the field. I however do not recommend doing this. The reason is that any little thing gets into that cut you will have a problem. I have been lucky so far and I have not. The only time I have had an issue is when the Dr. sews me up. The outdoors is not very sanitary to say the least, especially where people are concerned. One drop of the gauze on your tailgate or worse on the ground it is contaminated. Microorganisms love warm dark places to reproduce. That is what is provided inside your cut or under your bandage. The fact of the matter is if you can simply stop bleeding, clean out the cut, and protect it until you get to the hospital you are much better off. In the mean time you can change the bandage and clean out the wound when needed in the field. 
     In this kit, I have several different types of gels, creams, and ointments. These are for burns, bites, stings, irritations, cuts, abrasions, or even punctures.
 
Moleskin for blisters; this stuff is a miracle to have on hand. 
Ankle braces and knee braces, I have found that ankle and knee injuries are very common while traveling the desert.
Yellow exposure blanket, this can be used to warm a hypothermic victim or soaked and fanned for a hyperthermic person.   
 
  
 
     Ace bandages with assorted sizes. These speak for themselves. Sprains, immobilizing an injured limb, snakebite, head injuries, the list can go on and on. Assorted adhesive bandages with gauze pads and rolls. These are for aiding in the stopping of bleeding to protecting and covering an injury. 
     There are several types of trauma dressings, triangular bandages, arm slings, shoulder braces. The trauma dressings are great for large area injuries and can be laid down between the ground and the injury. The triangular bandages, arm slings, and shoulder braces are for immobilization. Not used for field setting breaks and dislocations, but to immobilize the injured extremity until rescue can arrive. Tongue depressors: for checking the throat and mouth to splinting fingers in the field. These can also be used to roll the eyelid to see foreign objects or debris in the eye. 
     CPR masks and protective gloves this one is a given. If you are helping someone else this can stop the spread of blood borne pathogens. If your hands are dirty, you can also carefully put surgical gloves on to aid in the prevention of infection. 
     Cough drops, aspirin, ibuprophen, Tylenol, assorted painkillers (Dr. Prescribed) as well as antibiotics, again Dr. prescribed, oral rehydration salts, and anti diarrhea. These are for pain, fevers, diarrhea, infections, and coughs. Warning: if someone is bleeding or has been bleeding, do not give aspirin. This thins the blood making it harder for the blood to clot. Imagine working hard to get the bleeding to stop only to have it start up again because you gave an aspirin. Ibuprophen can also be extremely dangerous. Do not give this if there is a danger of extreme dehydration. This can seriously damage the liver and kidneys. Tylenol can also be dangerous in these situations but is safer than ibuprophen. 
     There are many items as well as many additional uses. There is also a lot of technical information that could go into this. I know people that will be reading this and literally shouting at the book different technical terms and why you should not do a certain thing. That is not what this section is for. I will be working on a full first aid book in the future. I know I will be met with some hostility toward that book. I do not care; they are techniques I have personally used in the wilderness to get me home. Ultimately, it is entirely up to you to get the necessary training in CPR and First Aid. In addition, I am not a Dr or a paramedic. I cannot legally dispense medical advice. In the first aid book, there will be some. However, there will also be a very large disclaimer. 
     It is imperative to have the ability to stop bleeding. Depending on how the injury happened, the person helping could also be injured. Cases like this direct pressure maybe hard to maintain or the bleeding could be extreme enough to warrant additional aid. Whatever the case may be the bleeding must be stopped. In the past, I have used campfire ashes, cat claw seedpods, yarrow, and powdered oak bark to stop minor bleeding in the field. It works, yet I have heard opposition to this. As I have said, I have personally done it several times with no ill effects at all. For serious bleeding, I recommend carrying Quick Clot. This stuff comes packed in an absorbent sponge that will stop serious bleeding very quickly. 
 
  
 
     These granules promote clotting on contact. I have seen tests on pigs when the femoral artery is literally severed. The Quick Clot sponge is packed into the wound and the bleeding stops. This stuff is a real lifesaver and I feel it should be carried by everyone regardless if they travel the backcountry or not. The scab or seal this creates must however be removed by trained medical personnel (surgically). This is a small price to pay to live to see the hospital in the first place. In addition, I also feel this stuff is over used. I have heard reports of people using this stuff for non-arterial bleeding. This can complicate a wound making issues much worse. Use it for major arterial bleeding as it was designed for.   
 










Section 1 Chapter 6
Your Knives and Tools
 
 
     The single most important piece of equipment you will carry is your knife. Everything you do, make, or even construct is done with this tool. I see it as being your lifeline, plain and simple. Your knife should be of good quality, do not skimp on this. A good heavy full tang knife cannot be cheap especially if you are placing your life on the line. Just think of it as life insurance for the bush. If you are on a budget, do not go less than 60 bucks for your knife as a rule and make sure you have a back up. The higher priced knives are put to some rigorous standards all the way down the molecular make up of the steel used in its construction. Do not get me wrong there several great knives that are inexpensive. Personally I would not use them as survival knives because they are for bushcraft, and usually not full tang, and I personally believe they cannot stand up to the abuse that an actual survival situation will add.
     Take into consideration your location and were you will be using your knife. For salt areas carbon steel is not a good choice due to the fact that it tarnishes very easily. For this go with stainless steel. You can easily find good quality knives that will hold up very well under these conditions. For everywhere else I prefer carbon steel; simply because it holds a good edge and can be sharpened easily on just about any stone or flat rock. They can also throw a good spark to get a fire going when using quartzite, chert, agates, and jaspers. 
Beginning Knife Sharpening
 
     For sharpening a knife, I prefer a three-stage system. I use these primarily as a home base sharpener. I personally prefer to step sharpen, meaning to go from a coarse stone to a fine stone or soft to hard. The stones I use are Arkansas stones and are mined in the Ozark Mountains. Start with the soft stone with a liberal amount of honing oil and hold the blade at the factory angle on the cutting edge. Start at the point of the knife to the heel of the blade. Push the blade with hard even pressure along the length of the stone. This will give you your finger edge. For an even finer edge, I go to a hard stone and repeat the steps as said before.
     Do you use water or oil on your stones? In my opinion, it depends on a couple of things. If you plan to use your stone while outdoors use water. The reason being is that oil and water do not mix. If you use oil stick with oil, oil will not allow the water penetrate the stone. Water is more abundant than oil in the field. In addition, I use a brush on my stone at home. Why? As I said before I use it at home, it does not go into the field with me. While sharpening the stone will release a powder, the oil makes this powder stick to the stone. It is a little like running your blade into sand. At home, I just wipe it off with a rag or just brush it off. Using just water allows you to rinse the stone washing away this powder.
     In the field, I do use three things to care for my blades. I carry two stones, one coarse, and one fine. These I will use only water to sharpen my blades. I also carry a speedy sharp. This is a neat tool in my opinion. I will cover some of my stones and the speedy sharp as well as how I use them. First, I will cover my two fieldstones, as I like to refer to them. My coarse stone is simply a large double-sided aluminum oxide stone with a coarse and medium stone that I broke in half. This was done on purpose to save space and weight. This also gives me a couple of extra stones set back in the event I wear out the first stone. The second stone is a fine Arkansas stone. 
 
  
 
     The Speedy Sharp is a piece of carbide steel on a handle that makes for restoring a quick usable edge to cutting tools. It works by shaving the metal off the edge in less than millimeter increments. You still have to work the edge with a stone at home or at base camp to ensure an even edge. Do not rely on just this tool to sharpen your knife. I use this specifically for edge repair should I get a nick or ding in the blade. This will leave a rough uneven edge and over time will damage the metal making it harder to repair. I have even seen people completely ruin their blades with this tool, be careful while using it! 
     This tool is carried in the sheath along with my multi tool. This is a good piece of equipment and if used properly it will last a lifetime. The Speedy sharp will also double as a ferro rod striker. The tungsten carbide cutter on the sharpener will throw some serious showers of sparks.  
     The Arkansas Tri Hone has to be one of my favorite sharpening systems. It is simple, functional, and inexpensive. The three stone set up allows you to repair an edge properly and put a razors edge on a blade. The Arkansas Tri hone has a set of three stones, coarse, medium, and fine. I use the coarse stone after severe abuse of a blade when I need restore the cutting edge. I will then follow up with the medium then the fine. The medium and fine I will use to sharpen the knife after light to moderate use. This is then followed by stropping. This is done to remove the burr that forms on the edge of the blade after using any sharpening system. I do this on a 1x4 inch piece of leather that is glued to a 1x4 cut for this purpose. I like to use jewelers rouge or buffing compound on the leather for stropping. This makes a 2,000 to 2,500-grit material that will remove the burr giving you a razors edge.
  Sharpening your knife is not as difficult as it has been made out to be. Each knife has an angle to the cutting edge. Weather it is 22, 20, 15, or less it does not matter. This is your job to find the angle. Personally, I do not use fancy sharpening systems to accomplish a razors edge on my blades. I do a few steps and I am done. First, I just decide the degree of edge maintenance needed by the amount of work I did with the blade. I can also tell if the edge is simply rolled or if it has been seriously dulled. If the edge has simply rolled, I will strop it with my leather pad and some compound. I will go over this shortly. If I have serious edge damage or a knife that is as dull as a butter knife, I will start with the coarse stone on my Arkansas Tri Hone. This allows me to re-profile the cutting edge and restore it to the factory angle. From there I will progress to harder and harder stones to refine my edge back into working condition. Once I achieve my finger edge, I will strop the blade to remove the burr that forms on the edge. This burr we have all felt; this is what makes the blade feel sharp on one side but not the other. Stropping removes this burr, rather straightens out the steel to a polished razor sharp edge.
     Depending on the amount of edge care I need I can start on a harder stone. On my tri hone with three stones, I can choose what stone I need to start with. For field maintenance, I will use the Speedy Sharp like mentioned before or a double sided round stone I got from Pro Tool Industries. This allows me to maintain the blade while I am using it. 
     In many cases getting a razors edge is just too sharp. The reason is the edge being so thin it will roll while you are using the blade. My philosophy on sharpening is simple, my carving blades will have a razors edge, and my workhorses will be sharp enough. This may be confusing but it is very simple. If you carve with your blade, you need to be able to pop hairs from your arm. This will ensure you can remove wood in very fine increments without digging in and really marring up the project. A workhorse knife is the opposite. This is for chopping, scraping, and doing general camp chores, what I like to call roughing in. I will use my workhorse blade to harvest the material I will carve with my carving blade.    
  
     Above is an illustration of a blade being sharpened, you can see the bevel on the cutting edge being placed on the stone. Weather it is a Scandinavian, convex, flat, or saber grind this angle is easy to find. I place the edge of the blade on the stone and gently rock it back and forth. I can feel it hit the flat of the edge. Once I find this, I know I have the proper angle and can begin sharpening. With the edge facing away from me, I will apply slight downward pressure and push the blade as if I am shaving slices off the stone. I start at the heel of the blade and go to the tip or vise a versa, repeating this 3 to 5 times on each side. I will feel the edge by going across the blade with my finger. If I need more work I will continue these steps, if needed I will move to the next stone. 
     Stropping can be done to repair a rolled edge or as a final step to sharpening. I strongly suggest that everyone ether buy or make a strop. Making one is very simple. Find some leather, place it flesh side up and glue it to a board. Trim off the excess if desired and you are ready. When using a strop you will need to apply a paste. This is why I will place the flesh side up; it will hold this paste much better than the smooth side of the leather. There is a lot of stropping compounds on the market. I personally like to go to the hardware store and buy buffing compound. This comes in a stick that allows you to apply it to the strop. The compound is abrasive and is a lot like using 2,000 grit sand paper. You are still removing metal from the edge, which will give it a polished finish.
     To start stropping your blade you will go the opposite direction as you did while sharpening. You will still have the angle of the edge on the strop but instead pushing away, you will be pulling toward you with the spine of the blade facing you. You will repeat this 3 to 5 times on one side then flip the blade over and do the same thing. 
 
  
      The above illustration is an example of the blade being stropped. Notice the arrow pointing the direction of the blade across the surface. In addition, I prefer to start at the heel of the blade and work my way to the point. Once you are done check your blade on a piece of paper. I razor sharp blade will slice through with no effort. By looking at the paper, you can tell if there is still a burr on the edge. The cut should be smooth with no fibers. If there are any fibers showing on the cut paper continue stropping.  I will also do this process to store my blades until the next use. I will maintain the edge then apply a little wax to the blade if it is an uncoated carbon steel blade and put the knife away. That way it will all ready for the next time I need to use it.
     Some other tools I use I will sharpen a little differently. Axes for example I will use a round stone and use both sides while going in a circular motion. I have also found that this motion will work well for field sharpening machetes and other large cutting tools. Stropping these types of tools is not necessary because of the way the tools are used. As mentioned earlier workhorse tools will dull out much faster if the edge is shaving sharp. On occasion after a lot of hand sharpening, I will strop the edge to razor shaving sharp. The reason is so I can fully maintain a factory edge on the tool with no burrs or nicks in the blades. Some tools will have a funny shape to the blade like a billhook or a curved bush-cutting blade. These can be a challenge to sharpen. I will maintain the edge the same way with these as I do with the axe. When I reach the curved part of the blade, I will use the edge of the stone. Turning it up on its side will make the stone conform more to the curve of the blade than the full flat surface.
 
   
     In the illustration, you can see the axe edge being sharpened with the round stone. I find sharpening this type of tool in a circular motion allows me to cover the full edge of the blade as well as the full surface of the stone. When doing this I will usually start in the center of the blade and work my way to one side and back to the other. I will then flip the blade over and repeat this. 
 The knives I will discuss are what I call high-end knives. I trust these blades with my life undoubtedly. They can and will stand up to severe abuse and ask for more. This is the reason I put my name on a few of them. The companies that made them are phenomenal as far as craftsmanship, dependability, and quality. First, let me start by telling you how I got into to designing knives. It was not easy and most companies will not accept a design unless you have some kind of marketability. This means you must stand out in your field and have a following of some numbers behind you. I was able to gain this though my YouTube channel. Over time, I became pretty well known in the survival community. In the beginning, I never thought I would see a knife with my name on it let alone articles in magazines. For some this is what they want. For me it just came with the territory and was an added bonus for what I was trying to do. Just being able to write these books and design knives is enough for me. The added exposure is what helps to push the products. In time, I will be designing new knives and writing more books as well as releasing DVDs. These projects make it possible to do the things in life I feel are important. Besides, if we cannot enjoy what we do what is the point in doing it? 
     The blades from TOPS knives, Pro tool Industries, and Samuel Staniforth are in my opinion lifetime knives. If you buy one of their knives, you will have it for the rest of your life. Try them out for yourself and you will see exactly what I am talking about. These collaboration projects have proven to be very fulfilling in the sense that I can really put my artistic touch on the blades. I can also base a design around what I feel I would use on a knife and what features I feel will work.
Your Knife
 
    To start things off with the knife section I wanted talk a little about a knife that I am proud to be a part of. This is the brothers of bushcraft Knife from TOPs knives. This is a little different than most of TOPS other blades in their line. All the brothers of Bushcraft designed this. Each of us put a feature on this blade. So far from using this knife, I am hooked. Its modified Scandi grind tops it off and give a wonderful function to its overall feel.
 
  
 
     Above is a photo of the Fieldcraft Knife. With it is a trigger peg I carved to a variation of the dead lift fulcrum snare. Using this blade came naturally with an almost instant feeling of being an extension of the hand. It is fitted with Micarta handle scales with a built in bow drill divot. I find that using this divot in the desert is perfect. Most of the spindles I like to use are the right size for this. On the rear of the tang, a ferro rod striker is called the Shango notch. This was given its name because of Joe Flowers Knife the Shango also made by TOPs. I find this must be kept sharp. By using a diamond rod this keeps the Shango notch ready to go. The 1095 high carbon blade is coated and heat-treated to 58/59 RC. It will hold an edge and is very easy to sharpen. 
     The sheath is made of Kydex with a piggyback for a TOPs exclusive ferro rod. There is a black ball chain that comes with this set up. However, I find it makes a little too much racket so I replaced it with parcord. The sheath also has a steel spring clip that allows the knife to be removed without taking off your belt. While in the field, there is no bigger pain than having to remove your belt just to take off the knife. In many cases I do not even know it's there until I need it.
     As far as my thoughts on this blade go, I personally feel it is a bushcraft knife on steroids. Once you buy one you will not have to buy another blade for as long as you live. I have used it for carving trap triggers, cleaning fish, and even in the kitchen at home. For quartering whole chickens, it handles like a dream. I cannot see there actually being a better multipurpose knife out there.
 
  
 
     This is the TOPS Smoke Jumper. It was designed with these wild land firefighters in mind. Its overall design is made to handle severe abuse. The point of the blade can be used for prying wood apart. I have used this blade to remove bark from downed trees to look for edible insects as well as fire tinder. I have also decimated large logs by prying them apart with this knife. At a  inch thick, this beast of a cutting tool does not care. Keep in mind when I mention prying with my blades I am not prying at the tip. I am wedging the blade in much further and using more of the blade.
     It comes in a Kydex sheath that securely locks the knife inside. It also has a lanyard and clip to add further security in case you need to jump from an aircraft. In the photo, I added a wrap of paracord around the sheath as well as a bit of cord to secure the sheath to my leg while it is in use. The pouch was added to hold a variety of items like ferro rods, small folding saws, multi tools, or just about anything, that needs to be readily assessable. Ranger bands and two Velcro straps hold it on. It has been on my side for great periods with no issues. The sheath is secured to your belt with a spring steel clip that will allow you to put the knife on or remove the knife without taking off your belt. 
     The material the knife is made of is a 1095 high carbon steel alloy with a black traction coating. The handles are black linen micarta for a strong grip that will not slip even if your hands are bloody. Overall length is 11  inches with a 6  inch blade and 5 7/8 inch cutting edge. The choil in the blade allows the user to choke up on the handle for fine intricate work. The thumb bump on the top is very versatile allowing multiple handholds with a good solid grip. There is an additional lanyard hole in the thumb bump for added security and safety. There is also some added jimping on the handle to give an amazing grip even while wearing heavy gloves.
     I found this knife to like an axe splitting through logs due to the thickness of the blade. Combined with the angles of the grinds it is like a wedge powering through even the hardest of woods. Processing firewood is not a problem for a knife like this.
     The next blade is an awesome chopper in any wilderness setting. It is the Pro Tool Industries Woodman's Pal. This is a piece of American military history. It was designed by Fredrik Ehrsam in 1941 for the department of agriculture to blaze trails and clear thick undergrowth from areas. 
 
  
 
     It was introduced to the military in 1942 as the LC-14-B. It was issued to the signal corps, as part of the survival kit for paratroopers, and many others. It is still issued to our troops to this day. 
     This particular model is the Military Premium. Anyone that has actually used the Woodman's Pal will tell you it's great tool. It is made of a 1075 high carbon steel heat treated to 47 on the Rockwell scale. I have had people tell me that it is too soft for a blade. I find that by using it on desert hardwoods it is a good temper for this type of steel. It has good edge retention and sharpens very easily. This will also hold up well under freezing temperatures. The overall length is 16  inches with a 1/8 inch thick blade and a generous cutting edge.  The stacked leather handle is made of pig hide. It affords a firm grip and with the knuckle guard, you can be assured of a non-slip grip. The blade has a slight downward curve giving maximum chopping power to whatever you are chopping. The design of the blade also allows this chopper to be used as a drawknife. This has proven useful while tillering a bow in the field. The billhook on the top of the blade has a chisel grind that makes cutting saplings, vines, and weeds at ground level a breeze. The woodman's Pal also makes a great self-defense weapon. With the design of the hook no matter where you are grabbing whether it is an arm, leg, or groin you are grabbing an artery.         I find this tool to be very useful in the field. I have built shelters, cut thatching material, and even dug fire pits with the Woodman's Pal. The fact that there is no point on the tool makes it great for such tasks. While digging if you happen to run into roots the billhook provides leverage to cut through them making the task much easier. There are a few sheath options for this tool. They come in a choice of canvas, leather, or cordura. Each blade also comes with a sharpening stone for edge maintenance in the field. With the type of steel and heat treatment, the Woodman's Pal can easily be sharpened on any stone.
     The next knife is another TOPS knife. It is the High Desert Survival Knife. I am very proud of the blade it is one of my first accomplishments. It was featured in the November 2011 issue of Tactical Knives Magazine. They did a great job on the article and devoted six pages to the knife. I now have the article preserved and hung on my office wall.
    This knife has a 1095 high carbon steel alloy blade that is heat treated to 58 rc. It is 11 3/8 inch overall with a 6  blade and 5  inch cutting edge. The knife is -inch thick skeleton handle with G10 scales. This knife is well balanced with a large finger choil to allow the user to choke up on the blade for fine intricate tasks. The blade is slightly offset from the handle making it a great chopper by choking back on the handle. There is a lot grip on this knife with jimping on the front of the thumb ramp and on the handle as well. The edge comes from TOPS razor sharp and is very easy to re-sharpen and maintain the edge. I have sold many of these blades and so far, I am yet to hear any negative feedback on them. The first initial reaction I get is a shock and awe of the weight and balance of the knife. The knife is guaranteed and with TOPS guarantee, I do not think you will ever need the warranty. They are very well built and may just be the last knife you ever buy. All the time I have personally used one it has really preformed well. It graciously took everything I could throw at it.
 
  
 
    The above photo is the High Desert Survival Knife. The hand drill kit was made with the knife. One of the added features of the blade is the slight drop just before the point. This makes this knife a great drill for making fireboards for the bow or hand drill method of primitive fire.
     Before you think I designed the knife, I did not. After testing many knives from many companies and a lot of them from TOPS I absolutely loved the CQT 6.5. This was the birth of the High Desert Survival Knife. I could not accept just any blade to put my name on. I needed one that would hold up to a brutal knife only survival course. I knew I would find that with TOPS knives. When in the field I tested this knife beyond what a normal knife would go through in its lifetime. I split logs that were too big for this knife to split. I chopped through Manzanita cross grain until my arm felt like it would fall off, and then I did it again. I built shelters, bashed rocks with the back of the blade, dug holes, Drove it into tree stumps and stood on it, decimated roots, chopped through tin cans to improvise spear points and make other field tools. One of the biggest tests I preformed was stabbing through the bottom of an old aluminum household pot I then twisted the blade. After all this, I simply ran the blade over a strop to restore the edge. Try that with a lesser knife!  I was so impressed I framed the prototype blade. It is now hanging on my wall.
     These next two blades are a little smaller than those I have designed in the past. I call these the Southwest Hunter and the Southwest Trapper. They are both made of O1 tool steel and heat treated to a 59/60 on the Rockwell scale. The handles are a micarta with loveless style rivets and a very nice brass lined lanyard hole that will double as a bullet puller. Each one is 5/32 inch thick, which I found for a small hunting and trapping blade to be optimal. I went with a saber grind on these two blades mostly because I am very partial to this style of grind. It seems to be a little simpler than a scandi and easier to sharpen than a convex. The weight and feel of these two blades has made them two of my favorite EDC knives. I find I can carry these in most states without any kind of legal ramifications. This is very important to people who are serious about their knives. 
 
  
 
    I found these blades to be great for everything from skinning game to carving trap triggers. Samuel Staniforth aka Scorpion Knives, makes these in Sheffield England. On top, you can see the Southwest Trapper with a 4-inch blade and on bottom is the Southwest Hunter with a 5-inch blade. 
    Another knife I put my name on as well as my personal design is the Saguaro Survival Knife. It is also made by Scorpion Knives in the UK. They have been making blades for over 150 years. 
     The Saguaro Survival Knife is 12  inches overall with a 6 3/8 inch cutting edge and is  inch thick. It has a thumb bump and a finger choil for small tasks and an exposed tang for breaking glass or Plexiglas. The spine of the blade has a false edge to balance out the knife. This knife has also been tested hard. I did the same tests I did with the High Desert Survival Knife and this one stood up as well. 
     The steel is 1075 high carbon steel heat treated to 54-56 RC. There is a choice in blade finishes for this knife. It comes with the two models uncoated and one military black Teflon coated blade. Both with black linen micarta handles. The sheaths are standard webbing for both models. The cost of production for this model is a little high but is well worth the 160-dollar asking price. Most of that translates over to overseas shipping. 
     The edge retention of this knife is very good. I took the blade and did nothing but cutting wood and shaved bark for an entire weekend. After cutting through hardwoods like mesquite then shaving off the bark, the blade still melted through the knots in the wood. Chopping through the mesquite cross grain is not an easy task for any blade. I was very impressed with the results.
     When I design a knife, I go with what I would want in a blade. I cannot go by what everyone else wants, the list would be too big and the knife would not be functional. I can only give my opinion on what I think a knife should be. It is up to everyone else to decide whether they like what the blade has become. This all comes from over 20 years of wilderness experience.   
 
 
  
 
     The photo above is the Saguaro Survival Knife in the arms of a Saguaro cactus. This angle allows you to see the lines in the blade. This is a beautiful and very functional knife.
     I have also been able to design a couple of blades for Pro Tool Industries the makers of the Woodman's Pal mentioned earlier. Once I used the Woodman's Pal, I knew the quality of their line. I set out to design my own line of choppers. What I came up with was a couple of mean beasts for blades. The first one I will go over is called the Apache Bolo. This thing comes in at a whopping 2 pounds. I have to warn you if you do not like heavy blades then you may want to look elsewhere. It is made from 1075 high carbon steel and heat treated to Rockwell 54-56. The grind is a little different and may require some getting used to. On the -inch thick blade, we finished it off with a simple axe grind and G10 handle scales. This hulk of a blade is definitely a workhorse. 
     While testing this blade I noticed that the weight did not interfere with fine carving. In fact, it seemed to give quite a bit more control while the blade is in use. I was able to do a lot of fine work like making traps and a throwing stick. Anyone who has ever carved stuff like this knows it can be intricate. While chopping the piece of hackberry for the throwing stick and batoning through a huge piece of seasoned mesquite I found that the thickness of the blade acted like a wedge.
 
  
 
     Above is a photo of the Apache Bolo with the finished throwing stick I had carved using the knife. For such a heavy blade this is one I would not mind keeping by my side during a survival situation or even a zombie apocalypse. The overall edge retention of the blade is great and I did not have any worries of the edge rolling while it was in use. I am a large person with big hands so the weight of this thing does not bother me at all. I know that it can be an issue for some. That being the case this hulk will give you a work out focusing on those muscles. Use it long enough and the weight will not be an issue for them either.
     The next one I designed is called the SPCSE or Special Purpose Combat Survival and Egress. I named it this because I see this blade being used by everyone from collectors, survivalists, and military. This particular blade is much lighter than the Apache Bolo and comes in at just over 13 inched overall. It has the same grind as the Bolo for easier sharpening and edge care. It also has G10 handles with an exposed tang for breaking glass. Right off the bat I noticed my handle idea had worked. I know that many military and other government workers like the U.S. Forest Service wear gloves. This blade fits and performs flawlessly while wearing gloves. I narrowed out the handle slightly and gave the blade a very generous finger choil specifically for this reason.
 
  
 
 
     Above is the SPCSE. This has quickly become one of my favorite blades to use in the field. The simple grind I am finding to be very effective and easily maintained. It is very comfortable, well balanced, and fits my needs perfectly. From around the house to camp chores this blade has no issues doing what I need it to do. For me personally these blades cover everything I need in a knife, from large choppers to fine carvers. Anything I need to do in the desert or anywhere else is covered with any one of these blades.  
 
 
 










Section 1 Chapter 7
Other Tools
 
 
    You may also choose to carry an entrenching tool or shovel. These too have more than one use in the field. An entrenching tool can be used to clear land of debris, clear bedding areas, safely flip rocks or logs, self-defense, finding water, digging latrines, putting out fires, and even cooking by using as an improvised spatula or a skillet. Because of their weight, you may not choose to carry one on your person. This I can relate to, I prefer to carry e tools in my vehicle. These are very useful and are a real lifesaver to keep on hand.
    Let us start out with the possibility of being stuck in the silt of a dry wash. This accompanied with a high lift jack will go miles to free you. In no way would I ever be caught in the backcountry without one in the vehicle. I cannot tell you how many times I have been out and have seen people stuck in the sand with no means of helping themselves. My way of thinking is if you plan to travel the back roads then go prepared. With all the space in a vehicle, there is no reason to have a few necessary items with you at all times. 
    In this section, I will cover five of my personal entrenching tools or spades. These are not all carried at the same time but I do carry two in my vehicle. The reason is if one breaks, I do not have to worry about making or improvising a new handle. I simply just reach into the back of the truck and grab a new one. This not only saves time but a lot of sweat and unnecessary pain in butt.
 
  
 
     From left to right we have my oldest "trusty" spade. This one has a wooden handle and has been used and abused throughout the years, it is in fact so old I cannot even remember the manufacture. Second, we have the Cold Steel Special Forces shovel. This one in particular is a neat tool in my opinion. Although not as well used as my "trusty" I have used it to clear debris, cut wood for a fire, build shelter, and I have even target practiced with throwing it. The sharpened edges of this tool are handy and with the carbon steel it is made from it sharpens very easily. Another one of my well-used e tools is the old East German folding shovel. This thing is as strong as an ox. The construction is very good and locking system on the hinge has so far been indestructible. I have pried with this tool and used this one as a lever on several occasions. So far it is holding up nicely. Moving on to the U.S. Tri Fold entrenching tool, this one has to be one of my favorite tools out there. It is lightweight and it folds to a very small size. I chose to use the plastic cover for the tool and store it under the driver's side seat in my vehicle.  I have used the U.S. Tri Fold shovel for a variety of things. I have dug fire holes, buried hot rocks in shelters, Put out campfires, and even used it as a skillet. Doing this will damage the heat-treat of the tool but so far I have yet to have any issues with this happening. I do not suggest doing this with a tool with a wooden handle. The heat of the fire will heat the metal and burn the wood. 
     A lot of entrenching tools have moving parts. With this in mind, keep them well oiled and clear of any debris. In the desert, there is a lot of sand and silt and it gets into everything. This stuff is a royal pain to say the very least. After using the tool in these conditions, I will submerge them in water and work the moving parts. This will allow the sand and debris to fall out of the mechanisms. I will then treat them with oil to prevent rusting and to keep the parts in good working order. The wooden handles must also be taken care of. If these get wet, dry them out and treat them with a fat or oil of your choice. My favorite oil to treat the handles with is linseed. This is an old farmer's trick but it works.
 
    
 
     Above are two shovels, One came from the factory with a sharpened edge the other I sharpened myself. This is not a bad idea. I personally like the fact that I can make the tools multipurpose. Having the cutting edge has proven to be a work saver in many ways. For one while digging fire pits and being able to cut roots out of the way with the same tool is awesome. Chopping some firewood with the same tool is also great. On occasion, I have also prepared meat and quartered game with the sharpened edge of the tools.  
Multi Tools
 
  
 
     The photo above is of two multi tools I will carry. The top is the Gerber Diesel; at the bottom is the SOG Power lock. Both are great tools and have served me well over the past few years. I carry them in a double stack magazine pouch that mounts horizontally on my belt. This allows for very quick access to the tool when it is needed. 
     The Gerber Diesel is great for one-handed operation. I used it the most when I suffered an injury to my right index finger. The injury was severe enough it required reconstructive surgery; this is why knife safety is so important. As I was adapting to the injury I had to learn to get tasks done with one hand. The Gerber multi tool was my go to tool during this time. With a simple wrist flick, the pliers will pop right out of the handle and are ready for use. 
     The tools are tough and of good quality when used under normal conditions. This means do not try to cut tin cans with the blade. The steel is soft and the cans will damage the edge. The screwdrivers, scissors, file, and saw blade are great and hold up well. These tools made my one handed experience a little easier to tolerate. 
     The SOG Powerlock is a top of the line multi tool. The knife blade is heat treated, as is the entire tool. This makes it stronger, holding up to a lot more abuse than a lesser priced tool. The pliers are gear assisted making clamping down very easy. It comes with wire crimps and blasting cap crimps that work on some household and automotive electrical terminals. The tools like the screwdrivers, file, "v" cutter, and can opener are made of tuff stainless steel. 
     The only complaint I had with the Power lock is the tool covers will pop off while trying to gain access to the tools. This can be a real pain in a survival situation. I used this multi tool immediately after I sliced my tendon with a Kabar. I used it to cut the tarp lines free from my truck so I could get to the hospital. As I was getting the knife blade out the cover popped off the tool. This happens mainly because I was using the tool one handed at that time. It is not made for this. The locks on both multi tools are good and secure. The Diesel has slide locks that will automatically lock the tool in place. To unlock it simply slide the lock toward the pliers and the tool is easily folded back into the handle. 
     The Power lock has two covers one on each side that house the tools inside the handle. This must be lifted to gain access to any of the tools. The tool selected for use must be fully extended and the others must be all the way seated in the handle in order to get the locks to work. This is actually the same with both tools when you try to pull one tool out two or three others what to come up with it.   
     When it comes to multi tools choose one that you like and fits your personal needs. These are just like the choices on all the other equipment, personal preference. Do not take someone else's word as gold. Listen to their advice and form your own opinion from there. I hear it all the time "why don't you carry this or that" because I already have the tools and equipment that is comfortable for me and that I personally prefer. Do not form an opinion on a piece of equipment that you personally have not even handled. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 1 Chapter 8
Pack Considerations
 
 
     In this section, I will cover a couple of packs I use while practicing survival skills, teaching classes, hiking, or even camping. When choosing the right pack think of things like size, weight, construction, capacity (what are you planning on carrying), budget, and ease of access to equipment. These key points will make the final decision on what pack you decide to purchase.
     Let us look at the size of a pack. The pack needs to be comfortable and offer some support to you the person wearing it. For me personally I do not like a huge pack, I want something I can put a few necessities into and carry with comfort.  On some occasions, I will live out of my pack...that is before I was married. This gives me the opportunity to test my skill set, this is the main reason I go out in the first place. Choosing the right pack for desert travel will move you into the smaller category right off the bat. Keep this in mind the larger the pack the more gear it will carry. The more gear it will carry the heavier it will be. In the heat of the desert you want to remain as light as possible to conserve body fluid. This is something often over looked by many people and usually ends up with at the very least a lot of discomfort. 
     This leads me into the bare necessities of important gear to carry on hand. The survival kit I mentioned previously that I carry in my web gear set up seems like it would be heavy. On the contrary, the water is what makes it heavy. The gear all fits in to the small pouches and the larger butt pack on the pistol belt. This also puts all the weight on my hips making it lighter than most packs. 
     Watch what you put in your pack. Some things really are not that important to have on hand. You have to learn what is actually nice to have and what is truly needed. The load out in my two packs is simple and pretty much bare bones. The Maxpedition Condor II is a top of the line backpack that I found to be a huge asset to my lead-out. It will hold my shelter system, a couple of extra M65 field jacket liners, assorted plastic bags and sheeting, a Camelback hydration bladder, a stainless steel water bottle, spare socks, foot powder, water disinfecting tablets, a small mess kit, First aid kit, and a meal. A few other items go in the pack; however, the basics mentioned are the most important carry items to have on hand. 
     I will also change up my load out depending on the season. Spring and summer will be lighter than my fall and winter carry. The reason is the temperature. Spring and summer is predictable as far as nighttime temperatures. Spring I may still carry a field jacket liner for some extra warmth at night. In the summer time, it is gone I will not carry it, instead I will utilize some of the plastic trash bags I have on hand to work as a rain poncho during the summer monsoon rainstorms. In many instances, I will carry only a knife. This is usually done to sharpen my primitive and knife only skills while in the field. I also always have a backup plan to fall back on. 
    I will be the first to admit I hate the cold maybe that is an understatement I loathe the cold. I will in winter strap on my extreme cold weather sleeping bag and thermarest mattress. Inside the bag I will add my Gor-Tex bivy bag cover as well as a wool blanket poncho I made and the two M65 field jacket liners. These can be compressed down to take up very little space in the bag but it does increase weight. Being able to stay warm and have a comfortable nights rest is important while in the field. Having good rest will ensure good decision-making and keep your morale up.  
 
  
 
     This is my Maxpedition Condor II. I use this as my spring and summer bag of choice. Many times, it is stowed in my vehicle as a backup kit should my vehicle break down or some other issue arises. It is made of a 1000 denier ballistic nylon material that is extremely tough. I have taken this bag through catclaws (wait-a-minute bushes) with no issues. It has a lot of generous storage and many attachment points for other gear. The bag can also be cinched down with adjustment straps to shrink it down for smaller loads. The two outer pockets are large enough to carry essential items like water purification and first aid. Having these in the outside pouches make it twice as fast to get to when they are needed.
     The shoulder straps are very comfortable and can be adjusted for a great fit. The sternum strap holds the shoulder straps in place making them more comfortable. There are attachment points on the straps to secure compasses or other equipment. With the ability to carry a water bladder in the rear of the pack, the drinking tube can be held in place making it very easy to reach when needed. 
 
  
 
    The next pack I use is essentially my fall and winter pack. It is larger with more pouches that are external and an external aluminum frame. I use this set up because it better supports the use of my large GI sleeping bag. The rigid frame on the medium ALICE pack is made to accept military spaghetti straps specifically made for carrying the military sleeping bags. Keep in mind this equipment is heavy, very heavy. The pack alone weighs around 5 lbs and the sleeping bag weighs just over 9 lbs. That is starting out with a 14 lb set up and it quickly goes up from there. 
     There are attachment points on the ALICE pack for extra gear. I mostly add an additional cutting tool to the outside. The three outer pouches can be water proofed very easily by lining them with large heavy-duty zip lock bags. In these pouches are where the important equipment like water purification, first aid, foot powder, and spare wool socks.
     The US ALICE pack is very durable. They are inexpensive for what you are getting in terms of quality and will most likely last a lifetime. The overall construction is extremely beefy. The snaps, webbing, and all adjustments are made of very high quality material. This is the main reason I picked this pack for my winter load out. 
 
Maxpedition Jumbo Versipack 
 
  
 
     I consider this my lightweight go to bag. This bag allows me to carry my stainless steel water bottle, a small stove, a first aid kit, fire kit, shelter material, extra cordage, food, and water procurement equipment. I have found this bag to practically bomb proof and will hold up well against the wait a minute bushes that like to tear and claw at your gear.  The large carry strap is comfortable and can be adjusted to just about any size. Outside PALS or MOLLIE webbing, make adding additional pouches quick and easy.
     Many of the hikes I have gone on I have used this bag. One of the main reasons I prefer this as my lightweight bag is because of how simple it is to take off. I can slip off the strap, undo one clip from the waist belt, and just drop it. While studying plants in my area I have found this bag to be perfect for carrying field guides and note taking supplies. On occasion, I will also use this bag for my camera equipment while in the field. 
     Whatever bag you prefer to carry the choice is yours. So far, I have given simple ideas of gear and equipment to carry with you as well as in your vehicle. Staying safe and being well prepared for any kind of backcountry emergency is crucial to making a desert trip enjoyable. Keep in mind items that you like to use and carry. I am not trying to sway you in any direction. My goal is to give you choices and ideas as to the kind of gear that is important to have on hand. This all comes from my personal experiences while traveling the back roads of the desert southwest.    
     Most of the time; I prefer to be able to grab my pack and toss it into the back of my truck and head off. I find that with very large packs it makes this very difficult to do. Not only are heavier packs cumbersome but they will also dehydrate you that much faster. A 75 lb load may seem normal to some people, but the fact of the matter is they are usually in the military or they are former military. When the road march was done, they had full access to water and in some cases, they were able to refill from the water truck while on the move. While planning a desert survival kit, understand that this is not the case. Most of your weight should be water and there may not be any refills should something happen. Keep it lightweight!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 1 Chapter 9
Basic Vehicle Survival
 
 
     This is a very important subject in a survival situation. This is one of the most common problems to arise as people take to the desert. Off road, travel is increasingly popular and certain considerations must be made to ensure safety. I will cover what to do when there is a problem, Shelter considerations, kits for vehicles. There will also be a lot of information in between these subjects. 
     I travel the desert quite often. I also run across stranded motorists while traveling back roads. The problems I tend to see most of the time is common. These are a blown tire, overheating (in one of several ways), no fuel, and in some cases a busted oil pan from using the wrong vehicle on a bad road. Being prepared for these issues is imperative to being self sufficient while traveling the back desert roads of the southwest. These types of breakdowns do not just happen on the back roads. With hundreds of miles of highway and much of those are very remote problems can and will occur. 
     The most important thing is to be prepared for situations that can occur on the road. I follow a checklist when it comes to backcountry trip or long road trips. I will cover more vehicle survival tips throughout this series.
 
1. Check the tires. Make sure they have the proper air pressure. Look for cracks and wear. This can cause a blow out while on the road. Check the spare, what condition is it in, do you even have one. Look for the jack and lug wrench. Make sure you have a way to plug the tire if needed. Carry a can of Fix-A-Flat this will get you to a service center in some cases.
 
2. Check all fluids and carry extra. Neglecting the vehicle fluids can also cause devastating breakdowns or in some cases accidents. Check that the brake fluid is filled to the proper level, check the engine oil, engine coolant, transmission fluid, even windshield washing fluid. You should also carry extra fluids for all including fuel.
 
3. Check belts and hoses for cracks and wear. Replace if needed and carry extra.
 
4. Make sure you have kept up on the needed maintenance on your vehicle. This can be one of the leading causes of breakdowns.
 
     Cell phones are good to have on hand and can get you out of a jam if you have service. There are long stretches of highway that do not have cell phone service. Up in Northern Arizona for example in the Navajo reservation there are huge dead zones. In short, if you cannot get service on your cell phone do not panic. 
  In the sections before I talked about survival kits and equipment. These items should be carried in your vehicle as well. Your survival kit will have food, water, extra warmth if needed, shade, fire starters, and some comfort items. In addition to these, you should have some tools to aid in repairs, channel locks, vice grip pliers, wire cutters, needle nose, assorted screwdrivers, wrenches, sockets and ratchets. When all else fails have a hammer handy!
     In the event you do break down open the doors, hood, and deck lid. This will signal trouble to other motorists and airplanes flying over. Some roads are not widely traveled but help will come. In some cases, you need to get their attention. I will cover this in the signaling section of this book. 
     Whatever you do if you are broken down stay with the vehicle, it is much easier for airplanes and other motorists to see the vehicle than it is to see you walking. For shelter I suggest staying out of the car, temperatures inside can soar to over 140 degrees. In winter, you may be tempted to stay in the car with the heater running. If the car will run, the heater will work. The problem being that if the vehicle is covered with snow or the doors and windows are covered with ice there can be a buildup of carbon monoxide. This odorless colorless gas will kill. When the heater quits, and it will, you should have a shelter built away from the vehicle. Staying inside the vehicle in extreme conditions will kill you. You are more likely to freeze to death inside your vehicle than outside in a shelter.  There are ways of being able to stay inside your vehicle during cold weather although I do not recommend it. I will cover this in the shelter section of this series. 
Conclusion for Chapter 1
 
     In conclusion of this first section of Survival in the Southwest read it carefully. Take the information and use it, find out what will work for you. Some of the information I have given may not work for everyone. These are tidbits of information that I use on a regular basis. The only way to find out what will work for you is to get out and do the dirt time. By using the equipment and studying beforehand you can tailor make your kit to suit you and be ready for any possibility you may encounter.
    The bottom line is if you find yourself in a survival situation the best line of defense is knowledge and skill. These can only come from doing. All I can do is give you the proper tools to begin your wilderness education. You cannot gain all your knowledge from reading or watching videos alone. Look at your skills as a table. A table has four legs, this means they must be even. First, you have studying which must be done to gain a clear understanding of what you are learning. The next is dirt time, you must get out and physically do the skills in order to master them and become confident that you can in fact be self-reliant in the wilderness. The next is knowledge this is gained by the total understanding of how to accomplish these skills. Finally, we have skill; this is gained by the doing of the skills and knowing when and how to use them.
     If any of these are not equal, the table will not sit right. You have to be proficient at all four in order to have a solid table that will hold you up. These skill sets and others you will read about in following sections will take you further into the world of self-sufficiency in the wilderness. Some of the skills are done using only a knife and some without a knife. These are difficult and are very challenging. No matter how the skill in this book is portrayed, you cannot effectively use them if you do not do them. 
     In the beginning sections of this book, I went over coping in a wilderness situation, common physiological hardships one would be faced with, managing calories and fluids, and kit construction. These are very basic building blocks of building knowledge and skill. Take this information into the field with you and decide for yourself what you like and do not like, find out what works for you and what does not. Most of all.....Learn! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2 Chapter 1
Shelter
 
      Shelter is the first important obstacle to overcome in a survival situation. Your first line of shelter is the clothes you are wearing. Dressing properly will help your body regulate your core temperature. No matter what time of year or climate you are in loose fitting clothing is best. In warmer climates, loose clothing allows air to circulate and cool the body. In dry hot climates, sweaty clothing will act as a natural evaporative cooler. Remember no matter where you are keeping your skin and head covered. It may seem redundant to wear long sleeves in the heat but it will protect you from the sun, wind, keep you from becoming cut or scratched by vegetation and other things, this will also keep you cooler. Your head should be covered with a wide brimmed hat to protect your face, neck, and head from the sun's harmful rays.
      In cold climates, loose fitting layers are also important. The dead air spaces between the layers provide insulation by trapping body heat. A good insulated hat will keep your head warm. Most of your body's heat is lost through the head, so keep it covered. In cold weather, it is also important to know what kind of fabric to wear. I use the saying "cotton kills" and for good reason, if you become immersed in water or become wet cotton will not insulate. It will in fact speed the onset of hypothermia. The best material hands down, for excellent cold wet protection is wool. Wool will insulate well even when wet. 
 
  
 
     In the above photo, I am demonstrating the proper dress for the heat of the desert. It may seem that I would be very hot and possibly raise my core temperature, I have found by keeping myself covered it traps the sweat turning my clothing into an evaporative cooler. Keep in mind that when the humidity goes up during the monsoon season I will remove some of this. During the monsoons, the humidity will rise making the evaporative cooler effect useless. In high humidity the moisture cannot evaporate, as well making you heat up.
     As we go down the list of the clothing, I am wearing keep in mind they are loose fitting to allow air to circulate freely thus further aiding in the evaporative cooling effect. 
 
1. Boonie Hat- This is to keep the sun off my head and allow the sweat to evaporate cooling me faster. The head is the most important to keep covered. The sun can very quickly heat up an exposed head and raise your core body temperature. This is the opposite for cold weather when heat can rapidly escape. The boonie hat will offer protection for my neck, ears, and eyes from the sun's rays. This will also reduce the likelihood of sunburns.
 
2. Sun Glasses- This is important! These will protect my eyes from the sun's rays as well as act as safety glasses keeping dust and cactus thorns out of my eyes. There is little worse than getting a cactus glochid in your eye. Also, make sure they are properly UVA and UVB treated. I find myself going for more expensive eyewear than that of off the shelf glasses like those found at convenience stores. I look at it as an insurance policy for my eyes. 
 
3. Large Bandanna, Neckerchief, or shemagh - This will aid the evaporative cooling to my face, neck and throat. This also aids protection from dust, debris, and the sun's rays.
 
4. A long sleeved shirt- This traps sweat keeping my core cooler as well as blocking the sun's rays. This keeps my body and arms from being sunburned and gives minor protection from thorns.
 
5. Desert Camo BDUs- These are heavy duty and protect my lower body from the sun as well as debris and thorns. The material will also aid in the cooling of the body. They are also strong and will hold up to years of abuse. Snags and grabs from the desert scrub brush will not hurt these pants.
 
6. Rolled Cuffs- I added this separately because this is a big deal. By having the cuffs of my pants rolled, I am able to maximize airflow to my legs and groin area. This is not only comfortable but is very cooling to the body. As I move, it forces air to circulate.
 
7. Leather military boots- I am a big ALTAMA fan. I have been using their boots for as long as I can remember. These are lightweight and breathable. As my feet sweat, the boots are able to allow my feet to breath. These will also protect my feet from the over 150-degree ground and the major thorns and sharp rocks. I will also wear wool socks all year round. Wool socks will wick the sweat away from your feet keeping the growth of bacteria at bay. With cotton socks your feet will begin to get slimily, this is the bacteria starting to grow. 
 
    Yes I hear you, what about my gloves? I keep them in my cargo pocket so they are easy to get to should I need them. These are important to protect your hands from not only hot rocks but also stickers, your blade, scorpions and spiders, the list can go on and on. Always keep your hands sheltered from harm.
The Five Heat Loss and Heat Gain Mechanisms
 
    Your body looses heat in five ways. These same ways can also contribute to heat gain. It is important to know these five mechanisms in order to protect yourself from cold or heat. This is why shelter is so direly important in a survival situation. 
 
1. Conduction- this is heat or cold transfer from one body to the next. For example sitting on the hot ground will make you hotter the same as sitting on the cold ground will cause you to be colder. The heat or cold will transfer from the ground to your butt.
 
2. Convection- Convection is wind. Cold or hot wind can affect your core body temperature. In cold climates, the wind can literally blow the warmth away from you. In hotter climates, the wind can blow the heat to you. 
3. Radiation- This is where your body heat is lost to open air. In the cold, your body heat will rise into the air were it just disappears. In hotter areas the surrounding rocks, sand, or even dirt radiate their heat on to you causing you to heat up. 
 
4. Respiration- Just the simple act of breathing can have an effect on your core temperature. Breathing in cold air will cause your, mouth, nose, and lungs to cool. Hot air will warm your body in the same way.
 
5. Perspiration- Perspiration means two things, sweating or being immersed in water. In cold climates, this is the most dangerous of situations. You can lose body heat up to five times faster if immersed in cold water. Same as sweating, working yourself to a sweat can mean extreme danger in cold weather. In hotter climates, this works a little different. The amount you sweat is what causes the danger, not only from dehydration but also from heat stroke. The danger lies were the body could no longer cool itself through perspiration. The body comes to a point where sweating; the body's natural cooling system; shuts down all together, the skin becomes hot and dry, pulse and breathing speed up, and the bodies core temperature can quickly reach 105 degrees or higher. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 2 Chapter 2
Shelter Construction and Location
 
      Shelter can be made up of just about anything ranging from snow, branches, dirt, mud, sod, stone, or even manmade material like plastic, nylon, or canvas. You can improve on your shelter by mixing all of these materials together for added insulation or to divert water if needed. If you choose to carry a tent, make sure it is rated for four seasons. Three season tents, although better than nothing, provide little protection from the cold and will not insulate. It is best to make a natural shelter and cover it with the tent and forest debris to add insulation and waterproofing. 
      When choosing a shelter location there is several things to keep in mind. Choose a location that will protect you from weather. Most storms on the North American continent move from west to east.  In Arizona, there is a monsoon season when the wind will shift directions. Monsoon storms can in fact move in from any direction.  At higher altitudes, the mountains can even create their own microclimates, which can differ greatly from area to area. 
      Be sure your shelter is protected from hazards. Look for dead tree limbs or "widow makers" that may fall due to wind or rain. Watch for areas that may be prone to falling rocks. Both of these can cause serious injury or death.
     Make sure your area is dry and is well drained. Do not build a shelter in a dip, trough, or a wash. Being close to water is a plus but be sure you are not too close. In Arizona flash floods are huge problems, injuring, stranding, or even killing. Flash floods are brought on by heavy rain and can be caused even if it is not raining were you are. If you are caught in one you will die. Keep in mind how high the water can get. Do this by looking at the trees for debris that is tangled in their branches or around the base.                                                                                                                           
    Do not build your shelter in heavily wooded areas in fall or winter months. The tall trees and branches will block the heat of the sun taking longer to dry out and warm up after a rain or snow. Build on the edge of a clearing where the south edge is exposed to the sun for longer lasting warmth and light.  
    When constructing your shelter take into consideration that the southwest differs greatly from all other regions. I have found that in the summer it is best to face your shelter north. This protects you all day by keeping the sun to the back of your shelter. In warmer months, the sun is your enemy. In colder months, face the entrance of your shelter to the south. This will allow the warming rays of the sun to warm you and the shelter all day.
     Watch for fire hazards such as dry grass, dead trees or shrubs, and dry leaf litter on the ground. You should have a small fire near the entrance for cooking and warmth, but don't allow it to get too big. Shelters are very flammable it only takes a spark to set it off. Locate your shelter in an area with little fire hazard or clear the area before building a fire. 
     Keep an open eye for dangerous plants. Poison ivy and poison oak can make a survival situation even more uncomfortable. Watch for dangerous animals such as javalina, rattlesnakes, mountain lions, bobcats, and bears. These animals can be deadly especially if intruded upon while looking for a natural shelter in a cave or rock out cropping. Always check natural shelters for existing occupants before entering. Watch for ants, bees, wasps, scorpions, and centipedes. You would not want to build you shelter around their nests.  Always check bedding before crawling in and shake out your boots in the morning, you may get an unwanted and painful surprise. These insects and arachnids are attracted to cozy warm bodies.
     Make sure your location has plenty of materials to build a shelter. You do not want to scout for miles to find necessary materials to build; this would be a terrible waste of energy. Make sure there is a good supply of firewood. Try to gather enough to keep from having to look around for it at night. Stumbling around in the dark can be dangerous and even deadly. A great rule to follow when gathering firewood is as soon as you think you have enough get more.
    Note worthy exceptions to the rules: In extreme hot desert conditions, it is important to build lower than you would in, as I refer to it a winter or cold situation. In the cold times of the year build on higher ground to allow the sun to warm your shelter and have longer lasting sun all day. This takes advantage of the vital warmth the sun provides. In hotter times of the year allow your shelter to be shaded in a lower area like between mountains or hills. I say this from experience, allowing your shelter to be heated in the morning and all day will cause not only severe discomfort, but the heat can be dangerous even if you are shaded. Building in a lower protected area will provide protection from the sun. In the mornings, it will take longer for the sun's rays to begin warming the shelter. In the evening, the sun will in fact "set" sooner by dropping behind the hill or mountain giving needed relief from the long hot day.   
    If there is water, keep well away due to bugs and flash floods. Make sure the area is well drained in case of rain or monsoon storms that can drop a lot of rain in a hurry. I have seen in many cases that the rain will in fact come down in any direction, North, South, East, West, and anywhere in between.
     The Bushman's little secret to building a shelter during the monsoons: Take advantage of overhead covering, like under a tree with bushy branches and construct your shelter there. This will help to shed rain that will come in from any direction. I know this sounds WRONG or STUPID to build in these areas especially during the possibility of lightning. Lightning has a tendency to hit the highest or tallest point in the area. I have found areas with some tall trees in riparian zones along with shorter bushy trees. I have also built my shelters under these trees during monsoon rains. The chances of lightning hitting the short tree you built under are slim. It is even a slimmer chance of it hitting when there are higher hills and trees in your area. Be warned, this is still dangerous. Keep in mind, if lightning is going to hit it will hit! Never build under a tree in an open area or under a lone tree in a clearing. The goal is to give several targets for the lightning to hit instead of just you. Now notice I said I built in a riparian zone. Always check to see how high the water can get and stay well above that line.
     General rule about wildlife: I have never had a problem with any kind of animal in the wilderness. I have seen mountain lions peering at me over the sides of ravines while filling my canteens. I have even walked right by rattlesnakes. Notice I said by not on! I have even shared a stream at night with a thirsty bobcat. In these experiences not once did the animal just attack me. Yes, these animals are very dangerous and I do not suggest dropping your guard by any means. All I am saying watch out for media hype on these innocent creatures. Learn about their behaviors before venturing into their territory. Most attacks are provoked whether the victim knows it or not. Key point being; do not act like pray and do not try to approach a wild animal.  
     Other considerations for shelter are insects and arachnids. I have had scorpions crawl into my shelter at night. It has even happened when the temperature is 0 degrees. They do this because we are warm and they are naturally attracted to warm places, especially those places that will provide shelter for them. This is an unavoidable issue while sleeping in the desert. One of the ways I have tried to combat this issue is to smoke out my shelter before I crawl in. This will evacuate small insects as well as some of the spiders and other crawlies. Keep in mind they will come back unless you keep your fire going all night and allow the smoke to waft into the shelter. This will not work however with scorpions. 
     The sting of a scorpion is very painful and can bring on anaphylaxis. Their venom is located at the end of the tail. This is called the telson. This will have the venom gland and the stinger attached to it.  The venom is made up of a mixture of neurotoxins that is used primarily for prey capture. The scorpion can also control the amount of venom administered during the sting. In most cases, the scorpion will try to evade unless it is messed with in some way. Then it has no choice but to defend itself. 
     The Bark Scorpion is the most dangerous with the reputation of having the most hospitalizations on record. These are easy to identify by the tail. The tail of the bark scorpion is much longer than its body. The tail is also very skinny. Do not let this fool you they are dangerous. I will go over how to deal with a scorpion sting later in a following book. There is however a way to combat them. I will on occasion carry a black light with me. This will make the scorpion glow showing you right where they are. Normally I do not suggest out right hunting the scorpions in case of an envenomation but they can be safely pinned with a large stick and the telson removed. In classes, I will demonstrate this as a method of procuring food. I suggest carrying permetherin in your survival kit. This arthropod repellant is very effective. This can be sprayed on your clothing or sleeping bags to aid in keeping them away. 
     Another big issue with sleeping is the Black Widow and the Arizona Brown. These two spiders are bad news. The Black Widow has hospitalized more people than rattlesnakes alone. The bite can be extremely painful followed by the onset of convulsions. These convulsions are usually most predominant in the abdomen. The bite has been known to cause death in the young and infirm. 
     I was bitten by a black widow once, not while in the field but while moving boxes in a shed at home. I was bitten on the left index finger by only one fang. This resulted in a minor envenomation. I knew I had been bitten and felt it crawling on my hand before the actual bite. I had started to pull my hand away when it happened. In my case, there was only a little numbness and tingling at the bite site. Later I started getting a little dizzy and nausea had set in. A couple of hours later I had gone into the hospital with severe vomiting and minor tremors. They monitored me and gave me some medicine for the nausea and for the pain. I did not get the antivenin that can only be given once in your life. I was lucky; I had a mild reaction that resulted in some medication and being monitored. There have been so many that have not been so lucky.
     The Arizona Brown is another spider that will put the hurt on you. I have heard cases of a reaction from the bite itself causing anaphylaxis. In most cases, the bite will cause necrotic lesions where the bite will essentially dissolve the flesh. This usually results in serious medical intervention followed by skin grafts to close the gaping hole. The good thing about these three is that they are reclusive. Meaning they will hide in dark places. Knowing this we can be cautious about where we put our appendages and what it is we are picking up. Look carefully at everything you pick up including the material you are using to building your shelter.   
     I have been asked several times about how to keep snakes out of the shelters. So far, this has not been a huge issue. I have only had one snake in my shelter anytime I have slept in one. I woke up with a western diamondback on the foot of my sleeping bag. I just nudged him off and he went on his way. I had heard that juniper boughs would keep them out because they will not crawl over them. I am here to tell you, this is not true. The material they crawl over is lot pricklier than any juniper bough. Many old "wives" tales out there come from sheer lack of knowledge and understanding. I know of stories where people have opened up their sleeping bags only to find a rattler coiled up waiting to greet them. I have no reason to doubt this but from my personal experiences it has never happened to me. It is a scary thought to be awakened by something like that. The best course of action is to be vigilant, we are in their homes and frankly, they were there first. Get a large heave stick and be ready to use it.
 
  
 
     The photo above shows a perfect example of a natural shelter. The way the rock has fallen it will block wind and rain. In colder weather, it could be made quite comfortable by burying hot rocks and a layer of heavy grass or boughs. In addition to this, a fire reflector will bounce heat into the shelter. Use extreme caution when having a fire close to the entrance of rock or cave shelters. Too hot, of a fire can thermo crack stone and cost you your life. 
    When scouting for a location look for trees with branches that can be used as the basic framework for your shelter. The photo below shows just that. It would be simple to add some boughs and debris to make a habitable shelter. Add larger branches to make an a-frame type or a lean to shelter. Take advantage of what nature has provided. 
 
  
 
   Take a closer look at the above photo. What is wrong with it?  In my experience, I have found that sand makes a terrible insulating material. It also gets into EVERYTHING and is a royal pain in the ass. It is also too close to a riverbank. This is a huge no no, and can cost you your life. You can see it is a great frame and a great start to a shelter but pass this one up. One rainstorm even 20 miles away can be a life altering experience.    
     In many cases you have to deal with what you have been handed. There are not always the perfect shelter locations. In a survival situation, you are the one that has to make it work. Do not expect it all to go by the book. Developing the mindset that a survival situation is ready made and all laid out for us in some book or video is asking for trouble. Remember a man named Murphy he could bring the reaper.
     In cold weather, you could bury hot rocks heated by the campfire for added warmth. Allow a few hours to "cook" the moisture out of the ground. Use boughs or even a debris mat to keep yourself off the ground to protect you from any moisture on the ground. If there is snow, pack it on to the shelter for better insulation. Use more boughs from nearby trees to make an entrance that can be closed to block snow, rain, or wind.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 2 chapter 3
Man Made Materials and Shelters
 
     In this chapter, I will go over some manmade shelters as well as manmade materials for shelter construction. A lot of these are carried with you in your pack or vehicle. Some can be found in the field or made from recycled materials from tents or hammocks. This material is wind and waterproof, making this type of material sufficient for shelter construction. The goal of having this type and material with you is to make building a shelter quick and easy. 
     In my experience, I have built several different types of shelters out of many different kinds of materials. Some of the shelters I will be covering are basic. This will give you an idea of the types of shelters for the desert. Also, take into consideration that there are many different types of terrain and elevations in the desert. You will see in some of the photographs that there in fact large pine trees. These were taken in the high desert of Arizona. Even though these areas are known to get a little more rainfall, they are still considered desert. Weather it is ponderosa forests or lower Sonoran desert the basic principal is still the same. Also, keep in mind that the winters are much colder in the ponderosa forests than in the lower elevations. This will have an effect on the amount of insulation that will be needed in the construction of your shelter. 
     In later books on this subject, I will show more shelter designs and go further into the construction of these shelters. Over the course of writing this book, I have learned to love a variety of different shelters. I have even devised my own theories as to the areas and types of shelters that are best suited for the environment. Survival is an ever-changing craft and new ideas are constantly adopted. I prefer to call this survival evolution.  
Tent Fly Shelter
 
  
 
     A close friend of mine built this shelter during a camping trip. He simply used a rain fly from an old tent, supported it with cordage from the center and on the left side to a branch, and used a support pole on the right. He anchored the backside with rocks and debris. The sides can be dropped down for added protection from wind and rain. This is a great example of what can be built for spring or summer with whatever can fit in your backpack. Using old scrap material can aid in the building of a good survival kit with little cost. Keep things like this in mind while thinking of shelter material and contents for shelter kits. 
     With a walking stick in place, this will aid in holding up the front of the tent fly allowing this to be used as a shade shelter. In winter, it is best used with a fire reflector to reflect heat back at the entrance. The lines have small hooks on the end making it easy to disconnect and lower one or both sides to give added protection from the wind and or rain and snow. Nylon I have found is not a good insulator itself. However, it will block the chill from the elements. You can also wrap up in his material inside a shelter and it will aid in retaining body heat. 
     If you happen to have an old tent do not just throw it away. The parts can be used for other projects. The bottom can be used as a tarp for shelters and canopies. The nylon can be used as a sleeping bag liner or cover. The screens can be cut into patterns and sewn together to make insect barriers. The poles can be used for improvised traps, arrows, and even bows.
Hammocks as Shelters
 
      I am a firm believer of hammocks as shelters. They do have their advantages and disadvantages. The advantages are that they can be set up in areas where building natural shelter or setting up a tent cannot be done. They set up easily over uneven terrain, meaning they can also be set up and made level on slopes or hillsides. This is a plus when it comes to incoming storms or a setting sun. These can be a real lifesaver when minutes count.                                      
     The drawbacks to hammocks is that you must have two trees close enough together to be able to effectively and safely set them up. There are many places in the Southwest that the vegetation is either too small, too spread out, or both. This makes setting up a hammock safely almost impossible. There are ways of using logs that are propped up with a rope staked to the ground. This is not all bad but can be extremely dangerous when set up with haste. In addition, this is extremely difficult to accomplish in areas where material is scarce. The good point to this is the hammock can be used in more than one way. The material is nylon; this is a very versatile material. By removing the lines from a double hammock, you can easily turn them into a tarp. By doing this you have a wider range of possibilities while carrying a hammock. 
     Another downside to any of these shelters is they must be packed in with you. This can make your survival kit heavy and bulky, especially when combined with sleep gear. This really is not an issue with the lost backpacker, but when thinking of adding to your survival kit, be sure to weigh your options to make the best choice for you, the individual. I prefer to keep kits light and to the point, especially in the hot American deserts. 
     Ultimately, the choice is up to you as to what you want your shelter to be. I have had students get worried that they will not have the right shelter material for a given location. To ease a little fear I would show them different ways to utilize their shelter material. I have had people amazed with the fact that they slept under a tarp that was once a hammock. 
  When carrying hammocks keep in mind, you are carrying a nylon bed and a nylon roof. There is nothing that says you have to set up a hammock in the conventional sense. The fly can be set up as an A-frame or used to cover a natural shelter. The hammock can be used to wrap up with inside the shelter for added warmth. Just because you choose to carry a hammock does not mean you are limited. This nylon material is versatile, dry, and will aid in keeping you warm. I have on several occasions wrapped up in a hammock to block the cold wind and rain. I have also used them to wrap up inside of a shelter for added warmth. Be warned; do not cover your face with the nylon material. There is a danger of condensation build up on the inside of the material or worse, asphyxiation. Personally, I have spent nights out testing how this can work. I have found that in the very cold if used properly and carefully this nylon material will save your butt.
     Learn to use your shelters in different ways. No matter what type of material you choose to carry make sure you can optimize its use should you be in a situation that prevents setting it up the way it is intended. This is where I get to throw in my favorite saying, "There is more than one way to skin a feline"! The ways I mentioned above are only a few ways to optimize what you are carrying. No matter where you decide to carry your material or what material you decide to carry, Keep it simple and keep it light. God gave all of us a brain, get out there and test out the limits of your imagination.  
 
  
 
    This is one favorite Shelter to use while camping. It is the military jungle hammock based on an old WWII design. It is lightweight and rolls up small enough to be added to any survival kit. It has mosquito netting, a waterproof nylon top, and a durable cotton canvas bottom. It can be set up quickly and easily just about anywhere and can hold up to 400 pounds. The only drawback is you have to supply the guy lines and make sure you add spreader bars to spread the hammock out. This can easily be done with branches cut to size. In heavy rain, the top can be lowered by adjusting the guy lines for added protection.
     Another advantage to this hammock is that it can be set up as a tent if there are no trees large enough or close enough to set it up. This is done by laying the hammock out on the ground. By using the loops on each corner, you can easily stake down the bottom of the hammock. The top can be erected by using sticks as poles then staked down with guy lines. A good time saver is to use some of the larger scrub brush to tie the top up with some paracord. 
     Another hammock I use is the Eagles Nest Outfitters Double Nest Shelter System. This hammock is very easy to set up and is constructed of heavy rip stop nylon. The complete shelter system even comes with a bug net that completely seals of the sleeping area. During the summer while camping in riparian areas the mosquitoes, get bad. Having a bug net is a great luxury item to have on hand. Having this protection on hand will also aid in protecting you against West Nile Virus. This virus is carried by mosquitoes and transmitted through their bite. It is found in Arizona so take precautions!  
 
  
 
     I have used this system for about a year in all types of weather. In extremely cold winter months, I place a Thermarest mat in the bottom to insulate me from wind that blows under the hammock. With this and my extreme cold weather sleeping bag, I am able to sleep soundly and comfortably all night.
      The fly that came with this hammock system is silicone impregnated for maximum weatherproofing. When set up properly this will keep you dry in the heaviest monsoon storms. The tabs that extend on the sides of the Dry Fly divert water to the tips were it will run off and can be collected for fresh drinking water. 
     One thing I have noticed however is the fly is a little short to block all the rain. I have remedied this by simply lowering the fly closer to the hammock. This makes the gaps smaller and keeps you much drier. I have also set the fly up at an angle kind of like a lean too with the hammock lower to the ground. This made a huge difference. I will also at times use the Grand Trunk AT shelter system as a fly over the top of this hammock.
 
  
 
     This is how the Eagles Nest Outfitters, Double Nest is packed. It is lightweight and compact. The entire shelter system sells for around 200.00 dollars and is well worth it for what you are getting.
     The next shelter system is from Grand Trunk, the makers of the travel hammock. This too is a great system. These are made of the same heavy rip stop nylon with a silicon impregnated rain fly. Again, the same is true with this shelter system. Learn alternate ways of using your equipment. The fly (you will see a photo of it on the next page) is called the A.T. Shelter System or All Terrain Shelter System. This allows the fly to be set up in five different ways. It can be set up as a rain fly over the top of your existing hammock, a foot print or ground cloth, an lean too, an A-frame, or as a hammock using the supplied hardware. This is durable, lightweight, and can fit into any pack.
     The photo below shows the shelter set up. Under the rain fly is the Nano-7 hammock. This is an extremely lightweight hammock weighing only 7 oz. This can be stuffed quickly into the attached pouch and shoved into any pocket.
 
  
 
     Now before running off and getting a hammock system to throw into your go bag or survival kit understand one major thing. These can be very dangerous in cold weather. Between you and the outside, air there is only a thin layer of nylon. This will not protect you against hypothermia. What I do in the colder months is carry a little extra. Think about lightweight items that will insulate you from the air and the ground. There are several ways to do this. One of my favorite ways is with a mat. With several kinds on the market do your research to find the one you like. Take the information I am giving you and check it out for yourself. 
     I pack and use a thermarest while out in the fall and winter; this is lightweight and protects me from the cold ground. When using this in a hammock simply lay it in where you will be sleeping and put your bag on top of that. The thermarest creates dead air spaces to trap warm air between it and your bag.  This will also form an insulating barrier between the cold outside air and you keeping you much warmer. I have used the thermarest with a hammock and a U.S. GI extreme cold sleeping bag in 0 degrees and slept like a baby. Once I woke up the next morning, the inside of the rain fly was encrusted with solid ice. I was safe inside my bag.
     When considering a hammock as part of your survival kit be warned, not all hammocks are designed to be used on the ground. Most will in fact absorb moisture. It is very important to guard against this especially if you intend to wrap up in one. Make sure you are fully insulated with debris or layers of boughs to keep yourself off the ground. My suggestion is to purchase a hammock that the material is rated for ground use like that of the AT shelter system.










Section 2 chapter 4
The Casualty Blanket
 
     One shelter design that is simple, lightweight, and can set up in minutes is the lean-to. Me personally I am not a fan of the lean to itself in winter or fall due to the three open sides. In the hot summer in the southwest, it works well. The open design can be disastrous if a storm wanders into your path. On the positive side, this shelter when used in fair to good weather is a decent design. 
     This particular shelter was set up in ten minutes and was so easy we did not even break a sweat. This is another bonus considering it was cold when we did build it. Some modifications can be made to this shelter to make it more comfortable. This I will explain later in this section.
     We used a twelve-foot ridgepole and lashed it to the pine trees on both sides. We then tied the eyelets of the emergency blanket to the ridgepole. The back of the shelter was anchored with cord to stones and the back buried with rock, dirt, and debris. We cleared the bed area of rocks and debris and piled in pine needles for a soft spongy mattress. 
     The benefit of using the emergency blanket is the aluminized side it has. This reflects heat from a fire keeping you warmer. In addition, the top can be untied from the ridgepole and lowered closer to your body allowing your body heat to be reflected and retained inside. This will also protect you from rain and snow that may fall during the night. If you do this, make sure to leave a small vent to allow air to circulate. There is a real danger of asphyxiation. Condensation can also build up under the tarp making you colder.
      If you are to puncture or tear the emergency blanket, it repairs easily and quickly with duct tape. I carry a small roll for repairs and many other uses while in the field. I have used pitch glue to repair a hole in a tarp. This can be a little tricky. Do not heat the tarp, simply heat the glue and allow it to drip and knead it into place. This will also make the repair waterproof and will last for quite some time. Regular pinesap can also work but can be messy to apply.
 
  
 
    The above photos show the shelter in use. This camp was set up with minimal equipment, all of which is lightweight and can be carried easily in any pack.
     An added boon to this shelter would be to carry two emergency blankets rolled up together. This will allow you to build a double-sided lean too, which will give added protection. A good Frame can be constructed from branches to add rigidity to the shelter. This will also allow you to add more boughs to the rear to close it off or lay on extra on the sides for insulation. The corners can be secured quickly by using zip ties to fasten them to the ridgepole.
     Two G.I. ponchos can snapped together to make a good quick shelter. These can be secured with cord in much the same manner as the above shelter. Poncho liners can be purchased from any military surplus store and can be used as sleeping blankets or bags. 
      On occasions, I have carried two M65 field jacket liners. These awesome and lightweight items can be tied with paracord and compressed to a very small size. I carry these for added insulation and as small blankets. They can also be worn under jackets or over large shirts for added warmth. These are worth carrying. They are light and small when compressed and will take up little room. These can be folded and rolled up so compactly that they can be carried in a BDU cargo pocket.
 
  
 
     Above is an example of one of the set ups I will use on occasion. In fact, this is one of my favorites to demonstrate in a basic survival class. The entire camping kit fits in my Condor II backpack and is lightweight. 
     A tripod shown in the background of the photo supports this shelter. This also supports other gear keeping it off the ground. The corners of the tarp are tied with 550 cord; using half hitches so they can be untied easily. This is so I can drop the tarp holding in more body heat if necessary. 
     I normally despise fire rings. I built this one to illustrate where the fire will go. When the fire is lit, the heat will be reflected back at me from the shiny side of the casualty blanket. Being wrapped up in the wool blanket would make this a comfortable shelter. It has a versatile set up that can be changed and quickly adapted to suit any climate or terrain. 
My Camo Tarp
 
     This particular tarp I carry in my vehicle, you will see this again in this section. I have set this tarp up in so many different ways my head spins thinking about it. These can be found anywhere from hardware stores to sporting goods stores. This is by far one of the best investments to throw into the back of an SUV. I will demonstrate one way of setting this tarp up. This will leave you to dream up more.
 
  
 
     By looking at the photo above, you can see how this simple set up can be utilized in a few different ways. I simply ran a ridgeline between two trees and tied it off very tightly. I also did the same thing at the bottom to keep the bottom in place. The edges were then staked down and the top was pulled tight and attached to carabineers. These carabineers were then tied off to two other trees to hole the entire shelter tightly.   
     The object here is to be able to do a couple of things. Should the weather turn on me I can release the carabineers and pull down the front of the tarp. This can then be staked down with the bottom corners of the tarp. This will resemble a type of tube tent. The ends of the shelter can also be closed up to stop even more rain, snow, or wind. For something that can be set up in so many different ways, I highly recommend having one of these in the backcountry. 
     Since it is carried in my truck, I have the advantage of being able to carry a few other things that will make this ideal for cold temperatures. In the photo on the previous page you can see there is a sleeping bag in the shelter. This is an extreme cold weather bag with a sleeping mat under it. This very warm and cozy addition will keep me warm in the coldest Arizona winters, and believe me it can get cold. We have had recorded temperatures in Flagstaff of negative 30 degrees at night. Now that is cold! 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 2 chapter 5
Natural Shelters - Lean To
 
     In this section, I will cover using natural materials for constructing shelter. These will include debris huts and lean to shelters. These are my favorite types of shelters. They are strong and very durable. When accompanied by a fire, hot rocks, and a fire reflector they are very cozy and warm. In many cases, I have not needed to do much extra to keep warm throughout the night. With plenty of insulation, you can retain your body heat and stay warm the entire night. 
     I will start out by discussing the right way to break your poles for building your natural shelter. This is important to know to avoid injury while taking on a task of this size. It is also important to know not to get into a huge hurry. This can cause you to lose focus on your own safety making it much more likely that you will hurt yourself. Play it safe and keep focused on the task. Also, keep in mind I am not saying that the shelters mentioned in this chapter are the only types of natural shelters out there. By using your imagination and your own intellect, you can come up with just about anything. I am merely trying to give a basic idea of what can be built with the materials found in an area.   
Breaking Poles for Shelter Construction
 
  
 
     The above photo was taken from a video demonstrating shelter construction. Breaking poles is a commonly overlooked subject that I felt would be worth a few paragraphs. In short push the pole to snap it, do not pull! I have seen so many people try to take shortcuts when building shelters. These shortcuts can get you seriously hurt. First off, never jump on a log to snap it to size. You can slip off spraining or even breaking an ankle or taking out a knee. In addition, when the log snaps part of it can come back up and smack you possibly in the head. Break the poles safely by using the "v" in a tree or even a space in two rocks to snap them to the desired length. 
     Using leverage on a log instead of weight will safely break it. Always position yourself on the end of the pole and push away from you. Pulling can result in such force that it will knock you back. This can result in head, neck, or even back injuries. It can possibly even kill you if you hit just right.
     If you must you can even burn the logs to length by placing the approximate area into the fire it will burn to the size you need. If it is a sizable log, you can burn until it can be snapped safely. Once it is to the desired size use your knife or a sharp stone to scrape away all the embers and as much of the coals as possible. This will stop the log from smoldering and causing a possible fire. You can also bury one end of the pole to smother the embers and cool it off. 
The Sided Lean-To
 
  
 
     This lean-to is one of my favorites. The construction takes a little longer at around two hours but it is worth the added protection this shelter provides. Instead of having three open sides this shelter only has one. The added thickness of the boughs and forest debris makes for better insulation. For this shelter, we used a twelve-foot ridgepole and lashed it to the two pine trees on either side. We began laying the framework that will hold the boughs, which in turn will hold the forest debris. Keep in mind this shelter is ok as far as protection from the elements. In most areas of the country, the wind will shift directions. When in canyon country the canyons will in fact act as a pipeline for the wind to blow. Figure out which direction the greatest amount of wind is coming from and go from there. 
 
   
 
     In the above photo, you can see the support poles cut from dead branches that hold the green boughs that make up the "netting" for the forest debris. In this photo, the framework was not complete. We later added more side poles and boughs to aid in closing the two sides. On hot days and warm nights with no precipitation, this alone would be ok. This shelter would provide protection from sun and light precipitation. If there is a possibility of heavy rain or snow, it is best to finish the shelter. With a little added work, one could easily add more branches and poles to close in the front side of the shelter leaving a small entrance for added protection.
     The above right photo shows the backside of the shelter. Notice how the boughs are crisscrossed and woven through and around each other. This makes for a tighter and stronger layer making it able to withstand higher winds. This also seems to make for better shedding of water.
 
  
 
     This photo shows the completed side and back of the shelter. All together with the boughs and debris, this shelter measured three feet thick. This makes for great insulation that will shed rain. If there is snow, it can easily be packed on top of the debris for added insulation. If this is done, I would suggest adding one or two support poles to the ridgepole in front. This will ensure the combined weight of the boughs, debris, and snow does not collapse the shelter. 
     Shelter construction is now complete. Notice the long sticks protruding from the ridgeline of the shelter. I like to leave a few sticking out for drying clothes, hanging hats, jackets, and even boots. With the addition of the pine needles, my Gor-Tex jacket, and a wool blanket this shelter was cozy. So cozy in fact I nodded off for a couple of hours that morning. With the entrance facing East and the wind coming from the North West, the sides of the shelter blocked the cold winter air. The sun in the Eastern sky at that time kept the shelter warm in the morning. 
The Triad Lean Too
 
     Another type of lean too takes advantage of downed trees whether they were cut down or  had fallen down. The construction uses a single ridgepole supported by the tree trunk itself. The other end is simply rested on the ground. A framework of boughs is used to lie over the frame of poles to catch the forest debris.
 
  
 
     In the above photo, you can see why this would be called the Triad Lean Too. Every angle of the shelter makes a triangle. This makes for a very quick and effective shelter. In extremely cold weather, it would only take a few moments to cover the front side for added protection from cold shifting wind. With the small fire next to the entrance, you are able to feed the fire without having to keep getting up and take full advantage of the warmth it will provide. In the photo, you can see a lot of pine duff on the ground. Take advantage of this to insulate your body from the ground. This stuff is amazing insulating material. It will trap dead airspaces keeping you warmer. Just by laying on it your body heat transfers into the dead air spaces warming up the air and holding it in. As you are laying on it, it will in turn transfer that heat back to you.
     I built this same basic shelter while working on a project with GRB Entertainment. I was involved in a survival challenge show that was supposed to air on the History channel. It never did, but at least I can show you the type of shelter I used on the shows filming. This simple shelter allowed me to move on to the next round of survival challenges.  
 
 
 










Section 2 chapter 6
Natural Shelters - Debris A-frame
 
 
 
 
  
 
     The debris A-frame is a simple shelter that can be built in around three hours. It is a strong durable design that can hold up under severe conditions. In the photo, you will notice a fire pit in the foreground. This is called the hunters hire fire lay. Normally I would have this in front of the shelter with a fire reflector. In this case, I was doing an experiment on shelter insulation. I found that conditions are survivable with a shelter alone. The temperatures dropped well below freezing that night and inside the shelter, it was holding in my body heat just fine.   
     I started out by utilizing a "v" notch in a tree to support the rear of the ridgepole. I then made a bi pod lashed together with tree bark. The ends were sharpened and driven into the ground. Since this is a part of the support system of the shelter, I placed two rocks at the base of the poles. This is not necessary but is extra insurance in case the load on top gets too heavy due to rain or snow. This will at least keep the ridgepole from falling on you. Forest debris can become quite heavy when it gets wet or snow packed. You could at this time lash on a couple of sticks off the front of the ridgepole to hang wet clothing, boots, or hats and jackets. This will dry wet clothing when a fire is placed close to the entrance. 
     Also, notice the back of the shelter. The tree helps to close off the back. The sides and otherwise open areas between the shelter and the tree will be filled in later with extra forest debris. This will stop any drafts or possible rain, snow, or ice from getting in.
  
 
     I then cleared out the bed area and began to lay the framework to hold the forest debris. Each stick is sharpened at the base, driven into the ground, and lashed to the ridgepole with tree bark. At this time, you can choose to bury hot rocks from the campfire for added warmth. Burying the hot rocks at this point will allow the moisture in the ground to escape during the "cooking process" to keep condensation from building up on the inside of the finished shelter. In some cases, you can in fact build your shelter differently. This same shelter design can be constructed bed area first. Simply lie down and mark your feet, head, and shoulders by driving sticks into the ground. This will give you an idea of how large your shelter should be. You can then bury hot rocks if you choose to do so for radiant heat for your bedding area. At this point, lay in your boughs for your insulating layer and build your shelter frame around this. 
     In many cases, I have found that the more than one way to skin a cat scenario will come into play. By actually getting out and building these shelters, you will find out that many explanations are just that. They are simply explaining one way to do a specific task that has millions of ways to accomplish it. Each one of the shelters I am covering can be done more than one way. 
     Do not fall into that mindset, if you do not like something about a specific shelter then change it. No laws or county codes dictate how a shelter should be built. To put it another way, do not listen to anyone that has never built a shelter in the first place.  
 
   
 
   At this point, I started to cover the entire structure with two feet of forest debris (the more the better). It is best to pile the debris to a depth of three feet for optimal insulation. This is easily measured by reaching into the debris until you touch the frame with your fingers. The debris should reach your armpit at the proper depth. If you look closely at the picture, I placed green boughs over the framework to act as a net to hold the debris. 
     A door can be constructed out of boughs or by lashing sticks together in the shape of the entrance. Green boughs are then cut and lashed to the frame to act as a net to hold the forest debris. I prefer to build two of these. The forest debris will be sandwiched between the layers of framework and boughs. By adding a door to the shelter, you will hold in more heat making the shelter more comfortable. This will also block shifting wind, rain, or snow from blowing inside. 
     I then added some green boughs and pine needles as an insulator from the ground. Put a sleeping bag on top and went to sleep. The temperature dropped down to 22 degrees that night. The temperature inside the shelter was 57 degrees and a cozy 74 right up against the sleeping bag, not bad for just body heat. For this shelter, I used a jacket to hang in the doorway to act as a door. This blocked the wind sufficiently to keep the inside temperature of the shelter the same all night.
     After the shelter is completed, I like to smoke it out. I will use smoldering juniper or if available yarrow or mullein to do this. The smoke will chase out any unwanted inhabitants that may live in the debris. Keep in mind this will work for most insects not arachnids like scorpions as mentioned earlier. 
 
  
 
     When it comes to your shelter do not build a Ramada. Keep it small, you will have less air space to warm up and keep warm. In addition to this, you can add a fire reflector to reflect more heat into the shelter. Use extreme caution and use common sense while doing this. These shelters are nothing more than oversized tinder bundles. One spark could ignite it, and then you could be in a worse situation than you started with. Also, notice the boots outside the shelter. Normally I will keep them inside the shelter with me. In some cases, I will even place in the foot of my sleeping bag to aid in warming them. Frozen boots in the morning suck! 
    The next shelter is also a debris "A" frame. This was done in a different area all together. I built this shelter in a riparian zone in the high desert. I used the same method of utilizing the "V" or the space between two branches for the ridgepole. The main difference to this particular shelter is the fact that it is made with the entrance facing the tree. 
     My family and I went out to film a family shelter build to see just how we could do working as a team. We did very well especially considering it was the kids first time ever to construct a shelter. We started by scouting the debris piles in the wash for suitable support poles. Once this was done we simply rested the end in the tree and made a tri pod to support the rear. This gave the basic framework that we would lay on the poles that would make up the sides of the shelter.
 
  
 
     As you can see, the entrance is wide. This is because there were four of us that would use the shelter. It made it comfortable enough for four people. The green material was collected and piled on followed by long grasses that would finish off the insulating layer for the shelter. The inside was covered with more of this long grass to keep us off the ground.
     This shelter took around 2 hours for four people to build. We had to build it large enough to fit all of us inside and still be able to hold in enough heat should the night time temp drop. We had to pay close attention to this. Make it too big and it will not stay warm because of too much air space to heat up. Too small and it would not work for all four people. When building a group shelter keep these things in mind.  
 
  
 
     The above photo shows the rear of the shelter. This was made by placing another pole against the tripod we had built to support the ridgepole. This small area made it possible to store gear inside the shelter with us or give a little added stretching room for the occupants. 
 
  
 
     Above you can see me in front a shelter holding a Crayfish. This shelter was built the same way as the previous family shelter. The difference is this shelter was constructed smaller for one person. Behind me, is a fire close to the entrance. This will allow me to warm the inside of the shelter using the tee in front as a fire reflector. This also makes it easier to cook meals and boil water should I need to. 
 
     Notice the covering of the shelter. The green boughs are covered with bark. This made a shingle effect that would be very effective should it rain. The longer ridgepole also offers an opportunity for a remodel should the need arise. This can be closed off further on both sides for more protection from weather. This can also be closed off on one side to allow for a windbreak. This also gives me quick access to tools or spears by leaning them against it. This can be seen over my left shoulder in the photo. 
 
  
 
     I was very impressed with this shelter. This shelter was built by a student and was very sturdy. Look closely at the ridgeline, this shelter was built in a tripod set up. The support poles are forked logs that firmly lock the ridgepole in place. The ends of these poles were then buried in the ground to keep them from moving. The side poles were then added and lashed in place. The greenery is long green grasses piled on to close off any holes. We then placed other debris like more logs and bark to finish it off. The insulating material was added later to keep the student off the ground.










Section 2 chapter 7
Miscellaneous Ideas
 
 
     This chapter is set up to cover a few different additions to the previous subjects. Again in future books I will cover even more of these ideas. They are life saving and are intended for use in a variety of environments. This section is also meant to elaborate a little more on a few subjects that were touched on earlier. I will cover creating shade for use while on the move. I will also cover my wool blanket poncho as well as utilizing hot rocks. 
     One of the most important subjects I think I can cover in this section is vehicle shelter. The most common causes of being stranded in the desert are vehicle breakdowns. I explain one way I set up a shelter using the vehicle as well as a story of my personal experience with helping someone that was stuck out in the desert. I hope I am able to shed a little light on this area. With so many more people taking to the deserts these days it more and more likely that these skills will be needed.   
Creating Shade
 
     The harsh fact about the desert is the lack of shade. In many parts of the desert, that you may have to trek through there is sparse and very limited shade. In some cases, you may be required to create your own. This type of set up is best used to escape the hottest times of the day. This can also be used while on the move while resting and waiting for a safer time to continue.  
 
  
 
     In the above photo, I used a space blanket to wrap around this small Desert Broom. This in turn creates a "survivable" space that can be manipulated to stay out of the sun's rays. As the day progresses the shade will move across the ground as the shade moves so do you. 
     This shelter can be constructed in literally seconds with a variety of materials. In the past I had demonstrated this very shelter using my over shirt as the means of creating shade. I have also cut several branches from surrounding Desert Broom to create a sort of canopy to achieve the same effect. This gets a little tough to do at noon because of the position of the sun and the very short shadow. I prefer using the space blanket because it will give you the ability to hunker inside the bush taking full advantage of the shade. The space blanket seems like it would reflect your body heat and the heat from the ground back to you. I have found that it actually reflects the sun's rays and heat away.  This shelter even allows you to be able to lie down in the shadow at certain times as well. 
Hot Rocks
 
     I do not think I need photos for this discussion because it is relatively self explanatory. The principal of hot rocks is simple. Once large rocks are heated in a fire, they can be buried in your shelter to release their heat into the ground thus warming the inside of your shelter as well as your bed. In the past, I have heated up to eight large rocks and buried them inside my shelter and they kept me warm most of the night. To do this it is best to bury them before you set up your shelter. Trust me this makes digging and burying them much easier. Also if you are building a debris shelter this gives plenty of time for them to cook the moisture out of the ground. This will also keep unwanted condensation out of your shelter as well. Anytime this is done keep in mind the amount of calories you are using. This is all hard work and takes some time to complete. In my opinion, this type of task is worth the effort for a warm night. 
     I have in the past built shelters out of clear plastic as well as tarps with buried hot rocks inside. As the moisture is turned to steam, it will rise and settle as condensation inside the shelter. This can be remedied by leaving both ends open until the ground is dry. Once it is just crawl in relax and enjoy the warmth. In the past, I have even heated smaller rocks by the fire for later use inside the shelter. These were used by placing them next to me and my bed at night. I have also put them in my pockets and inside my jacket. By keeping the fire going all night and rotating the stones in and out of the fire, actually next to the fire, I stayed warm. 
Wool Blanket Poncho
 
     I found an old, used, and abused wool military blanket in some of my old gear. I never really used the blanket; well not as if I use my newer one. This one was being used to cover some boxes and packs in a storage closet. I decided to put it to a better use. As I pulled it out of the closet, I noticed it had a hole in the center. This cannot be any good, I thought to myself. That is when it hit me to just cut out a head hole and make a poncho.
     I see a lot of blanket coats and capotes; while these are awesome, I wanted something a little better suited for desert environments. It does get cold here in the desert, and I mean cold. Wool being one of the best materials to use as an insulating layer I knew this could be a well suited article to use in the field.
 
  
 
     I got to thinking about the military ponchos and poncho liners. If the liner gets wet in winter you are still at risk for hypothermia. Nylon still gets cold against your body if it gets wet. With my wool poncho, I could even use it as a liner for the military poncho. I would even stay well insulated even when wet. In order for wool to be effective in the cold it really does need to as close to the body as possible. 
     With this, I cut the hole and tried it on. Right off the bat I could tell this was going to be a great addition to my winter gear. There was only one thing left to do, try it out. I took it on a video shoot with me to do a winter snow shelter in Flagstaff. With all the moving around, building shelters digging the snow for a fire pit, gathering boughs for the bedding and insulation it really was not that cold. My body was working to keep me warm. Once I was done even sitting by the fire it became a little chilly.
     The night began to come in and the temperature dropped fast. I grabbed my wool poncho out of my pack and put it on. Immediately I was warming up. I always use a wool beanie, wool glove liners, wool socks, and a polypropylene base layer in the cold weather. This is in addition to my M65 field pants with liner and my Gor-Tex jacket with liner. With the edition of the poncho I was given just that much more protection.
     At night I used it to wrap up inside the shelter. With a small candle inside and a fire reflector outside by the campfire, I was not at all uncomfortable. It was not the best and it was not the most horrible night I had ever spent out. It is always nice to find new uses for older gear and rejuvenate it making it useful once again. The wool poncho will now be with me on all winter trips into the field.   
Vehicle Shelter
 
     Vehicles are probably the most common cause of overnight stays in the desert. I come across motorists all the time in the backcountry. Whether they have run out of gas, blown a tire and did not have a spare, or had some kind of mechanical breakdown. Whatever the case may be I find that the biggest issue is they were unprepared for the problem at hand. Once I came across an off roader that really had no business being where he was with the vehicle he was driving. This person was driving a front- wheel -drive car on the trails of Bumble Bee Arizona. If you have ever been on these trails, you know they are hard on even the toughest 4x4. What had happened was he got high centered coming out of a wash and smashed his oil pan on a bolder. With the oil leaking out all over, the place he was able to free his car. He blew his engine in the process. One of the rods had let go and knocked a giant hole in the side of his block as well. He had some water and a little food with him. He told me he could not get cell phone reception where he was. This is really a common occurrence unbelievably. 
     The positive part of this story is I had come along. No I am not being arrogant I am saying I was prepared and able to help the man out. We were 32 miles from the nearest actual town and he had to be pulled from the wash area, through the trails, up the mountain to town. I had chains, ropes, lots of water, food, and extra gear should we had needed it. We looked at the car and tried to find a spot to hook on so I could pull him. It turned out to be one of those situations where I told him to hook it to something he does not want. It was a rough trail and the flimsy extraction hooks on his car were not going to hold. As we got the car hooked up I handed him an MRE and filled up his water bottle. I put my truck in four low and slowly and carefully tightened the chain. My blazer had no issue pulling him over the rocks and out on the trials. As time went on, I looked at my watch and noticed we had been crawling for two hrs and we had not hit the road yet. I told him to stop and we got out to allow the tranny and transfer case to cool before going any further. We sat in the shade of a desert broom and just talked for what seemed like hours. I asked him what he was doing out here with his car in the first place. He told me there was a party he was trying to find. This is not unusual, there are many drug and beer parties that go on out in the deep deserts. 
     Once the transmission and transfer case had cooled, we started up again. Over the hills and across the dry washes, about a half, an hour went by and we came to the main dirt road that would take us into town. By that time he was able to get cell phone reception. I stopped the truck one last time to get a heads up on the situation.  He said he reached his father and he would meet us at the gas station in Mayer. With that info, I pulled him all the way into the town of Mayer to meet up with his father. Turns out, they were very grateful I came along when I did to help. I told them I am out in those areas a lot and I come across stranded people all the time. I sat with them as they waited for a tow truck to pick up the car, surprisingly the extraction hooks held up just fine and there was no extra damage to the car. Once the tow truck showed up the guy was so grateful I had helped him out he and his father went in together and handed me 500 bucks for pulling him all the way there. This was not the first time nor was it the last time I had pulled someone back to civilization because of this very same problem. Like I said it happens quite a bit, sometimes they are so stuck we have to leave their vehicle behind.  
     This story has a very good ending. In some cases, people do not get that lucky. With more and more recreational travelers in the backcountry, there are more and more people getting broken down and being caught completely off guard. I think the moral of this story is simple. Do not take a vehicle off road that has no business being out there in the first place. The second is to think and prepare for possible breakdowns or even the possibility of being stuck. If you are out there in a vehicle there is no reason not use a little of that space for needed supplies should a problem arise. For God's sake go prepared; the desert is not a playground!    
     In this section, I will show my camo tarp again. As I mentioned before it is a very good investment to throw into the back of an SUV. The object here is to create shade so you do not have to stay inside the hot vehicle. The metal and the glass on a vehicle will heat the interior up to well over 150 degrees in the summer. For this reason I recommend that you stay out of the vehicle as much as possible. Keep the doors and rear hatch if you have one open. This with the hood up will signify trouble as well as allowing airflow through the vehicle. In addition, it is very important to stay with the broken down vehicle. It is much easier to see a truck from the air than it is to spot a lone wanderer in the desert. 
     When using a tarp to create a shade for your vehicle I prefer to have it stretch across the road. The reason being should someone come by it will force them to stop and see if you are ok. There are many folks in the world today that will just keep on driving. 
 
  
 
     Above you can see the tarp set up as an awning and attached to the luggage rack on top of the vehicle. The hood is up and the doors are open. This is a sign that you need help. Also, look at the shadow cast by the tarp. This keeps you out of the sun and in the shade where you can rest and hydrate. As the day moves on the shadow is going to move as well. Keeping this in mind you can set up the shelter in a manner that will prevent you from having to move and follow the shadow all day. This particular day I set the tarp up facing North to demonstrate this very principal to an off road preparedness class. 
     It is a completely new ballgame in winter or when the nights begin to cool in the southwest. There are multitudes of things that can be done if stranded. Just remember one thing about your vehicle, its insulation "sucks" not only does it not hold in the warmth it will radiate the cold inward to you through the metal and windows. In the Mountains of the western United States, I have seen photos and read firsthand accounts of the rescuers that had to dig the bodies out of the snow banks after a blizzard or an avalanche. The two things that stick out the most for me is the fact of the bodies being frozen solid. Regardless of being covered and bundled with a heavy blanket they still died by freezing to death. I have also herd of accounts of people asphyxiating inside the vehicle while trying to keep warm. This usually happened by lighting a candle or some other fuel source with the widows up. This is a huge NO NO. This can and will burn up your oxygen and in some cases replace it with carbon monoxide. This odorless colorless gas is a waste product of burning fuel. I suppose the only relief was that these people simply went to sleep and did not wake up. 
     I find several ways of helping to preserve life if stuck in the winter. It all boils down to proper preparation before you leave. Think of your vehicle as a pack mule. You are not exerting any more energy by having it carry your load. That is in essence what it is for. I for one hate the cold you have heard that before and you will most likely hear that again as you read on through this series. With that in mind knowing that, the core temperature must be maintained that is my ultimate goal until I am rescued. I do not care if I look a fool wearing a huge quilt knitted by my grandmother as long as it is functional I am using it. Who knows you could even start a new fashion craze. For me extra blankets or nice heavy sleeping bags will be stowed in the vehicle. I also like the packages of Hot Hands that are sold in most sporting goods stores. These will heat up and warm up any cold spot on your body. Just be sure to inspect them regularly, they do have a shelf life. 
     Water and lots of it! Even though it is cold, it is important to keep hydrated no matter what. In winter if there is snow and ice, this can be melted for water. Ice yields more water than snow, which is mostly air. Having extra water in gallon containers is a huge plus. Having a way to heat it is even better. If you must heat water do it outside the vehicle if possible. There are heaters on the market that are activated with water much like an MRE heater. These will expel huge amounts of hydrogen and can asphyxiate you if used indoors. This is the same with food. I have used heater meals and MREs that are amazing self-heating meals but they also come with water-activated heaters. If you are able to get out of the vehicle to heat up some food and water just having this luxury available will keep you warm from the inside. Also having a high fat meal will keep you warm for hours longer as your body works to digest it. 
     In most cases, if you are able to get out of the vehicle I strongly suggest you stay with it. My opinion a nice snow cave or a debris hut will keep you much better insulated than the car will. Nothing says you cannot build this off the side or back of your vehicle to keep needed supplies nearby. Use your head when doing this, do not build if you are stuck on a highway and there is a risk of snowplows or other traffic hitting you because your shelter camouflages your car. What if you are buried in your vehicle? Obviously, we cannot know how deep into the snow we are. This can be tested if you thought to bring along a tent with fiberglass tent poles. These are usually over ten feet long once put together. Trick is to put it together as you are pushing one end through the snow at an upward angle. You can also ream out the hole as you are going along to widen it so you may be able to see light. Being submerged in snow becomes a much more serious problem. Even breathing can bring you closer and closer to asphyxiation with every breath. Not only can carbon dioxide build up with every exhale but also simply breathing in the extreme cold air can lower your core body temperature from the inside. Sometimes you cannot get out until rescuers are able to dig you out. This means you may have to wait it out. Keeping extra blankets and the aforementioned hot hands handy can help hold in valuable body heat that would otherwise be lost. 
     A couple of good items to carry in your vehicle are a space blanket and duct tape. If traveling when there is a risk of this type of emergency, utilize the underside of the drivers and passengers seat as storage for these items to ensure you can get to them. The space blanket and duct tape are for making a heat retaining wall between the front seats and back seats. This will create a smaller space that will have to be warmed while you are bundled up in the vehicle. This also means less space for carbon dioxide to build up as well. In one corner of the space blanket, leave an opening to help vent the carbon dioxide in to the back seat. The interior of the vehicle can be large enough to allow one person some time for rescuers to get to them. If with multiple people, every effort to free you from the vehicle must be made.
     I have been asked what about the heater in my vehicle? Would it not it keeps you warm inside? The short answer is yes. What gets a little more involved is the situation. If the car has gas and is not buried in snow you can run the engine for short periods to help you warm up. Do not run it constantly, you will run out of fuel. Being buried in the snow, do not run the engine to heat up the interior. There is a huge risk of the exhaust contaminating the air inside the vehicle. Carbon monoxide can and will enter the vehicle by doing this.                  
Conclusion for Chapter 2
 
     With everything read until this point, I hope I was able to shed some light on desert survival kits and shelter. There was a lot of information on these subjects given. Throughout my life, I have been blessed to be able to experience a variety of environments. I have even had the opportunity to study survival skills in these different environments. From Oklahoma woodlands, Costal regions, and swamps I have found that many of these skills cross over into one another. So far, the most difficult environment to learn is the desert. When I came to Arizona, I knew some of what the desert had to throw at me. When I was 12 to 15, I had spent a few summers camping and hiking here with relatives. What make this environment so unrelenting are the heat, lack of shade, and the serious lack of water. I learned early on how to deal with these issues. My brother in law taught me how to find water, build shelter, keep cool, and what to look for to aid in achieving this. To learn was to do and it was very difficult. I thank him now for pushing me so hard and being a literal hard ass on me to learn these important skills. He died when I was 16 and it was a devastating loss. I see him as a teacher and a mentor. Had he not taught me these basic skills at the age he did I may not have ever gotten into writing this book let alone done any YouTube videos.
      All the information I have or ever will show is from my own experiences. I took the time just over a 6 year period to put all of this together. I went out and I did it, all the photos and the demonstrations. I did not read or watch television, I did. All the photos are actual photos taken before, during, and after demonstrations. I even spent the night in the shelters, in some cases a few days. I also tried to mix it up a bit with the gear and equipment. I had gotten the opportunity to do some reviews for some companies on YouTube. After doing the footwork and actually using the products, I saw them as receiving the Arizona Bushman stamp of approval. This actually says quite a bit. I do not care much for carrying equipment. It is heavy, cumbersome, and it will dehydrate you in the desert.  The gear I mentioned is worth it and will hold up. This is one of the biggest reasons I mention carrying this stuff in my vehicle. 
     Depending on what it is I am doing I will choose to use and carry gear with me. These are if I am writing, doing a video, or studying the use of a piece of equipment. I also have a family, this means that I put their safety and comfort above all else. I do not expect them to be able to do the things I do. That is up to me to keep them safe while in the field or on a backcountry drive. I have done a lot of research on the things that can happen while out in the desert. I have also spoken first hand to those that have been involved in emergencies while in the field. In some cases, I have even been there to help the stranded motorist and desert hiker. This is another reason I will carry the equipment in my vehicle. You never know whom you will run into in the desert that may need your help. 
     Take the information I have given you and learn from it. Take the time to learn what will work for you. Find out what equipment you are comfortable with and how to use it properly. If you already have your own ideas as to what it takes to survive in the desert then you have obviously done your own research on the subject. If you are new to this, please be safe and always take back up equipment should something happen to you while practicing these skills. I am hoping to have educated you on some new and possibly interesting ideas. I do not expect everyone to agree with the things I have written. This is not an issue to me, as I said these are my experiences and my knowledge. I have used this information for most of my life and I simply wanted to pass it on to you. Thank you for reading I hope you found this informative.                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 3 Chapter 1
Fire
 
 
     Fire in a survival situation is not only a must it is life. Fire does many things for us. It boils our water to purify it, it cooks our food, keeps us warm, helps make tools and medicine, provides protection, and gives us a very important companion in the wilderness. No one actually knows the origin of making fire. I believe fire came first. Prehistoric man discovered a fire that had been started by a possible lightning strike or even a lava flow. He felt the warmth and realized the benefits that fire could have. At this period in time millions of years ago, the fire had to be constantly maintained and never be allowed to go out. In the event the fire went out they would war and fight over this life giving necessity. Raids were sent out to steal fire from neighboring tribes. With the discovery of how to make fire, everything else became possible.
     Fire by friction is an ancient fire starting method from which stems hundreds of ways to start a fire. Methods such as the hand drill, fire plow, fire saw, fire thong, and the bow drill are only a few of these methods. No one can really pin point the origin of these methods. All we can really know is that man had the capability of harnessing fire. In a popular period film the main character is taken into a tribe and shown how to create fire using the hand drill method. You can really see the emotional turmoil as he sees the smoke and finally the ember being blown into flame. The discovery of how to make fire would have been an amazing experience, literally witnessing the building of civilization.
      Being alone in the desert or in the woods is a very unnerving feeling. Fire, with its presents alleviates the anxiety of being alone. Ancient man believed that fire would attract good spirits and repel bad. Even today, it would seem as if this were true. The slow comforting crackle of the fire does produce a calming effect on the body and mind. It is also believed that a fire kept predators away. This is still to be proven. There have been bear and mountain lion attacks even while there was a fire.
     In order to build a fire you need five things. You need air, tinder, an ignition source, kindling, and fuel. A fire is a living being, it has to breathe and it has to eat and it gives off waste in the form of smoke. The air has to be present in all stages of fire construction. Without air, the initial ember formed will be smothered and can never achieve ignition. The initial ignition can be smothered by blocking the airflow with too much tinder or kindling. Even after a fire is built, it can suffocate by adding too much fuel too fast.
     Tinder is dry fibrous material that catches the spark or ember and then produces flame. For this you can use any fine dried material such as Shredded barks from birch, aspen, junipers, cedars, and others, shredded inner barks from willow, cottonwood, dried grasses, pine needles, and fluff from cattails, milkweeds, or even dandelions. You can also use man made material such as lint, char cloth, cotton balls, finely shredded linens, and others to catch the spark or flame. When using natural tenders' the tinder should be worked in the hands until they are very fine and fibrous. This will give the tinder more surface area to allow the spark to catch. If it is damp, dry the tinder by using friction caused by vigorously rubbing and working it in the hands. 
     The ignition source can be anything with a high enough heat source like matches or lighters, Spark such as fire steels, flint, or friction like the hand or bow drill. This is what gives birth to the fire. There are hundreds of ways to light a fire with or without matches. In this chapter, I will demonstrate a few of the most common of these methods ranging from friction fires, fire steels, focused light, electricity, and stone. It is important that you become fluent in different methods of fire craft long before you are ever in a survival situation. If you are never in a survival situation, you will at least get some oohs and aahs from your friends.
     Kindling is small dry sticks put on the fire from smallest to largest. You should start by adding a few pencil length sticks about a third the diameter of a pencil to the flame. Slowly add more and as the fire gains strength add progressively larger sizes to the fire. Think of building a fire like nurturing a child from birth to adulthood. Feed small portions more often at first then larger portions less often later as growth continues. Like us, the fire will grow strong if fed properly.
     Fuel is what keeps the fire going. This is a large piece of wood that can be as big around as a forearm or the size of the lower leg. It is best to split larger pieces of wood, splitting increases the fuels efficiency. Different woods will burn with different temperatures as well as burn times. Pines, furs, spruces, and aspen for example will burn fast and hot. The flame however, must be fed more often. These make great flame for boiling water in a hurry. Harder woods like oak, hickory, mesquite, ironwood, and birch for example expel their energy much slower. This makes for a warm slow burning fire that has to be fed less often. 
     Hardwood fires are better suited for cooking than that of soft wood due to hotter coals. Never use flames for cooking; this will only burn the food. Use flame for boiling water only. This is used as a rule. Soft wood coals can be used to cook food but generally leave the food tasting objectionable or giving it an off flavor. I have however been in places where this is the only wood available. In a case like this, you will work with what you have on hand to get the job done. Soft woods also make a good charcoal for medicine. Although I have tried this with hardwoods as well, the soft wood tends to have more pores that will open up allowing for the best adhesion of toxins. In a later section, I will cover making charcoal for medicine as well as the basic principles of its use.  
     There are some instances when using flame to boil water is not a generally good idea. You will see one instance in the water section of this book where I boil water in found glass bottles. The heat generated by fire will heat the glass to rapidly casing it to break. This is where judgment and common sense comes into play. You will also see that I pasteurize water in a prickly pear pad made into a vessel. If heated too fast using flames this will harden the outside allowing the flames to burn through. This could spell disaster if close attention is not paid. Being able to make fire is one thing, being able to maintain the fire and use it properly is quite another.
     If there is any advice I can offer at any time during this chapter is take your time. There is never any need to get into a rush while trying to build a fire, especially in a survival situation. This is the time to really slow down and focus on what you are doing. There is no gung ho get it done now when it comes to building a fire. There are methods that are faster than others are and methods that are slower. That is it! In order to use any of these methods it is best to practice until you own the skill. If you have difficulties using a ferro rod get out there and practice. If you have a tendency to pile on kindling too fast, learn to take it a little slower. When it comes to building the fire that will save your ass, speed is not necessarily efficiency. 
 
    
 
     The above pictures show the tinder, kindling, and the fuel needed to build the fire. The left photo: The tinder in this case pine needles will catch the spark with a little added help from shaved fat wood, cotton balls and Vaseline, or even lint from your pocket or socks. Once you have achieved flame, go slow with tiny sticks and work your way up to larger fuel. The left photo shows the fuel, which will be added later when the fire is stronger. The two photos show the progression of tinder to fuel for fire building. Be patient with your fire and take your time. Do not try to rush feed your fire you will be disappointed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 3 Chapter 2
Man Made Tinder
 
 
    There is some great lightweight tinder on the market, which can be carried in a pocket or small pack. Even having a small ferro rod with a little bit of tinder in your wallet can save your life. Having good tinder and an ignition source on hand in case of an emergency can mean the difference between a warm night and a cold death. Check out your local outfitter or even Wal-Mart and see what kind of tinder they offer. For a small price, it would seem worth it for such an insurance policy. 
     Making your own tinder is also easy and inexpensive. A small jeweler's zip lock baggie can hold a good amount of homemade tinder. Cotton balls mixed with Vaseline or drier lint also mixed with Vaseline is very inexpensive waterproof tinder. This stuff will really burn! 
     The next good waterproof tinder is wax coated cardboard. This can be cut into credit card sized pieces and kept in your wallet until it is needed. To use it simple scrape it with your knife until it is fuzzy and strike it with a ferro rod. Wax impregnated corrugated cardboard is good tinder. This too can be cut to fit into a wallet. The added bonus to this is it will hold matches as well. Coat some strike anywhere matches with wax and push them into the edges of the cardboard. When ready to use simply fluff up an edge of the cardboard to increase the surface area and light it with a match.
 
  
 
     The above photo is a demonstration of one of the best types of tinder to have on hand. Cotton balls soaked with Vaseline are tried and true tinder. These can be worked to expose the fibers then struck with a ferro rod. These will catch a spark and burn better than most store bought tinder and cost a lot less to make at home.
     These are made by rubbing the Vaseline into the cotton ball and working it in. I have found some that were over 3 years old that I had misplaced. When I took one out and struck it with a spark, it lit right up. These can be made and stored for a long period. That is something to think about while prepping for natural disasters.
     Another method I use to make these is to take a full container of Vaseline and melt it. I will then add a bag of cotton balls. These will soak up the Vaseline and make what I call a "super sat", or a super saturated cotton ball. These will burn for a very long time allowing you to cook using just the super sats. To cook a full meal may require you to use two. These will also give off a lot of soot that will coat the bottom of your pot. Not a big issue, it will clean easily with some sand.
    To use the super sat as a fire starter you will need to squeeze out some of the Vaseline. Again not an issue, I will use punk wood or even inner pith that is spongy. This stuff will soak up the excess and burn like a candle holding the flame so you can get a fire built. This is by far my favorite homemade tinder that is weather and waterproof.    
    One method I learned about waterproof tinder was from a friend of mine on YouTube named Rodger Fandrich. He took Vaseline cotton balls, stuffed them into plastic drinking straws, and sealed both ends. He did the same thing using cotton facial pads and wax. After mixing the cotton pads with wax, they were rolled up and put into drinking straws. The ends folded over and melted closed.   
 
  
 
     Above is an example of the straws containing the Vaseline soaked cotton balls. These are made up by mixing in Vaseline and stuffing them inside the drinking straws. They are extremely lightweight and they will fit anywhere. I have even placed them between the tongue and laces of my boots. You never even know they are there until you need them. 
     Other types of homemade tinder include dryer lint. This stuff is amazing and when mixed with Vaseline you get what is essentially called Vase-lint. This works on the exact same principle as the Vaseline cotton balls. Lint however, can be found in your pants pocket or pulled off your cotton sock and used when needed. 
 When mixing Vaseline with these materials keep in mind that you do not need to use just Vaseline. Lip balms and triple antibiotic ointment can also be mixed in to allow the material to catch a spark and burn longer. In the past, I have used wax to mix with different materials to start fires while in the field. Among those, include cotton balls, lint, and even jute twine. 
    Cotton balls and jute twine can also be charred in a char tin to make an effective material for starting fires as well. This is done without adding anything to them and renders them non-waterproof. These can however catch a spark very easily and be blown into a flame. To make this it is done the same way as char cloth mentioned a little later.
    One of the best tinder I have used to date is called Mini-Inferno. This stuff was made by Roger Fandrich and was made available for sale. It comes in a screw top metal tin that can be used later as a char tin. 
 
        
 
     These are a secret mix that will catch a spark and burn even when wet. The tin comes with five disks each with a 7-minute burn time. All five can be lit at once while still in the tin and placed under the kindling. Once the fire is really going the tin can be removed, the placed back on and you have char cloth. These can also be extinguished and relit later on. 
     My experience with the Mini Inferno was a good one. I found that what I liked to do was cut a small piece of a disk and fluff up one side. I would then strike it with a ferro rod and get my fire going. I could get several fires with one disk by doing this. As the disk burns, the wax coating will melt penetrating your kindling. This makes the woodwork like a candle to catch a flame faster. 
     The next man made tinder is Wet Fire. This is tinder with a trade secret. Not sure what they use in the making of this tinder but it works. Simply crush one edge and strike it with a ferro rod. This stuff catches the spark and burns hot. It is extremely efficient and can be extinguished and used again later.
 
 
  
 
      Wet fire tinder is perhaps another one of the best store bought tinder available. This stuff will burn while in water. Somewhat gimmicky I know, but it will not absorb water and will burn while wet. This makes very good tinder to carry in a pack or even in a cars emergency kit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 3 Chapter 3
Fire Kits and why to have one
 
     Today there are so many kits on the market at so many different prices. I get emails and questions all the time about fire kits. I try to keep mine as simple as possible and have more than one of each item inside. This is simply because things get lost or even broken. If you lose your only ferro rod you are back to the hand or bow drill to start your fire. These kits are set up to make fire starting easy and quick. This way you are saving calories, body fluid, and energy instead of fighting with primitive methods. 
     Taking fire making into consideration you must realize that survival is a calorie game. It is making use of common sense to use whatever you may have on hand to light your fire. Primitive means of making fire are viable and will work. In some cases, the conditions must be just right in order to get them to work effectively. These are generally reserved for a possibility of not having the proper tools on hand or to preserve your equipment.  
 
  
 
    The fire kit above is actually two kits. One of them I put together inside of a military decon container and the other is a store bought kit from Reprorations.com. Inside the decon kit I try to make sure I have several backups incase the conditions are not right for a certain method. There are several different types of tinder, mostly waterproof as well as two ferro rods. One is a larger light my fire army and the other is a small 1/8 inch ferro rod at the bottom of the kit. I also have steel wool that can be used with the ferro rod and with a battery to get a flame. This stuff is well worth carrying! I also have a Fresnel lens for sunny days. I have had a lot of success using magnifiers for lightning fires in the past.
     Depending on the weather and even cloud cover and precipitation, some methods will not work as well as others. Build your kit for every eventual possibility. Take rain and damp conditions into consideration, these will be major factors when trying to get a fire going, especially when you really need one.
     Let us look at the Reprorations kit. The thing I have found is a good kit. Everything is there that could be needed to get a fire in an emergency. This kit was actually issued to soldiers to augment what they were already carrying on them. This is called a redundancy. Having more than one item or seemingly too much stuff has actually saved countless lives in field.         
 
  
 
  The kit contains:
10 waterproof matches
8 weatherproof matches
4 Hexamine fuel tablets
2 self-lighting kindling sticks
2 tinder wads
1 striker strip
 
     Many people seem to have difficulty using matches. I have heard several people complain about using them period. In my experience as a desert instructor, I have had a lot of success using matches. The weatherproof matches stay lit in high winds and are very efficient when used with the proper tinder. Smaller waterproof matches can be shielded from the wind with your hand to protect it from the elements. The tinder wads act just like Vaseline cotton balls and catch the flame from a match very easily. It does not take much to get these to ignite. I have used these since I was a boy scout and they have never let me down.
    Granted kits like this have their down side as well. If the match striker gets wet, it turns to oatmeal. This can be prevented by putting it inside one of the Ziploc bags along with the matches or hexamine tabs. I have heard of people using the tin as a means of boiling water. This can work but it is going to take some time to boil up enough. The tin can also be used as a signaling devise. By reflecting the sun at the rescuer, it will get their attention. Most searchers will fly patterns at heights of 1,000 to 3,000 feet. This is sufficient to signal for rescue at those altitudes.   
     During the filming of the survival challenge show I was involved with the final task was to signal for rescue. This was done with whatever means we could with what we were allowed to use. The helicopter would do fly bys at altitudes of 1,000, 2,000, and 3,000 feet. We were to successfully signal from all three altitudes to pass the challenge. The other finalist and I flipped a coin to see what side of the field we would get. Once the challenge started, I went for a piece of plane wreckage. It was a piece of aluminum from the wing of the aircraft. I began to polish it up to make a sort of signal mirror. Once the time was up we began to signal. At all 3 altitudes I was able to signal with the piece of aluminum. This was a badly scratched and stained up piece of metal that I polished to make it possible to reflect light to a specific target. If I can do that with a piece of metal, I know it can be done with a small metal tin.
     Being inventive and industrious is a big factor when it comes to building a fire kit. Even more so if you build one from found materials. In some cases, I have demonstrated how to utilize found resources for survival. I see it as being the key element in most situations. For the most part, I can use a ferro rod to ignite a variety of materials. Having said this having materials on hand may not be possible in certain circumstances. Things are lost, broken, or even destroyed. 
     Later in the book, I will be going over wet weather fire starting. In the mean time, I will cover some things found and made in the field to get a fire while on the move. Since it takes a fire to get some of the items in the next kit are mostly used in case you have to evacuate an area quickly or are on the move to a different site.
     Assuming you have not lost or broken your ferro rod or you use a spark from your knife, this kit can be used in conjunction with primitive fire for use in a tinder bundle or as a coal extender. In some cases, there are those extenuating circumstances that will dictate what it is you will need to use. It is called Murphy's Law.     
 
  
 
     In the photo above you can see the fire kit constructed of some found items in the field. There are two tins, one is a SNUS tin and the other is two tuna tins. Both are made into char tins. Inside the SNUS tin is cattail char and inside the tuna tins is char rope. Both of these I will go into more detail later on. The piece of wood next to the ferro rod is fatwood. On the far right, there is a section of Carrizo cane with a piece of char rope inside. A small piece of fatwood is used as a plunger to push the char rope out to the desired length. The fatwood can be shaved into tinder that will catch a spark in wet conditions. The cane has a coating that can be scraped and placed into a tinder bundle for use as a coal extender. 
     There are many resources that can be found and utilized in the field. There is trash; no matter where we go, it is there. In a survival situation, we can take the trash that is left behind by people and turn it into a treasure that can save a life. Having a well-made fire kit will insure that you will be able to increase the odds should you land in a wilderness situation. The ideas I have given are just that. You do not have to make these exact kits. Just know the basic principles behind each item and what is available to you.   
    Why to have a fire kit? This will hold the essential items you need to get a fire going in any conditions. Your fire kit really is an extension of your survival kit. Build it to the conditions you encounter most frequently. If you are in a hot climate that has a tendency to get afternoon showers in midsummer then consider those. Think about your winters and the condition that it may have. You should be able to start a fire in all weather with the planning out of your kit. Here in the desert I can usually get away with dryer lint as tinder and a ferro rod as an ignition source. Other times I could simply use a lighter or a match. One major reason I will have a ferro rod in along side of my matches and lighter is wind. If it is excessively windy to use matches or a lighter, I will skip those and go right to the ferro rod. Also, think of the type of fire you will have, in my case of wind I would do a Dakota fire hole. Sometimes this can also have an effect on what you may throw into a fire kit.
     On wet and windy days, it may be necessary to build a wind block from stone to keep the fire from being blown out at that critical moment. Depending on your preference, you may want something that will hold the fire like a candle. This is also where pine resin, pinesap, or Vaseline cotton balls will come in handy. I also like to keep char cloth in my kit as well. I find that when the wind is blowing I get a little extra helping hand to blow my ember into a flame. By thinking ahead to whatever Mother Nature may throw at you, you can have the upper hand by being prepared so she does not get the drop on you.
     On one occasion, it was so wet that as it rained and sleeted my hole would fill up with water. This was happening so fast I could not keep up with it. This was indeed one of the worse winter storms I had ever had the pleasure of staying out in. At that point, I opted to set up a shelter for my fire. This was like and a frame set up to aid in stopping some of the rain and sleet from drowning the fire I was trying to build. As the rain came down I scrapped the fire hole idea and went for a platform fire instead. I found some dead and down aspen logs and snapped them to make a bed for the platform. I then took some green wood and constructed the platform. At this time, I was wet, tired, and cold. I was finding it difficult to hold onto much of anything let alone a ferro rod. I reached into my jacket pocket and pulled out my fatwood. I shaved off some of this and split it up into toothpick like pieces. After about 15 strikes, I was able to get it lit. The biggest problem I had was the lack of dry wood, each piece I put on the fire I had shaved down to the dry wood. Once I got the fire big, enough it was able to stay burning in the downpour. All the firewood I had gathered was so wet it took hours to dry it out enough to actually burn.
     This was the first time I had ever had to build a shelter for my fire. I had heard of it being done but I had never had the chance to do it. It was a very difficult and humbling experience to go through. At first, I thought I was never going to get my fire going. On a day like that, I would have hated to stay curled up in a shelter while the world around me washed away. Even the inside of the shelter had to be elevated and larger logs with bedding on top of that. I was nowhere near a wash or a river but the amount of rain that was coming down gave me a couple of inches of standing water everywhere, even the sides of the hills. It looked like rivers flowing down the tree trunks. Building a fire in those conditions is very difficult but can be done. This is when having the proper tools to work with is a definite must. Without a well constructed fire kit I never would have gotten a fire going.     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 3 Chapter 4
Wet Weather Fire Starting
 
     Starting a fire in wet weather is a skill that must be mastered in order to ensure your survival. For the unskilled survivor this could prove the difference between life and death. Being wet and cold speeds up the onset of hypothermia making it all the more urgent to get a fire going. This causes the severe loss of dexterity in the hands, the most valuable tool to get the fire going. When building a fire in wet weather remember never use the wood on the ground. This wood has been exposed to rain or snow and is too wet to use. Look in sheltered areas for tinder that has not been exposed to too much moisture. Look for dead branches that are on the tree. These will dry much faster than those on the ground will. If the stick breaks with a sharp snap, it should be dry. Damp and wet wood can be shaved down to expose the dry inner wood. A warning: when doing this pay extra close attention to what you are doing. You will find it takes a little more focus to achieve this with little dexterity. One slip of the blade and you have seriously reduced your chances. I know this from experience. 
     One day I was filming in cold wet weather. The video was going to be a demonstration on processing wood and lighting a fire in severe conditions. The temperature was just above freezing and there was a downpour with a mix of snow. I began looking for "drier" wood and there really was not any. I found some larger pieces that were soaked. I split some of the wood to get into the dry wood in the middle. I cleared an area on the ground and laid a platform out of some of the processed wood for the fire to sit. I began to process some fatwood to catch the spark from my ferro rod. It was at this time I noticed my hands were going numb. Instead of stopping to warm them, I got into a hurry to film the next section of the video. I placed a larger piece of wood onto my work platform (essentially a log) placed the knife on top of the wood and gave it a tap. I made the ever fatal chopping motion to get a bite on the wood! It proved to be a devastating blow. The knife slipped down a crack in the wood and ended up buried in the soft tissue of my index finger. The blade came to rest in the joint severing my extensor tendon. At this point, I did not really feel anything nor could I really even think. All I could really muster was "I did not just do that!" I literally saw the tendon slap back into my hand. I knew it was a bad cut, the tendon, the bone, and the joint was spread open. It did not even bleed for the first couple of seconds. 
     I quickly grabbed my bandanna to wrap my hand. It was then I noticed my finger felt heavy as it dangled there. As I was wrapping I kept my hand above my heart and started gathering my equipment and loading it into the truck. I was well over 10 miles out on and old mining road. It was wet, slippery, and the temperature was dropping fast. I was noticing the road ahead as the rain turned to a solid downpour of snow. There is a huge ravine just as you make your way out of the Wolf Creek area. On one side it is a sheer drop off and it is pretty much one lane. I literally had to drive on the debris pile on the side of the road left by the road grader. This hill was normally slippery in wet weather from the clay make up of the old road. I was slipping all right but not on clay. I was convinced I would be staying the night out. I managed to get a little traction and get my Blazer up the hill. I started to feel a little dizzy; it is not unusual to feel a little shock after an experience like this. I grabbed my camera and began to film on my way out of the desert. I held the camera with my good hand the steered the truck at the same time. I started to do a video of the experience. It aided in getting my heart rate down and centered myself so I could focus on the road. 
     Once I got home, I told my wife we have to get to the hospital. She was a little worried on the way up there; she thought I was going to pass out on the 30-minute drive up there. I really did not know how bad the damage was until I saw the x-rays. There was some extensive damage to the finger; I almost lost the finger right at the hand. It was a couple of weeks before I could get in for reconstructive surgery with well over a year to recover with lots of physical therapy. To this day, it gives me trouble. This is why you pay attention to what your body is telling you. If your hands get numb, take a little time to try to warm them a bit. This means even if you have to burn only fatwood. 
     Once the fire is going Wet and damp wood can be stacked close to the fire to speed drying. A well-built fire will stay burning even in the rain. Take your time to build your fire especially in cold wet weather.
Fat Wood
Two Places to find it
 
    Pitch wood is great tinder that can be used in wet or dry climates. It is the heart wood found at the base of the branches of dead and down pine trees as well as their stumps. To gather this tinder cut a branch off a dead pine tree as close to the trunk as possible. Once the branch is cut, you only need the first eight to ten inches of wood. Cut off any excess length and split down the middle exposing the heart or core of the branch. Shave off all the gray colored dead wood until the yellow center is visible all the way around. Leave it a little long to allow for a good hand hold.
     This method is then employed by placing the sharp edge of your knife blade against the wood. Begin scraping with the knife perpendicular to the wood; you will then notice fine shavings of wood falling and making a pile. These shavings are soaked with pine resin and will ignite very easily.  
     Another great way to utilize pitch wood is to split the heart wood into very small lengths or    splinters which can then be added to the shavings to build the fire. This wood will burn hot and will keep burning for a long time. This is because of the amount of resin that is in the wood. This is probably the best natural material to use to start a fire in wet weather. 
     Another good place to look for this material is in rotten pine trees. In the branches of very rotten pine trees is the knot. Commonly called lighter knot this too is soaked with resin and will burn just as well. I have found this stuff in water logged pines at the bottom of creeks. When I removed the lighter knot, I was able to get a fire going. The resin keeps the wood sealed and protected for years. This stuff is well worth collecting whether or not you are in a survival situation. This material can be kept on hand in case it is needed at any time. On several occasions, I have made trips out to a wooded area in the pine belt and collected this material. I find it to be one of the best natural materials for fire starting that nature has to offer. This stuff can be found anywhere pine trees grow. If you do not have, pines look for spruce trees. The resinous material will do the same thing and is worth collecting.   
 
  
 
    The photo on the left shows the branch on the dead and down pine tree. On the right the photo shows the cut and split branch exposing the pitch wood in the center. These are then shaved down to the heartwood that will be shaved and used as tinder.
 
  
 
     On the left is the finished pitch wood. Most of the gray dead wood has been removed. The heartwood is soaked with pine resin and will ignite with a spark. The photo at right demonstrates the scraping of the wood with the knife blade. The blade is held perpendicular to the wood and scraped up and down to produce the tinder. Notice the pile of shavings building just below the blade. After acquiring the tinder, the pitch wood can be split into several sections and added to the fire.
 
  
 
     The two photos above show the pitch wood in use. On the left, the tinder is being ignited with a shower of sparks. On the right shows the tinder burning, the tinder contains so much pine resin it only took one strike from the metal match to get it to ignite.
    The next great place to look for fatwood is in the stumps of cut down or knocked over pine trees. It can even be found in the remaining trunks that have been snapped from severe winds and storms. It is easy to find by gently sticking or scraping your knife into the discolored wood of these stumps. If the blade comes out sticky then you have found it. I lot of times the sap will be in the form of a congealed puddle on the woods surface. This can be chopped or split from the stump. Be very careful not to pry or stab the wood, it is very dense with the sap and you can snap the blade on your knife. To use the fatwood simply split, shave, or even feather it. Once it lights it lights. This will act as a great fire starter especially in wet conditions. It will hold a flame and allow you to get your fire built. This works a lot like Birch bark in the more Eastern parts of the country. 
Pine Sap
 
     Pinesap can be collected off pine trees....hence the name "pine sap".  This is the raw form of what makes up the fatwood mentioned in the last section. Look on trees that have been damaged by wind or even man. This will appear as globules on the tree itself. Collect it and get a lot of it! Pinesap has so many uses in survival it is well worth the effort to collect. I like to use a container (metal) of some kind and fill it as full as I can then melt the sap in the container for easy transport and later use. 
    To light a fire with pine resin is easy. I use one of two ways to achieve this. The globules can be smashed or broken into smaller pieces and struck with a ferro rod for ignition. You can also use a little fresher sap and work it into a fine tinder bundle then light it the same way. In the past I have taken wooden and paper matches and applied pine sap just below the head for a slightly longer burn time. 
    Pine resin has several uses from fire to first aid. The first aid uses are numerous. It can be used as an antiseptic for cuts and abrasions it can be used on infections to draw out and kill the bacteria. Loose tooth filler and you can place a little pinesap in the hole for temporary filler. Place some under your tongue or in your cheek as a breath freshener and to kill bacteria in mouth sores. This will also aid with sore throats and it is known to have great expectorant properties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 3 Chapter 5
Ferro Rods
 
    Ferro rods or Ferocerium rods come in all shapes and sizes. I always carry one as a backup to my other fire starting methods. These will work when wet or cold and are very dependable. Ferro rods are a mixture of metals that will react with sparks when scraped with metal or even glass. The best strikers I have found for a ferro rod is a broken hacksaw blade or a piece of tungsten carbide like the one on the speedy sharp. One of my favorite rods is called the strike force from UST. This has a large 3/8th inch rod incased in a hard plastic handle and removable cap on the front that has a built in striker protecting the ferro rod itself. The handle also has a removable cap for a compartment for storing tinder like sure fire, lint, and Vaseline impregnated cotton balls. This allows you to have a small fire kit with you that are small and compact. The entire unit is held together with a piece of cord to hold it together and keep you from losing any of the components.
 
  
 
     The photo above shows two different ferro rods. At left is the Light My Fire Army. This has a  inch rod with a striker tethered to the molded plastic handle. At right is the Ultimate Survival Technologies Strike Force. In my opinion, these two different models of fire starters are the longest lasting and toughest on the market. 
    Another favorite of mine is the Doans Magnesium fire starter. This is an old stand by for boy scouts and military alike. It is simply a large block of magnesium with an embedded ferro rod. I have heard mixed reviews on this tool, what I can personally say is if you know how to use it, it is a very useful tool to carry in your arsenal. I will discuss this one a little later in this section.
   What if you have an injury? Only having the use of one hand in a survival situation is a real possibility. Knowing how to properly deal with fire making in a situation like this is extremely important. In some cases, you could drive your blade into a log or a stump and strike the ferro rod on the embedded blade. This does in fact work although it could be cumbersome and risk further injury. 
   There are tools on the market that will help in a situation such as this. These ferro rods have a rod with built on striker that will plunge into the handle of the device. This will then rain a shower of sparks on your tinder lighting the fire. A word of warning on these tools, they are meant to be used in a survival situation, just make sure you can use them effectively as they were designed to be used. Do not use too much pressure or push to one side. These can break! In a survival situation you will be stressed and not thinking clearly. Take a few deep breaths and calm down before you attempt to use them. Keep in mind it is your means of getting this fire lit. This will calm you down enough to get it right. If they do break, the ferro rod can still be used but you will be reverting to embedding your blade if you are using only one hand. That being said they are great tools.
 
  
 
     The photo above shows two kinds of plunge type fire starters, both are made by Ultimate Survival Technologies. At left, we have the Sparky fire starter. I have this one attached to a ball chain covered with a sheath of paracord. This allows me to hang it around my neck or wrap it around my hand as a lanyard. At right is the Blast Match with a huge 3/8 of an inch ferro rod. As I said before they can be broken, but if you use them when you need them they will work. 
 
  
 
     One of my favorite things to do is to improvise gear. This is an empty cigarette lighter. I removed the wheel and flint to take out the guts. I then cut down the metal guard and smoothed it down to prevent scratches or abrasions. After replacing the wheel (backwards) and the flint, I then reattached the guard. The metal guard was also put on backwards to give a slight finger rest while I used the tool. I drilled a small hole in the bottom to allow me to pass a piece of bailing wire as a ring. I can now attach this to a necklace or a key chain. 
 
  
 
     I got this idea from two places. The first was Dave Wendell from Bushcraft on Fire. He did a good video on making one of these strikers. The other was Army Ranger Rick. One of his survival kits comes with a mini Bic lighter made in a similar fashion. I remember using these as a kid in the boy scouts and they worked fantastically. It seemed to be one of those long lost kit items I had forgotten about for many years. 
     This is a very good item to throw in your pack or keep in a car for those just in case situations. Finding ways of utilizing items that would normally be thrown away is a good way to cut kit construction costs down. This will also serve as a great back up striker to save the life of an expensive ferro rod. 
Magnesium Fire Starter
 
    The magnesium fire starter is a great way to light fires in wet or dry environments. This versatile tool allows you to use the Ferro cerium rod or flint by itself or with the addition of magnesium shavings. These shavings are stripped from the back of the fire starter and added to dry or damp tinder. The resulting flame burns at over 1,200 degrees f. quickly drying damp tinder. 
     Many people do not like the Doans Mag Bar. From what I understand, it is mainly because the shavings are hard to keep in a pile. Myself I have never had an issue with using this useful tool. I have used this tool to light literally hundreds of fires in my lifetime. As a kid at the age of 7 I received one in my stalking at Christmas time. While I was in Boy Scouts these were used most of the time to light the campfires. In my opinion, it is a matter of just knowing how to use one and being able to use it effectively.  
 
 
 
  The above photo is an example of the magnesium fire starter. I have found that a broken hack saw blade works beautifully for use in striking the rod and shaving magnesium from the bar.
 
     
 
     By using the broken hacksaw blade shaving the magnesium from the back of the bar is simple. This gives you a fine almost powder like tinder. In the above left photo you can see a small pile of shavings on the log without any additional tinder for viewing reasons. On the right shows the magnesium burning. Once the shavings are piled up this stuff will catch a spark and burn at over 5,000 degrees. 
     To use this tool is quite simple. After shaving roughly, a dime sized pile of magnesium onto dry or damp tinder. Hold the bar flint side out and tilt the fire starter at a 45 degree angle by resting it on the rear corner. This allows the sparks to shower onto the tinder. With your other hand, scrape the flint downward with the broken hacksaw blade while exerting pressure on the Ferro cerium rod. Hold the fire starter firmly and do not allow it to move. Holding this steady on a base will ensure accuracy while showing sparks are falling. This will also keep your tinder in one spot without spreading it around.
 
  
 
     Notice the photos above. On the left, the magnesium is being shaved into the tinder. On the right, the flint side of the fire starter is facing out while it is rested on a base at an angle. The broken hacksaw blade is shaving off a shower of sparks that are landing on the magnesium and tinder. Below is the magnesium igniting the tinder because of the sparks.
     The trick to one of these fire starters as seen in the photos is to keep the magnesium in a pile. The wind can be a huge factor in this. I have had my pile blow and scatter all over the tinder before I could even get a spark. I find that by putting the shavings into a pile in the tinder keeps the wind from affecting it. This will also keep you from having to grab your prepared tinder and get it on top of the fire before the flame dies. Simply make a tinder nest place the shavings inside the nest and allow the ignited magnesium to catch it on fire. In some cases, you may need to gently fold or move some of the tinder over the shavings as they burn. With damp tinder, you may need to repeat this couple of times to be effective. This is not a big issue. In damp conditions, it is harder to get a fire going. This just takes a little patience and the right tinder.  
 
  
 
     In the above photo, you can see the shavings have caught and have spread to the tinder itself. This is the makings of a healthy fire. Notice the long piece of tinder that is burning. The shavings were placed inside this to make a wind block and keep the shavings in one place. 










Section 3 Chapter 6
Chemicals and Fire Making
 
     In some situations, you may have some of the proper chemicals to get a fire lit. In this chapter, I will cover two common chemicals that can be legally carried in a vehicle, pack, or even in your pockets. Some chemicals can be illegal and looked at as bomb making material. Although one of these can be, it is readily available and is carried by most hunters. 
     The first chemical I will cover is Potassium Permanganate. This chemical compound has many uses in the field and can easily be carried in any pack. The second is gunpowder. Gunpowder as we all know is found in rifle, pistol, and shotgun cartridges. These are widely carried by a large number of people. I will be covering a rifle cartridge because most gunpowder found in rifle rounds is slow burning. Black powder can be used but burns much faster.
     In the past, I have used pistol, shotgun, and rifle powder to light fires. It is very effective and burns very hot. This works very well in case of the lost hunter. You will notice I do not mention removing the bullet and chambering the round with a piece of cloth in the barrel. I have tried this and it can work but I have found that most of the time it will make a mess of your tinder. The best way to use this method is to remove the bullet then pour the powder into you tinder and ignite it with a ferro rod.    
Potassium Permanganate
 
    Potassium permanganate or KMnO4 can be used in a variety of ways. In this section, I will cover the fire making uses of this amazing chemical. Making fire with KMnO4 is a lot of fun and if it is kept dry, it is reliable. In my basic and advanced survival courses, I always get a reaction when it comes to demonstrating these uses. This is one of the easiest ways to start a fire in a survival situation.  I will start by saying that the conditions need to be dry to get the best possible results to do this. I use three different components with the potassium permanganate to achieve a chemical reaction. These are glycerin, sugar, antifreeze (ethylene glycol). There are others but these are the most readily available, they are easy to carry in small containers, they do not take up much space and are well worth having on hand. 
 
  
 
     One effective way to use KMnO4 is to put it on a solid base. This will keep it from being mixed into the dirt, getting wet if the ground is damp, or falling into your tinder bundle. I start with a dime to quarter size amount. Then with my finger, I will make an indentation on the top, like a reservoir to hold the drop of glycerin. I will then allow one small drop of glycerin to fall into the divot. I will then cover this with my finely worked tinder bundle or any other type of tinder. The glycerin will soak into the KMnO4 and a few seconds to a minute later you get a chemical reaction and the pile will erupt into flames. This will then ignite your tinder. 
 
  
 
     The photo above shows the chemical reaction of the two components. This reaction took around 15 seconds and lasted only a second or two. This means have your tinder ready! 
     Another readily available chemical that can be used to get the same result is pure antifreeze. I say pure because the less water involved the better. I have had reactions with 50/50 mix but it takes a while and is not as effective. It is the same drill as before, add the KMnO4 and make a divot in the top then add a couple of drops of solution to the pile. A few seconds to a minute later, you have fire.
     Sugar will work with potassium permanganate to make fire as well. I use the same amount of KMnO4. Then I will add same amount of sugar to the pile and mix it in a bit. The object with this method is to get the potassium permanganate to mix with the sugar by melting. For this, you need an ignition source. I have found the best way to do this is to use a Fresnel lens and focus a beam of light onto the sugar. Once the sugar starts to melt It will carry on a chemical reaction on its own from there. I have found I get a little longer burn time when using the sugar. 
     In the case of the stranded motorist as mentioned before you can use antifreeze from the vehicle. If it is watered down, it will not work. Although I have gotten 50/50 mix to work but it takes quite some time to work and it does not get as hot as straight antifreeze. Rule of thumb here is to carry an extra jug of straight antifreeze in your vehicle.   
 
  
 
    On "slightly" cloudy days or when the sun is starting to set, I have been able to amplify the suns light by using a signal mirror to shine through the Fresnel magnifier. Simply face the sun and hold the magnifier with one hand and the signal mirror with the other. It is then easy to aim the light and get the focal point of the magnifier to its optimal distance.
 
Gunpowder
 
  
 
     Gunpowder is a very good fire starter for wilderness situations. There have been countless reports of lost hunters every year during hunting seasons. I have also heard in many instances that they will frantically fire their weapon into the air trying to attract attention. Not only is this not the right choice, can injure or kill hunters or hikers in the area. The bullet goes up and must come down somewhere. They have enacted a law called Shannon's law that makes it illegal to fire a gun into the air. Falling bullets have killed people in the past.
  Instead of frantically firing into the air, simply take a step back and calm down. Get your shelter done and use one of your remaining rounds to get your fire going for the night. 
     I have used two ways to remove the bullet from the shell. The first is to simply use the pliers from your multi tool and pry it off. It can take a little force but by bending the bullet at an angle it will open the neck of the shell large enough to get the bullet out. 
    The second way is to hit the bullet its self with a rock. No not on the top, this can cause the round to discharge. Hold the bottom of the shell in one hand and tap the neck and the bullet the rock. Once it is flattened roll it 90 degrees and tap it again till it is rounded again... The bullet should come right out. If not it can be pushed inside the shell allowing the powder to freely come out. To actually light a fire with it is a lot like using the Magnesium bar mentioned earlier. I will prep some tinder and pour the powder into a small pile in the middle of the bundle. I can then easily strike it with a ferro rod to light the fire
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 3 Chapter 7
Steel Wool
 
 
     Fine steel wool can be used with a variety of batteries. In my experience, 9 volt and 12 volt car batteries work the best, but others can be used. The voltage in a AA or even a D cell battery is only 1.5 volts. Using this method requires at least three for quicker results. By placing 2 of these batteries together and putting one end of the steel wool, using jumper cables on the negative side of the battery with and one on the positive will cause a direct short heating the steel wool. This will then make sparks or heat the end to cherry red. This will give you ample heat in the form of a glowing ember to blow into flame. This can take a little time especially if the batteries are not at full charge.
     My favorite way to use this method is by using the car battery. This is the quickest due to the higher voltage of the battery. I will take a bundle of steel wool, stretch it across the negative terminal, and gently touch the positive. The steel wool will immediately begin to spark and smoke. Once the steel wool gets red-hot remove it place into a tinder bundle and blow it into flames. The steel wool will burn on its own but by adding it to a tinder bundle it will give needed fuel for the fire to keep burning. 
 
    
 
    The above photo shows the initial spark as the direct short is caused. This will then turn red-hot allowing me to blow the steel wool into flames. WARNING: Car batteries will outgas hydrogen. This is an extremely volatile and explosive gas. This was done to demonstrate only! This is to be done only as a last resort. The battery in this photo was drained and had been sitting for several months. You can easily tell this by the very weak spark being made in the photo. It did however still produce a minimal charge, roughly 4 to 5 volts, to short the ends of the steel wool. The safest way to start a fire using this method is to connect jumper cables to the battery. Then touch the steel wool causing the direct short much the same way as stated above. In this particular case, there would not be enough power to travel through the jumper cables to make the direct short.   
     Most people carry cell phones these days. These batteries are some of the best to use with this method. In the past, I have used the battery from my Sony video camera as well as my Kodak Z612. Whatever the case may be having equipment that takes batteries is not always a down fall. Sometimes they might just save your life.
 
  
 
     The above photo shows the red-hot steel wool that was easily been blown into flames. From the weak battery, this took around 6 minutes to heat the steel wool to the point that I could blow it into a flame. 
     Keep in mind the finer the steel wool the better it will work. Fine steel wool will allow the direct short to super heat the wire much faster turning it red hot. In the past, I have gotten very fine wire wool to ignite with 1.5 volts. This can take some doing but it can be done. Steel wool is also good for use with flashlight bulbs. Simply remove the bulb from a flashlight and gently break the glass from around the filament. At this point separate several individual strands of steel wool and gently wrap it around the two wire leads that connect the filament. Once enough is wrapped around this, the bulb can be put back in place and a little bit of dried tinder added the reflector just on top of the bulb. Once the light is turned on, it will smoke. From here gently blow on the tinder and it will slowly form an ember. This is also one reason I like to carry char cloth. One light spark and you are in business.
     Heavier steel wool can work but it may take a little longer to ignite and it could take a lot more electricity to do so. Heavy steel wool I have found is best for use with a 12-volt car battery and some jumper cables. 
     Fine steel wool does not just require electricity to ignite. I have successfully gotten it to light using a ferro rod. The bundle of steel wool must be worked much like a tinder bundle to increase the surface area. Then strike the ferro rod. As the shower of sparks hit the steel fibers it will start to glow red in the places the sparks hit the surface. This can now be blown into flames.
 
  
 
  The sparks from the Light My Fire Army are hot enough to ignite the steel wool. Each one of the tiny steel fibers is heated to red-hot. This allows the bundle of steel wool to catch fire.
 
  
 
  You can see in the photo how the steel wool caught on fire after blowing it into flame.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 3 Chapter 8
Making and using Char Cloth
 
 
     Char Cloth or Char Tinder is an ancient form of fire starting using burned or charred fabric to catch a spark and create an ember. The resulting ember was then placed into a tinder bundle and blown into a flame. Even with all the technological advancements made in modern time this method works just as well today as it did hundreds of years ago. In the beginning of char cloth, they would use two stones usually of quarts and flint to cause a spark to ignite the tinder. Later they would use the flint with steel to make the spark. This works very well with modern flint strikers. The materials to make char cloth can be found just about anywhere. I have found the best materials to use are old tin cans from anything from vegetables, beans, Tobacco, Altoids, or even tuna. On occasion I will receive a tin of cookies for Christmas, depending on the type of cookies will either eat them or dump them out. Either way I will keep the tin. This gives me a very large container to make huge batches of char cloth. Try using tin foil by placing it in the fire. Once this is removed, I will very quickly bury it until it is completely cooled.
     To make char cloth, start with any woven cotton material. This must be 100% cotton with no synthetic blends added. If using clothing for this simply read the tag in the back of the garment.  Simply cut this material into squares to make a kind of patch. These will be placed into a container then put into the fire. The container used in this case will be two bean cans found in the area. The trick to this is to make one fit into the end of the other by corrugating the opening of one can. This allows the cans to fit neatly together to create an almost airless environment. This is important for making char cloth. The gasses must be able to escape from the inside of the container without allowing oxygen to enter. If this happens, the material inside the cans will simply burn and turn to ash. The absence of oxygen allows the material to combust without destroying the fabric. This causes the cloth to turn in to pure carbon burning away any impurities. 
     One noteworthy material is 100% cotton rope. This stuff is amazing! It is made using the same steps as the char cloth. Some of the char rope I have made was 3/8 of an inch thick. This stuff took a spark and held it for a long time. To use it simply cut a small piece off the entire length that was made and strike it with flint and steel or a ferro rod. Once it is placed into a tinder bundle, it will quickly turn into a red-hot glowing mass of fire starting goodness.
     I have made vials out of Carrizo cane to store it in and make it easier to transport. By removing the segments from the cane, I can slide a length of the material inside and just push out a small amount to be used with a small stick. Small plugs can be made from dead branches found laying literally everywhere. I have had students that have carried it inside of cut arrow sections, copper tubing, and aluminum drinking straws that have been somewhat sharpened on one end to allow the char rope to be cut easily to length. An easy place to find more 100% cotton is from an old cotton mop. The mop heads of these can be cut and made into a very nice charred material and can be stored in a container for later use.    
     Among other things I have used to make char cloth are gun patches and lamp wicks. Keep in mind that some of these can have other types of materials mixed with them. If this is the case they cannot be used.    
 
  
 
     Above are the needed materials to make char cloth, these are in this case two cans and some fabric. Notice the fabric being used is denim. Denim works the best for making the charred cloth but you can use cotton tee shirts or even underwear if denim is not available. In some cases, I have even used cotton gun swabs. The fabric must be of 100% cotton. You will also notice the rim of the can one the right. This makes a "stove pipe" to allow the two sections to fit neatly together.
 
  
 
     Above left shows a hole that is punched into the top. This allows the gasses to escape from inside the can. The heat from inside and outside the can along with the size of the hole prevents oxygen from returning to the can. At left, the picture shows how the two cans fit neatly together making a tight seal. Although smoke will escape from the can at the seam, it is tight enough to keep the outside air from entering during the combustion process.
 
  
 
     Place the fabric inside the container and fit the two sections together. Using a pair of tongs; place the can carefully into the fire.
 
  
 
     You will notice the cans starting to smoke and hiss, this is normal. As the cloth, combusts the flames and smoke will escape from the can. I have heard and even read several different ways to make char cloth; all of them had very intricate instructions on how long to leave the container on the fire. My personal experience has taught me that char cloth is very hard to get wrong. I remove the container from the fire when the smoke has almost stopped coming out of the hole in the top of the can. I have also removed the can while the smoke is still rolling. As long as you do not open the can until it has completely cooled you should have char cloth. 
 
  
 
     This is the finished product. After the can has completely cooled, separate the two sections and remove the char cloth. To use the char cloth, place it into your tinder bundle and use a Ferro cerium rod or even an empty lighter to make an ember.
 
    
 
     Above photos, show the char cloth being used. A small spark from the magnesium fire starter without adding the shavings is enough to make an ember. Char cloth can be made before hand and place into snuff cans, medicine bottles, or small metal containers with lids then placed into your survival kit. This can also be made during a survival situation for later use while on the move or a back up fire starting method. 
     Another great method of using char cloth is with flint and steel. This method uses a stone and a piece of carbon steel. When struck together in a downward motion sparks will be produced. Char cloth or char rope is placed on top of the stone to catch the spark. This is then placed in to a tinder bundle and blown into flame. This is a simple method and works well. I will go deeper into detail later in this chapter.
 
More charred Materials
 
     Not just cotton can be charred. In my experience, I have played around with a lot different "charable" material. Some of which includes plants with an inner pith. Wild sunflowers, seep willow, hollyhock, yucca, agave, and mullein just to name a few can be made and used the same way as char cloth. These will accept a spark from a ferro rod and will hold the ember. Some will light and go out shortly thereafter. All will stay lit as long as you blow on it and give it constant oxygen, you can get a fire. 
     Other materials I have used consist of plant fluff from cattail, desert broom, milkweed, and others have worked well for fire starting. One misunderstood detail about using these materials is they must be packed tightly in the container and used compressed inside the container. However, they do work and are worth mentioning.  
 
Flint and Steel
 
    Flint and steel is a primitive method of fire starting using a piece of high carbon based steel on a stone to create a spark to make an ember on to a piece of char cloth. This has been done since before the middle ages. My choices of stones are those of flint or chert, quartzite, and others for optimal sparks. When using this method, I use a little bit of flint knapping to make sure I have a sharp edge for the striker to make contact. 
     I have used old broken files with one edge ground off as well as any uncoated high carbon steel knife blade. Hold the stone in front of you making sure the striking edge is at a 90 degree angle from the ground. The striker should be perpendicular to the striking edge of the stone. Bring the striker up and straight down striking the edge of the stone with the edge of the steel. This will take practice before you can effectively catch a spark on a piece of char cloth. 
 
  
 
     The photo above shows the piece of quartzite as the striker throws sparks. The char cloth is placed on top of the stone. As sparks are shaved off the metal, they will spark at such an angle that they will land on the char cloth and make an ember.
     Now how do we test stones to see if they will work for this method? Do what I do, carry a broken file as mentioned earlier and just start trying to spark stones. In my area, there is a lot of quartzite and quartzite mixed stones. Petrified wood or agates work well with this method. There are a plethora of stones to pick up and spark. As far as tinder for this method, the only things I have gotten to work the best are charred materials
. 
  
 
     After striking the stone with the striker if the spark caught the char cloth, it will glow red. This is then placed into a tinder bundle and blown into flame. Remember this takes practice just like anything else. Work with it and master it. Flint and steel are a very good and viable way to light a fire. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 3 Chapter 9
Focused Light
 
 
     Using focused light to start a fire has been done for thousands of years. The ancient Romans as well as the Greeks used a parabolic dish to create what was called a "Death Ray" as far back as 212 BC. This was developed by Archimedes. This proved to be somewhat effective. The enemy ship would need to sit still for some time while the focused light did its job at considerably close range. The principal of the parabolic dish shows that lighting a fire with this method will work. Some types of parabolic dishes that I have experimented with in the past are the reflectors of flashlights to polished bottoms of aluminum beverage cans. 
     Another method of using focused light is with a magnifying lens. Today most commonly used and carried in survival kits is the flat card like Fresnel lenses. These are amazing to keep in your wallet in case they are needed. Other types of lenses that I have used are from cameras, telescopes, and binoculars. In the past, I have also experimented with improvised lenses by using clear water in a plastic bag, clear water bottle, and even a condom. These will work but in some cases getting the focal point, right can be a little difficult to say the least. However, I think we can remember playing with our parent's magnifying glass in the front yard as a child. Whether we were burning ants or just making objects smoke we can see that this method of lighting a fireworks. 
     On a hike a long time ago, I must have been 14 hanging out with some friends. One of the friends pulled out a cigar from his pack and said, "Hey guys look what I have". Being 14 we were all really excited at the thought of being able to puff on a huge cigar. The happiness quickly waned when we realized no one had a lighter or matches. The quick thinking of one of my friends was to use his glasses. Boy did it work! If my parents did not know that story.....I guess they do now.
 
Parabolic Dish
 
      Starting out with the parabolic dish, you will find that it takes a little practice. I will start out by demonstrating the use of a soda can. By looking at the bottom of a soft drink can you can see it is concaved. You will also notice it must first be polished. There are a number of ways to do this. One very popular article mentions using a chocolate bar and a rag to buff the surface to a mirror shine. I have personally tried this and it does work along with toothpaste and even stropping compound. 
     One of the ways I have effectively polished the bottom of the soda can was with very fine sand, a bandanna, and some water. While this took quite some time to achieve but it was functional. The fine sand was to be used as a coarse abrasive while the water was used to clean off the removed material. It is also best to be choosy about how coarse of sand to use, remember the finer the better. Too large of sediment will only gouge the surface of the can making you have to work twice as hard or possibly even ruining your project all together. Once you finish the sanding process, you will move onto buffing. This can be done two ways. First is to wet the bandanna and rub it in a circular motion on the bottom of the can. The smoother cloth will act as a very fine buffer to remove material and essentially buff out the scratches. The other way I have done this is to put a little fine sand into the bandanna and twist it into a ball. This is then soaked in water and rubbed on the bottom of the can. I found this to be a real finger saver.
     There are also premade parabolic dishes as well. In the past, I have removed the reflective cone from a military flashlight and achieved the same result. Some of the literature I have read about using these is to place the tinder in the hole were the bulb would sit. Personally, I prefer to hold the tinder over the reflective cone and focus the light that way. 
 
  
 
     What kind of tinder will work with a parabolic dish? I have found that any fine worked tinder will do just fine. It does not matter if it is dried grasses, shredded bark, pocket lint, cotton balls, jute twine, or even char cloth. However, I have found this method to work very quickly while using char cloth as tinder. The focused light from the reflective surface will make an ember on char cloth in literally a second if done correctly.     
 
Magnifying Lenses
 
     Another way to focus and amplify the light from the sun is to use a magnifying lens. A Fresnel lens can be purchased for a buck and will fit in the credit card slot in your wallet. These are very strong and it does not take long to get a fire going with one of these. On days with full sun, simply focus the dot of light on your tinder and hold it there. After a few seconds, you will notice it beginning to smoke. If done properly it will begin to smolder. This can then be blown into flames. You may need to make adjustments while using this method. Move the lens closer or further away from the tinder to make the dot of light as small as possible. This pinpoint of light is when the light is at its hottest and most concentrated. One of my favorite ways to use this method as well is with char cloth or char rope. Like the parabolic lens, the ember is produced almost instantaneously.
 
  
 
     Using the Fresnel does take a little practice to become proficient. In the photo above, you can see the Fresnel magnifier doing its job. The tinder bundle is billowing smoke. This is a sign that it is ready to be blown into a flame.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 3 Chapter 10
Friction Fires/the Bow Drill
 
 
     I have been using the bow drill since I was in the boy scouts at age 10. I found it to be the simplest way to start a fire without matches. It was a little difficult to learn a good technique that worked for me. Since then I have been able to get an ember in 10 to 15 sec. I will demonstrate the construction and explain step by step to make it easier to follow along with me. I will start with the bow, for that find a piece of green wood about as long as your arm and about as big around as your index and middle finger. You can use any good sturdy wood at just about any length as long as it does not break when flexed. I prefer green wood because it automatically adjusts your string tension. This keeps you from having to adjust your string by untying it from the bow then retying it.
    You will need to cut notches at each end of the bow. This is to prevent the cord from sliding on the bow. I also prefer to wrap the cord around the ends a few times to ensure a tight and secure hold on the ends. This will also give room for adjustments if needed. When tying the cord do not take up all the slack in the string. Allow for the thickness of the spindle to make the cord tight. The photos below show the bow and the bowstring. On the right notice, there is a small amount of slack in the string. On the left, you can see the cord wrapped a few times around the ends of the bow.
 
  
 
     The spindle is the drill bit of the bow drill. For this, use a piece of dry hard wood. Here in the desert I use yucca stalk or seep willow about as long as my hand and about the diameter of my ring finger or pinky. I have had people ask why I cut my spindles so short instead of 10-12 inches. The reason I do this is because of the control I gain over the bow, spindle, and socket. The idea is simple, I am simply lowering my center of gravity gaining that much more control. Those of you that have done this with longer spindles know what I talking about trying to stabilize while starting the drill. It sometimes flies apart while trying to start the hole in the fireboard. After cutting your spindle, remove the bark. If the bark is not removed, it will fray and can interfere by brushing away the wood dust from the fireboard. 
 
           
 
     The photo above is an example of a spindle. This is a section of seep willow cut to about six to eight inches long. The photo on the right shows the rounded taper of the ends. Some people like to sharpen the spindle on one end in to a point. This may be easier for the beginner to balance the spindle on the fireboard. 
     The socket or bearing block is what it sounds like. It is a block of wood, bark, bone, or stone that allows you to apply downward pressure on the spindle while it is in motion. Use a piece of wood any kind will do as long as it is not rotten or brittle. Bore a small hole in the center for one of the ends of the spindle to fit into. Put some green grass into the hole to act as a lubricant. This will keep the friction away from the socket and on the fireboard. You can also use oil from the sides of your nose as a lubricant.
 
 
 
     The photo above shows a cow's anklebone or astragalus bone that I use as a socket. The bone fits very well in the hand but can be difficult for the beginner to master.      The fireboard is a piece of softer dry wood used to produce the ember. I use a piece of cottonwood or a saguaro cactus rib from a dead and down saguaro. Split the wood into a flat 1/2 inch section about 10-12 in. long and as wide as two to three fingers. Bore a small hole in the surface about 1/4 in from the edge to fit the rounded end of the spindle. Insert the spindle and begin to work the bow to burn the hole for the spindle. Do not attempt to create an ember at this time. You are simply making the hole to perfectly fit the spindle and align the notch in the proper place.  Cut a "v" notch into the edge of the board and to the center of the hole. This is to catch the ember as the spindle shaves and heats up the wood particles from the fireboard. 
     One variation for the notch is to round the edges off the underside. This creates more of a pocket for the dust to gather. This will also make the dust more compact ensuring the ember will not fall apart during transfer to the tinder bundle. 
 
                           
 
     Above is a photo of the author's fireboard. Notice the "v" notch and the starter hole. This is done to give a starting point for the spindle. As the spindle bores the hole out the hole will widen into the notch and will catch the ember.
     The tinder bundle is dried grass or tree bark that is rubbed and turned in the hands to break it up to become more fibrous. This will increase the surface area of the material allowing it to catch fire. Simply take cedar or juniper bark, dead dry grasses, or even the inner bark of the cottonwood tree. Take it in strips, hold them crossways in the hand, and rub back and forth. The tinder should twist against itself and expel a fine powder. The powder is simply the excess bark breaking away to expose the fine fibers. This will also dry damp tinder. Once you can see fine fibers fold in half and fold it in on itself. It should resemble a bird's nest at this point. 
 
  
 
     In the photo above, you can see just how to hold and position the bow drill. It really does not matter what hand you use for this method as long as it is comfortable to you. I like to have my foot close to the spindle. This gives me more control and changes my center of gravity. It does not matter which foot you use as long as it is the same as your socket hand. Kneel down on one knee, rest your shoulder against your knee, and reach around your shin to hold the spindle in place. Use the same hand to apply downward pressure onto the fireboard and you spin the spindle with the bow in the other hand. Make sure you brace your hand at the wrist against your shin. This is crucial to maintain the proper balance required for this particular method. As you work the bow back and forth, gradually increase the speed and use the entire length of the bow. 
 
    
    You can see in the photo the smoke is really rolling. Support the spindle and the socket against your shin for bracing. Use your wrist to apply downward pressure. With practice, it should become one fluid motion. At this point remove the spindle from the fireboard and gently tap the ember from the notch. Once you have removed the ember gently, fan it with your hand until you see a small glow coming from the pile of dust. To achieve a bow drill fire it only takes an ember the size of a grain of rice. 
 
  
 
    Gently place the ember into the tinder bundle and blow softly into it. You will begin to see the tinder bundle smoke and produce more embers. Slowly increase the amount of pressure while blowing into the bundle. The tinder bundle will soon catch into flames. Watch your whiskers! The tinder bundle should be worked in the hands to break it down and make it more fibrous. In this picture, I used cottonwood bark. 
 
The Two-Stick Fireboard
 
     This method of fire making I found works best with the bow drill. This is another time saver when it comes to building the all-important fire. This is done by cutting two sections of suitable wood for the fireboard. These are then lashed together with synthetic or natural cordage. I have successfully done this by using two pieces of cottonwood, juniper, mule fat, or aspen. 
     The principal is the same with all fireboards except you do not need to cut a notch to catch the ember. The notch is made with the board itself. The space between the two pieces of wood forms the notch allowing the dust to collect and forming the ember. A friction is created by the working of the spindle with the bow the dust will collect around the edges of the spindle. This will then be knocked into the notch where heat will build up creating your ember. This is then added to tinder bundle and blown into a flame. 
     Using this particular method will also eliminate the need for a leaf or piece of wood to collect the ember to transfer it to the tinder bundle. This is a self contained fireboard. This method will also require a lot of practice beforehand to get the feel of how this board actually functions. Because of the long channel created by the two sections the spindle will want to walk from one side or the other. The way I personally combat this problem is to place my foot closer to the spindle to get it started. I have even started the spindle at an angle to lock it against my boot. This way I do not even have to make a seat for the spindle. Once the seat is started you can go to town. 
 
  
 
     In the above photo, you can see the two-stick fireboard. Notice the dust collected between the two sections of mule fat. This is exactly how the ember is formed. This can even be achieved by leaving one end untied and using your foot to hold the two together. 
     Removing the ember is done the same way as with using the traditional flat board. Turn the board over and tap it with your spindle. This will dislodge a stuck ember transferring it to the tinder bundle.                                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 3 Chapter 11
Friction Fires/the Hand Drill
 
 
    The hand drill is much like the bow drill I spoke of on the previous chapter. This too is an ancient fire starting method. It is believed to be older than the bow drill. This method uses fewer parts then the bow drill, which is great in a pinch if you have no cord or no available material to make it. Instead of using a bow and socket, you are using your hands to exert downward pressure and spin the spindle. For this, you will need a longer spindle than you would on the bow drill. As I said It is a simpler method but much harder to master. Make the fireboard the same way as with the bow drill using a soft dried wood. As I mentioned before I use cottonwood or dead and down saguaro cactus rib for this. Split the wood into a flat 1/4 inch section about 10-12 in. long and as wide as two to three fingers. Bore a small hole in the surface about 1/4 in from the edge to fit one end of the spindle. Place one end of the spindle onto the fireboard and begin spinning with downward pressure. This is to seat the spindle and to align the notch. Cut a "v" notch into the edge of the board and to the center of the hole. This is to catch the ember as the spindle shaves and heats up the wood particles from the fireboard.
     The biggest trick to mastering the hand drill is patience; be patient and you will get it. Do not try to rush the hand drill you will only end up with some smoke and an insane amount of blisters. While teaching fire by friction I have heard students change from polite to angry and nasty minions in a matter of a few minutes. In a case like this, all I can do is reassure you and the students that the frustration is completely normal. At the same time, I have seen students get an ember in less than an hour of working with the hand drill. That to me is amazing, as for the rest of us it defiantly takes some time.     
 
    
 
   In the above photo, you can see the fireboard and the spindle. In this case, I used a cottonwood fireboard and a two-foot section of yucca stalk. In the right photo, you can see the notch cut into the edge of the fire board (arrow). This was done after seating the spindle.  
     The kind of material used for this method of fire making is crucial for success. I prefer to use a soft wood for the fireboard like cottonwood as mentioned earlier. If cottonwood is not available you can use poplar, sagebrush, and in some cases I have gotten pine to work if it is not to resinous or brittle. You can also use yucca on itself by splitting the stalk and making your fireboard. Most of the time; the proper materials are found by experimentation and through trial and error. 
     The spindle is also crucial to mastering the hand drill. As I mentioned I used yucca stalk for this spindle. The variety of yucca I used is known as bear grass. Others such as banana yucca, sotol, and soap tree yucca can also be used. In other parts of the country were yuccas are not available you can use weed stalks like, milkweed, mullein, cattail, and thistles. Whatever spindle you decide to use make sure you smooth of all the splinters, thorns, and any rough spots, your hands will thank you for the extra effort.
 
  
 
     In the photo above you can see just how long to cut your spindle, it can in fact be longer if desired. In this case, I cut it at just around two feet. This gives you plenty of spindles to work with. 
     Now that I have touched on materials let us talk about body position. With the bow drill, you would place your foot on the fireboard to hold it steady. With the hand drill, I prefer to place my knee on the hearth to prevent it from moving or to sit with my foot on the board. This also allows your body to have a lower center of gravity while working. Being closer to the fireboard also allows you to get the most use out of the spindle. This also allows for quicker recovery time at the end of a cycle. 
    The cycle is over after your hands reach the lowest point of the spindle. Starting at the top of the spindle your hands will slowly work their way down as you turn the spindle and exert downward pressure. It is very important to be as fast as possible at this point to prevent the heat built up by the friction from dissipating.
 
  
 
     The above photo shows my son using one of our favorite positions while using the hand drill. This position uses a lot of arm strength to apply downward pressure on the spindle. This can cause a lot of fatigue if you are not used to this position. 
     When starting the hand drill remember to pace yourself. Do not get into a hurry and hot rod the spindle right off the bat. Start by slowly turning the spindle with minimal downward pressure. As you slowly increase the speed and pressure, you will notice the fireboard beginning to smoke. The dust gathering in the notch and on the piece of bark that is placed under the fireboard will begin to turn black and start to smoke. This is where I start to hot rod the spindle and apply more pressure and speed to the spindle until the pile of dust smokes on its own. 
 
    
 
    In the left photo, you can see the smoke from the spindle and the dust that has accumulated on the piece of bark. In the right photo, you can see the ember glowing in the wood particles. This is what is placed into the tinder bundle and blown into flame. The ember only needs to be the size of a grain of rice to get a fire. Once I have achieved an ember I like to give it a little time. This will allow the ember to grow. Once I remove the board, I will slowly fan the ember with my hand to circulate the air and feed it some oxygen. You never want to get into a hurry at this point. You can easily kill your ember that you worked so hard to get. By taking it easy and not getting into a hurry, you can make the ember grow to the size of a silver dollar.     
     Therefore, we have discussed the bow and hand drill method of friction fires. Now I will discuss what materials will work well for these primitive methods. Some are more difficult than others to use. For both methods, I prefer to use a wood that has inner pith. This will give the wood a lower ignition point thus making the fire by friction methods a little easier. In addition, some of the woods I am covering that work with the hand drill will work with the bow drill as well. Remember just because it will work with the bow drill does not mean it will work with the hand drill. What is the reason for this? Well with the bow drill, you are able to exert a lot more downward pressure and a lot more speed to the spindle, which is required for some woods. The hand drill you are using mostly your hands and arms to exert the speed and pressure. This makes some of the combinations extremely hard to use with the hand drill. In addition, the wood I am discussing is the easiest and most readily available year round.
 
Bow drill spindles: Seep Willow or Mule Fat, Desert Broom, juniper, willow, aspen, cottonwood, pine, yuccas, and sumac to start out with.
 
Fireboards: Saguaro rib, yuccas, Mule Fat, pine, juniper, sagebrush, willow, aspen, cottonwood, pine, desert broom, and sumac.
 
Hand drill spindles: Mule fat, milkweed, mullein, yuccas, I am keeping this list short. These have great inner pith that makes these perfect for the hand drill. There are others. I have found these to be the easiest for me.
 
    Hand drill fireboards: Aspen, cottonwood, yuccas, saguaro rib. Another short list, again these are the easiest for use with the hand drill method in my opinion. By looking at the types of wood available, you can see that this can be done at several different altitudes. Even high in the mountains you can find these materials.
    When using the bow drill or the hand drill, check out your general area. Look at the different types of wood available. Pick some up and press your thumb into the wood. If it leaves an indentation it is soft enough for use as a fire board. One of the best places I have looked for fire board material is in flash flood areas. The wood is all piled up and waiting for you to pick through it. In very dry times of the year these are just like a hardware store. I also use these for shelter materials, not shelter location but building materials. Use caution when looking in these areas. Flash floods are a real killer in the south west. These can also house dangerous reptiles like rattlesnakes. 
    When choosing your spindle cut a plant that is dead standing, the stuff on the ground is usually too far-gone to be used for a spindle. It becomes excessively brittle to withstand the force of the hand or bow drill. I have also cut dead branches off trees to get a good spindle or fireboard. A dead branch of juniper will usually give you a great fireboard and a spindle, as with Aspen. 
     Saguaro ribs are also a great material. Using these as boards, I have had awesome luck with both hand and bow drill. For starters, the stuff splits like a dream and carves very nicely. I have used mule fat, mullein, and yucca on this wood with great success. 
 
Hand Drill Spindle Variation
 
     One of the issues I have encountered so many times while in the field is the finding of perfect wood types for the spindle but the wood is too crooked to use. One way to overcome this obstacle is to use your head. By doing my research and practicing beforehand, I have learned your spindle does not need to be straight nor does it have to be that long. 
     Consider the electric drill. Even though you do not have a drill in the field, you can still make a "chuck" to attach the actual "bit" to the hand drill itself. I have found on several occasions that mullein, yucca, and mule fat are too crooked to use to start a fire with any primitive method. In cases like this, I will locate a different type of wood altogether. As long as the wood is straight, it does not matter what kind you use. 
     Start out by selecting the straightest section of wood you can. This can be from a nearby Juniper, cottonwood, oak, or even a walnut. Then simply cut a notch in the end of the wood to affix the section of wood that will come in contact with the fireboard. This is done by cutting halfway thought the drill at about 3 to 3 1/2 inches from the end. You can then split the end of the drill until you reach the notch. 
     Next, find the straightest section you can in your spindle whether it is yucca, mule fat, or even mullein. You will find it is easier to split a mating surface with the woods that have a pithy center. Making the mating surface is done the exact same way it was done for the drill. You may need to clean up the cuts in order to get them to mate properly. At this point, you can apply sap, wax, or even glue to the two mating surfaces if needed. This is to stick them together and keep them from slipping when pressure and centrifugal force is applied. To finish securing the two together simply wrap them with some cord very tightly.  
 
  
 
     The photo above shows the finished hand drill spindle ready for use. I used a section of walnut and mated a bear grass bit. This method can also work with the bow drill but extra care must be taken to ensure a proper fit. Using this for the bow drill will cause an extreme amount of force to be exerted on the spindle. In the past, I have used pitch glue to secure the two together then lashed them with natural cordage. Keep in mind you need a fire to use pitch glue. 
 
River Cane Hand Drill Spindle
 
  
 
     This is a cool spindle set up. This has to be one of my favorites to play around with; a section of Carrizo cane (river cane from back east) that has been split with piece of bear grass installed in the end. This is then tightly wrapped with jute twine. You can substitute jute with any other kind of natural cordage. I find that it fits more securely to run the leading end of twine or cord into the split. This will fit between the walls of the cane and the carved wood that is intended for the friction fire. This allows a super tight fit keeping the bit from moving and possibly turning inside the shaft while in use.  The natural cordage, in this case jute twine can be used also as a coal extender inside the tinder bundle. I like to wrap a slightly excess amount of this cord to the end to secure the bit in place. This way I can remove some cord to add to the tinder bundle should I choose to. This will also allow for extra while changing to a new bit.  
     The cane shaft is interesting as well. I have found through playing with this method that you will need to shave off some of the outer smooth surface. This will give you some much-needed grip in the spindle while it is in use. Also, do not forget to put the skinny end up. Like all hand drill spindles you will notice that the fat end being down toward the board will give you that much more ability to add downward pressure.  
 
The Broken or Split Stick Fireboard
 
     This particular fireboard was made by simply splitting a stick. In this case, I used Soap Tree Yucca for the board. I have in the past used cottonwood branches. I simply smacked them against a tree and used the broken end to get a fire going. This works very well with either the hand or the bow drill. 
   The case of this fireboard being, do not worry about not having the proper tools to get the job done. There truly is more than one way to skin a feline. By using your head in any given situation, you can find inventive ways to adapt. I strongly believe that in many situations prehistoric man did this very same thing to make his fireboards. This method is fast, easy, and very effective especially when very little or no tools are available. On few occasions, I have had to break a stick a few times to get the right break. As long as you have a broken section, which is a -inch thick and big enough to get your spindle on the board you are good to go.
 
  
 
     This is an example of the split stick fireboard. This particular board is made by simply splitting a section of soap tree yucca. I have made this same board using stool as well as split cottonwood and aspen branches. 
 
  
 
     The Photo above shows the split stick fireboard in use. I am also using my favorite body position for this method, the sitting position. This method is easier for me but requires more arm and upper body strength to accomplish. 
One Handed Fire Starting
 
     The possibility of being injured during a survival situation is very high. No matter what the injury it will make getting a fire going very difficult. In some of my classes, we will do drills and exercises on how to build a fire with one hand. There are always those that cannot get it. After showing two ways to get a fire with one arm they really gain confidence and try again. Once they get the fire going, they gain a new appreciation for having two functional hands. 
     My personal experience has taught me the hard way to light a one handed fire. I was filming a YouTube video one winter while it was raining and sleeting. This alone caused me to get into a hurry and not pay attention to what I was doing. As I was splitting some wood with my Ka-Bar, I slipped. There was the initial "Oh Shit" moment, which slowly moved into the "did I really just do that" thought. What had happened was after I slipped I caught my right index knuckle and sliced the tendon. I even watched it slap back into my hand. It was a very humbling experience to say the least. This was not the first time I had cut myself that badly, it has happened on two other occasions. However, it had never happened while I was in the wilderness. All I could think about was what if this was a real survival situation? This would have seriously immobilized me. I hopped into my truck and headed the thirty miles home down a desert back road. Once I got home, I still had an additional 20 to 30 miles to the hospital. Again, this was a very humbling experience. It could have been a lot worse than it was. Having an injury of any kind that far out, can land you in serious trouble. 
     After I had gotten it sewn back up and before I had surgery, I decided to use this to my advantage. I needed to go out and see where my skills where. I had never tried to adapt to teaching wilderness skills with one hand. This particular incident was one of the best life's lessons I had ever received. I was actually very thankful that I had the chance to experience such an issue just so I could teach others not only the value of knowing how to adapt with one hand but also the value of cut resistant gloves.
 
     
 
     The above photo shows one way I start a fire with one hand. Once this is practiced, it actually becomes easy. I believe that is the key to this method. This needs to be practiced to the point of perfection before the skill is needed. By doing so it will be much easier to do and achieve a fire should you ever find yourself in that situation. 
     The way I did this was to find a log. In this case, I found a lightweight cottonwood branch. I then used my saw from a multi tool to cut a groove across the grain of the branch. This is to set the striker for the ferro rod into so you do not have to hold it. I then placed my dry material on top of the log and prepared my kindling and fuel. One mistake I see a lot of folks make is they will put the ferro rod under the tinder. I personally found that this can take much longer and you may not end up with a fire. I prefer to press the tinder down with the ferro rod against the striker and give a quick but steady pull. This forces the sparks down on the tinder igniting it much quicker. From here, we can slowly add kindling and then fuel. 
     The next way I will do this is if you do not have a saw on hand. This requires you to drive your knife blade into a log and strike the ferro rod with the edge of the blade. This is if your knife has a coating on it. If not you can use the spine as long as it is 90 degrees.
 
   
 
     In the photo, you can see that I have the knife blade driven into the log with the tinder next to the striking edge. The blade can be driven in by first stabbing into the wood then tapping it with a second piece of wood. I will then lean over the knife resting my shoulder in this case on the pummel. Reaching around with the ferro rod and striking it against the edge of the knife. With a swift pull, the sparks will ignite the tinder. Once you see this starting to light, remove your knife from the log quickly. 
     I personally have had people argue with me about this method. I say if it works, it works. In addition, the edge of the blade can handle a few strikes like this without any kind of damage. My major argument to this is if you are injured get your shelter built, build your fire, and keep hydrated. The last thing you should be worried about is the edge of your knife. I think it is a little too dangerous to be using a sharp cutting instrument with one hand in the first place. It is not as if you will be carving those fine trap triggers. Worry about the basics and then worry about the knife blade when you get home.










Section 3 Chapter 12
Tinder Bundles and Transporting a Fire
 
 
     Tinder bundles are straightforward and simple. Most people overlook a few things about them. Obviously, they must be dry and not damp. This will extinguish your ember. The biggest issue I see with students is they do not work the tinder well enough to get the bundle to catch. The more a tinder bundle is worked the more surface area you are providing the ember to ignite. 
     Once the tinder is worked down to a very fine fibrous material, you can add different materials to it to insure the ember well catch. I have added finely worked mullein leaves and even plant duff like cattail, dandelion, desert broom, mule fat, and milkweed. These have a low ignition point and will allow the ember to catch the tinder bundle. These materials are also very fine with lots of surface area to be ignited.
     Once these are put into the tinder bundle and the ember has been added be gentle. This can be looked at as nurturing a child, as well it should. It may very well be your life on the line whether or not you get the fire going. Gently cradle the tinder bundle in your hand closing the tinder in around the ember. This will shelter the ember and allow you focus very light blows into the small area. As you are blowing into the tinder, you will see the life force grow. As this grows increase the amount of force, you are blowing. Slowly release your hands and allow the flame to grow. You can now see why this can be compared to a Childs nurturing. At first, the child is sheltered and protected from the world around it. As the child grows, you begin to allow them to see the world for themselves still carefully supporting them and still supplying the breath of life. 
     Once the tinder bundle is fully lit it can be placed into the fire pit. Then the nurturing process starts over with very small pieces of kindling slowly moving to larger fuel. By giving life to the fire you have in turn given yourself life. This will do many things, as mentioned before all things are possible with fire. I see it as almost a symbiotic relationship.   
 
Coal Extenders
 
     Coal extenders are exactly what they sound like. These will essentially allow your coals or ember to last longer giving you much needed time to build or rebuild a fire. In many cases as the one mentioned previously they are used in a tinder bundle to allow your ember to catch and grow, this makes it easier to blow the bundle into flames. In the case of the fire itself, these can be placed on the coals to smolder to allow less effort to rebuild your fire. 
     Some of the best coal extenders I have used for a fire is dung. Whether it is from a cow, deer, or rabbit this can be placed on the hot coals to smolder while you are checking your traps or gathering materials for other projects. Part of a cow chip or a couple of hand fulls of deer, elk, or rabbit dung will keep the coals going until you return. To rebuild the fire simply gather tinder, kindling, and fuel and blow the fire back to life. This also works at night when the risk of your fire going out is present. 
     It can be a huge pain to wake up in the morning and search for coals under the ashes. Worse is when you do not find any and have to resort to rebuilding the fire from scratch. These methods can even be incorporated into ways of transporting your fire while on the move. This can make it safe to move a fire from one area to another without the fear of catching the entire desert on fire along the way. Once the destination is reached, you can simply blow the entire bundle into a flame. There are several ways to do this from finding and packing cans found on the trial to even making something from natural materials. One of these methods is called the Apache Cigar.
     I have in the past use different funguses as coal extenders. I personally do not study funguses. They can be easily misidentified and you can be poisoned. They also do not have much if any nutritional value. They are mostly just simple fillers. I also live in a desert, in most areas I frequent it is way to dry to support most fungus growth. With that being said, I look for texture and consistency for which fungus I will use for this method. I first look on the tree trunks whether they are dead fallen, dead standing, or even alive. I will then touch the fungus; if it is hard, I will cut a very small section to see if it is "woody" or even spongy. Most fungus I find is dry, woody, and or spongy. If it is still moist, it will not work for this method. Once a piece of tree fungus is selected, I will place it on the hot coals. This will in turn smolder keeping the coals burning much longer. 
 
Apache Cigar
 
     The Apache cigar is a tool I use to transport fire from one location to another. This is a good idea so you do not have to build a scratch fire. This is a piece of hollow wood usually a dead and dry agave stalk. This will then be split and the inner pith removed. I will then gather dry material like grasses, plant fluff, or inner bark from the cotton wood tree. This is then placed in to the empty halves then tied together with natural cord or string of some kind. I will then feel to see how compact the inner material is by pressing on it from one of the open ends. If it is not tightly packed it will not hold the ember for very long and possibly burn through the bottom or burn up too much material. If more is needed, I will shove it in to pack it in nice and tight with a stick.
     To light the Apache cigar remove a coal from your fire and place it on top of one of the open ends. Simply blow on it to get the material inside to catch. This material will start to smolder instead of burn. While carrying the fire bundle stop and check it periodically, it can go out. If it is starting to go out simply blow into the open end until it flames up. This makes it very easy to transport a fire. With little maintenance, you can cover several miles on one fire bundle. When ready to use get your fire area ready and gather tinder, kindling, and fuel. Blow on the Apache cigar till it flames up and build your fire. This is one of the methods I believe the prehistoric Indians of the southwest used to transport fire from one camp to the other. 
     Another way of transporting a fire is to utilize found materials like cans and other suitable materials. These can be stuffed with dry tinder and carried with wire or carefully securing with cord or lashing to a stick. This can then be carried over your shoulder. Care must be taken while on the move to ensure that no embers are being dropped along the way. You must also stop periodically to blow the coal back into a usable ember that will smolder for the trip ahead. If the tinder is burning away, you can easily add more as needed. Be careful not to touch the container it is extremely hot and cause severe burns. Take extra care to check your lashings they can also burn or melt depending on the material used. If you are lucky, enough to find wire or have snare wire on hand this is strongly suggested. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 3 Chapter 13
Methods of Safely Keeping a Fire
 
 
     In this section, I will cover some of my favorite ways of what I like to refer to as housing a fire. This is the actual place the fire will be built on or in. I find this important to cover because I see a lot of great writing about how to start a fire but very little on where to place it. Some of the techniques in this section are straightforward. In the desert, we are faced with very dry conditions. This can make building and keeping a fire very dangerous. With this in mind, we can start out by understanding that the fires I build are not what my Native American friends growing up call a white man's fire. A white man's fire is noted as a term for a fire that is too big, too bright, too hot, and excessively much fuel goes into maintaining the fire. These are simple, small, and are plenty for cooking, boiling water, giving off light, and keeping you warm. These also work great because in many areas of the desert suitable fuel can be scarce. In the upper woodlands, there can be plenty but in some of the lower Sonoran I have been in places where you better conserve. 
     I remember my younger days of camping and learning survival skills some people were quick to throw big logs on a fire in a huge fire ring. I am even guilty of doing this myself. Learning a new way since I have been in the desert especially has really helped conserve on resources. I remember one outing we were down by Gila Bend on a minimalist camping trip. The only thing around for miles was sparse desert scrub brush. The funny thing is a lot of it is considered a hard wood. Gathering enough is a little tricky. The people I was with kept wanting to put the entire branch on the fire to keep it going. I had a small depression dug into the ground with a small warming and cooking fire in the bottom. I had taken the branches, broke them all into smaller 7 to 8 inch sections, and stacked them neatly into a pile. From here, I would feed three or maybe four at a time into the fire. While this was putting off plenty of heat, we cooked a full meal as well as hot chocolate; they had this overwhelming urge to build up the fire.
     Some of my favorite fire lays is to dig a hole. This is a very good way to build a fire. Once you are finished simply bury the coals, it will put itself out. I will demonstrate the Dakota fire hole as well as what I simply call the hole. I will also cover different types of fire lays that I use depending on conditions to get a fire going. 
 









The Dakota Fire Hole
 
    This method is used by the armed forces as a survival and evasion tool. The Dakota hole is a low profiled approach to fire building. It is a hole in the ground and an additional ventilation hole joining into it. It gives off little smoke when in use and is difficult to see from the air or the ground. The Dakota hole is also a safer way to have a fire when the area is dry and vulnerable to brush or forest fires because it throws very few embers.
    To build a Dakota fire hole in dry climates clear the area well away from the fire pit. This will keep any possible embers from landing and causing a forest fire. You must also be observant of roots while digging the hole. Roots underground especially pine roots are very high in flammable resins. They can in fact smolder underground for long periods. This can cause a problem weeks or even months later. The fire can emerge hundreds or thousands of yards away causing an inferno. This is devastating to not only the wildlife but also we also pay for it as campers and outdoorsman with stricter penalties in designated campsites and other camping areas. 
     Use your head with your fires and you will not have a problem. You will notice that in my signaling chapter of this book I will not discuss the use of a signal fire. This is because of the extreme danger of wild fires in the southwest. There are well-documented reports of lost hikers panicking and starting a signal fire to signal for help. They ended up with a swift rescue all right, along with a stiff fine and even jail time. The fine consisted of paying the entire operation to fight the blaze. One in particular was the infamous Rodeo Chediski fire. This lost hiker set a signal fire and got a lot more than they bargained for. So keep that in mind when it comes to fires. They can get out of control in a hurry. 
 
    
 
     Dig your first hole 1 foot by 1 foot. Place your foot at the edge of the hole on the windward side and mark the ground at the tip of your foot. The ground in this spot was a mix of clay and loam. The digging has to be a little difficult at times. If you do not have a digging implement, you can make one. By making a digging stick, you can effectively break up the ground very rapidly and remove the dirt with your hands. I have in the past made what I like to call digging pegs. These can be up to 2 inches thick and 10 to 12 inches long with wedged tips. I will use these while in tight spots or in areas that I need a little extra brute force to break up the soil. These can be made up and then hit on one end with a lager rock to drive them in and with a shove to one side or the other it will effectively break up the dirt.
 
  
 
     The second hole is dug on the windward side to aid with ventilation. As the wind blows, it will force oxygen into the hole keeping the fire going. If there is no wind the fire is able to draw oxygen from the vent hole.
     The vent hole is dug diagonally to the fire pit. It should meet the bottom of the fire pit and have a hole at least large enough to fit your hand through to the vent hole. The roots were removed after the photo was taken. Take special care to move all root systems away from the heat source. To remove the roots from the ignition source use a stick with a sharpened point and work along the edges of the root. Once you have worked, 10 to 12 inches back then pull on the root and it will snap free (in most cases). This will work on smaller roots without having to dig up the Dakota hole. To fill in your rounded hole simply stuff rocks inside to prevent flame and coals from coming in contact with the root. You can then plug the hole with dirt. 
     In some cases, you may need to actually trench the 10 to 12 inches with a digging stick to remove the root. This can also be done with an entrenching tool or even a digging stick. Once you get to the root simply cut it off and back fill your hole. This will keep the forest safe from forest fires.  
 
  
 
     I find the Dakota fire hole to be very user friendly. For this demonstration, I simply lit the fire, laid a long stick on the ground and hung my Billycan inside the pit to boil water. I was amazed at how fast the water came to a boil. This is because as the fire burns it heats the ground inside and directs all the heat straight up to the pot. When finished with the fire it is easy to put out and move on. Simply fill in the two holes with dirt and you are good to go. 
The Hole
 
  
 
     This is my favorite hands down. With the hole all I have to do is clear off safe zone around fire to be built and simply dig a depression with a digging stick, digging peg, or even a canteen cup if I have to. Once I get the fire going the ashes will fill the bottom. This I see as no issue. I use ashes in several different ways. This simply gives me another resource to be used. In the photo above, you can see the fire is a little large. Looking at the ground around the pit, you can see it is a little damp. I will heat the inside of the pit to the point that all the moisture will essentially cook off. If the ground is wet or damp I will make a platform to build the actual fire on so the steam will not extinguish the flames at the critical point of trying to get the flames hot enough. 
     On several occasions, I have made a grill of green sticks and cooked anything from deer to chicken. I have also placed a full pot on this same cooking grill to make teas and soups. Another good idea that can be used in conjunction with this fire hole is making a tri pod and suspending the pot over the fire. This little hole in the ground can prove to be very versatile and the fire can be put out very easily by covering, tamping, and walk away.  I personally will use this method in the warmer times of year when there is little wind. When used in front of your shelter with an added fire reflector it will really do the trick to fight off those early autumn chills.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 3 Chapter 14
Fire Lays
 
 
     Fire lays are very important in many cases to get the fire going. These are used as a method of protecting an ember or a small flame at the same time providing the necessary air, tinder, kindling, and fuel for the fire to grow. Personally, I find that having the right fire lay can mean the difference between a fire and no fire. Sometimes these can even be used to dry damp kindling allowing enough time for the fire to catch. There are four fire lays I use on a regular basis to get my fire going. These are the lean too, the tepee, the council, and the platform. These are used for a variety of conditions and can give that extra helping hand to get your fire going. Your fire lay can depend greatly on the condition in which is it used. For example, the lean too can be used to protect the fire from the breeze or the wind gusts. The platform can be used to protect the fire from wet or damp ground. Each one is useful and will provide the all-important airflow for a strong fire. These are widely used throughout the world and are taught by the Boy Scouts. This is where I learned them as a kid growing up while on camping trips with the local scout troop. 
 
Lean Too
 
  
 
     The lean too fire is what it sounds like although this may be a bit different that what you are used to being called a lean too fire lay. I prefer to use this method if there is a little wind that would otherwise blow out the fire at the crucial point. From the above photo, you can see that all my tinder and kindling is meticulously laid out. Notice how the kindling is leaning on a larger stick. This will act as a windbreak on the windward side of the fire. While lighting the fire in wind, this really helps to protect it and get it going. I can then place the fuel on as called for to build it into a strong fire. As the fire burns, the larger piece of fuel will burn as well. 
     In the southwest, while the seasons are changing we can get a lot of wind. Normally I do not like to use an open fire during these times and will revert to the Dakota Fire hole or other method. If this fire lay is used it will usually be behind a wind block or other protected area. This keeps the embers from spreading and causing a secondary fire.
 
The Tepee
 
  
 
     The tepee fire lay is an old classic but one of the best I find worth mentioning. Since I do not like big fire this one allows me to put all the tinder, kindling, and fuel that I will need for a cooking fire. If made properly the design of this fire lay allows for optimal airflow. If I choose to keep the fire as a warming fire or for tool making, I can keep adding fuel as needed. 
     This is actually the very first fire lay I leaned as a kid. On scout camping trips this was the preferable fire lay. Even as a kid and into my teens we would take off for days and this would be the method we used most. For some reason this seemed to almost come naturally. With all the campfires, I can remember it seems almost instinctive for some people to use this type of set up.  
Council Fire Lay
 
  
 
     This fire lay is a very good one to know. Also known as, the log cabin fire lay allows for optimal air circulation while the fire is building. This set up can also be built to any size and can be set up easily as a signal fire. During some classes we will split aspen, lay it in log cabin style, sit, and chat over the open fire. This fire lay makes a larger bright fire, which is where it gets its name. 
     Looking at the photo you can see the formation of the sticks, larger sticks on the bottom and smaller ones on top. Normally while building a fire this is done opposite to this. The reason this works so well here is that the framework will hold the smaller sticks above the fire. This takes advantage of the fires natural tendency to travel up. If you have ever noticed how a match burns, it will burn faster if the flame is allowed to travel up the matchstick. If the flame is made to travel down the matchstick, it moves much slower. The same is true for forest fires. They travel up hills and mountains much faster than down. 
 
Wet or Damp Ground
 
  
 
     This fire lay is really common sense. We know that moisture and fires do not really go well together. While lighting a fire on wet of damp ground build a platform for the fire. This will keep the fire from being put out at the crucial moment of ignition. On wet ground as it heats up it will produce steam. The steam produced is just as bad as dousing your fire with a bucket of water. In the photo, you can see how this fire lay is set up. I chose to use green sticks to the base. This will prevent them from burning away too quickly. This will also allow the fire to build and become a strong enough and hot enough that the steam created from under and around the platform will not affect it.
 
Conclusion for Chapter 3
 
     I hope you enjoyed this section on fire. There will be more to come in the future. The next sections will be on water, navigation and signaling, trapping and hunting, and improvising your tool kit. My experiences throughout my life have allowed me the ability to spend a lot of time in the wilderness. This experience has also given me the knowledge of how to properly make and maintain a fire. While learning these methods I was not in a survival situation I was taught while learning an appreciation for the wilderness around me. These fire skills can and will cross over to a survival situation. While not all are practical for all survival situations, they can and do work. It is up to you to understand the conditions that dictate which method to use and how to execute the technique. I as the author hold no responsibility for any misuse or misrepresentation of the information in this book series. It is up to you the reader to exercise common sense at all times. I did not write this section for pyromaniacs or arsonists. This book was written for the enjoyment of the desert or whatever wilderness you prefer to enjoy. It is also written to give you the tools needed to properly start and maintain a fire. 
     As a kid, I was blessed with the opportunity to be able to run freely in the wilderness that surrounded the 18 acres that I grew up on. There was so much open woodland for a child of 6 to 12 to explore. Even after we moved away from that property, we held on to it. My friends were all likeminded and we would take to the woods every weekend and school break. On many occasions, we would return to the property that we moved away from to fish, hunt, and camp. I can remember catching perch, crappie, and cooking them right out of the creek. I remember tracking a raccoon to its den in the middle of the day and having it for dinner that night. Those were the best years of my life. Had I not been able to be free I would not have been able to share my knowledge with you. I think deep down my parents giving me this freedom maybe they knew that someday I would be able to share it. 
    Today we are in some very remarkable times. I am 35 years old at the time I am finishing this book and since I was a kid growing up so many things have changed the way we learn and share our ideas. We did not have the internet let alone digital cameras while I was a kid. Not everything could be documented and shared as it is today. Unfortunately, so many opportunities were lost at that time mainly because cameras and home computers were not nearly as popular as they are today or nonexistent all together. The friends I had growing up are able to share the experiences we had together and I feel my life is much better for it today. Those years were the reason for the knowledge I love to share today.
     Today with the popularity of YouTube and social networking sites like Facebook I can openly share the knowledge freely. At the time of writing this, I have 187 videos on the subject of survival and survival related gear. It has taken me the better part of 7 years to learn how to present those skills. It is a big learning process but it is fun and rewarding in ways that money cannot measure. It gives me the ability to put my personal touch on a certain skill or approach it in such a way makes it unique to me. It has taken a lot of time and dedication to develop the video and photography skills that make this possible. 
     Along the way, I have met many great people, so many in fact that I cannot name all of them. Some I have had the pleasure of working with on various projects. Most believed enough in me to give me my own brand of knives. Being able to network with people like this makes it possible to expand my knowledge on a variety of subjects. They are such great people I do not see them as colleagues or friends, I see them as family.  
     The subject of fire played a big role in my time growing up. Without it, I am sure the experience would not have been the same. I spent my childhood learning these skills and so far, I have spent my adult life refining those skills. To this day every chance I get I am out in the desert refining my survival and bushcraft skills. I do not have a 9 to 5 job so this gives me the chance to really expand and further my endeavors. I decided a long time ago that I wanted to do what makes me happy and what gives my life fulfillment. I can truly say I have found it in wilderness skills, writing, photography, video editing, and knife design.          










Section 4 Chapter 1
Water
 
 
     Whether it is hot or cold there is a severe danger of exposure and many different ways of losing your body's water. It is important to learn how to conserve water and not to ration it. Always drink enough to replace what your body looses and drink even when you do not feel thirsty. If you do not have water do not eat. Eating and digestion use up precious body fluids to break down the food you eat. Watch the color of your urine and how frequently you urinate. This is the best way to keep track of your level of dehydration. If properly hydrated your pee should be clear with no color at all. Some medications and vitamins will change the color of your urine, especially the B vitamins. Obviously the more you drink the more you will pee, It is a good indicator but you should watch both of these at the same time. Do not use thirst as a way to monitor dehydration this is not a good indicator. By the time thirst is triggered you have already lost 1 percent of your body's water. Stay away from diuretics. These contain caffeine or alcohol; they will speed the loss of water from your body. There are also many sport drinks on the market, which contain sodium, sugars and, carbohydrates, although these are important for electrolyte replacement, they are foodstuffs. This means that your body has to break down and digest these using your body's water to do so, this means it takes longer to reach your large intestine were rehydration can occur. 
      Alcohol, caffeine, as well as nicotine are also known as vasodilators. This means they will dilate or open the blood vessels of the extremities. Sounds like not too big a deal right? Well quite the contrary, imagine being in the cold. Your body's natural defense is to constrict these blood vessels to protect the body's core temperature. What happens is the blood in the extremities is cooled because the arms and legs are exposed to the elements (more so than your core). They are also not as protected as the core, which protects the heart and other internal organs. For this reason, the blood vessels will react by constricting to reduce the flow of cool blood back to the heart. When using alcohol, caffeine, or even nicotine, these will open the vessels allowing cooled blood to reach the heart. These also have an effect on your heart rate, which can speed the problem.
     What happens in warmer weather, the blood vessels will open up. This allows the blood to be cooled by the open air as well as sweat. Sweat evaporates in the open air making a natural evaporative cooler for the body. The body thermo regulates this one way. Alcohol, caffeine, and nicotine have an adverse affect on the blood vessels, which intern cause the bodies cooling, and warming mechanisms to work much harder. In short, your body must work harder to regulate its core temperature.   
Dehydration and Hydration
 
1% Body fluid loss - Thirst is triggered 
 
5% body fluid loss - Thirst, irritability, nausea, and weakness 
10% body fluid loss - Dizziness, headache, inability to walk, and tingling in the extremities
 
15% body fluid loss - Dim vision, urination is painful, swollen tongue, deafness, and skin becomes numb 
 
Greater than 15% is fatal. 
 
     By reading, the above section you can see the importance that water truly plays in sustaining life, rehydrating your body, controlling and regulating the core body temperature, and ridding the body of waste material. In hot climates, water takes priority over shelter and fire. In cold climates, water is no less important. Our body still losses fluid at the same rate and through the same methods as in warmer climates. In the following section, I will cover finding water, filtering and purifying water, supplementing your water supply, a few methods for filling a water container when little water is flowing, and how to locate water. 
 
Hydration Kit
 
     If you can be prepared for a survival situation putting together a hydration kit would be one of the most beneficial tool in your arsenal. This kit should focus on hydration and electrolyte replacement. This kit should also have the necessary tools to obtain and disinfect water, control thirst, and a means of carrying more water once a supply is found. You should also have more than one way to do all these things. 
     Most components of this kit are small and light weight. They can be packed in a larger pack or placed in the large cargo pockets of your BDUs. When hiking the Southwest deserts most of your weight should be water. Beyond that you should have ways of procuring and treating any found water while in the field. I cannot stress the importance of going prepared while in the desert. Water is precious, more so than gold when you are on the verge of death by dehydration. By carrying extra water not only on you while in the desert, but in your car while traveling the interstates and highways of the desert you can greatly increase your chances should a problem arise. Some highways run out to the middle of nowhere and stretch for miles before the next town. A break down or even a traffic jam on Arizona's interstates can be fatal if you do not have water with you. 
Making an oral re-hydration solution
 
     What are electrolytes? These are known chemically as a substance becomes an ion in a solution. Sodium and potassium are the two most important electrolytes that must be replaced and can be rapidly depleted. These are able to conduct electricity and are important in the proper function of our cells and organs. These are important because they allow the electrical impulses to be easily passed between cell membranes and help the flow of electricity across muscles and other organs. As we sweat we lose these valuable electrolytes and they must be replaced. This loss can be accelerated by heavy activity in hot climates or through diarrhea and vomiting. Our kidneys help to keep these in balance and constant regardless of changes in our body. Replacing electrolytes is extremely important anywhere in the world regardless of the situation or climate. 
Let us look deeper into what an electrolyte is and what the imbalances are
 
Sodium- This is a positive ion in the fluid surrounding cells. When chloride is added, we get table salt. Sodium regulates the amount of fluid that is in the body acts as a conductor to allow the signals from the brain, organs, and cells in the body to communicate. As sodium levels change to either, too high or too low this will interfere with these signals. This means it affects the brains ability to communicate with the muscles and other organs. Too much sodium or too little can be fatal.
     Too much sodium in the body in relation to water is called hypernatremia. This condition can be fatal if not dealt with. This will affect the kidneys, brain, and thirst response. When talking acute hypernatremia this is an onset that is not associated with chronic hypernatremia found in some people with serious health issues. This section is used when dealing with this emergency should it arise in a survival situation. This can be quickly treated with rest and by administering fresh clean water. DO NOT GIVE GATORADE OR ANY KIND OF SPORTS DRINKS! At this time the patient will not feel thirsty. It is important to force fluids. Once the water has worked its magic the brain cells will begin to restore their water content and begin firing properly. 
    Too little sodium in the body is called hyponatremia. In a survival situation, this is common. I have experienced this with cramps in my extremities and abdomen. This will also be a symptom of a lack of potassium, which we will talk about in the next section. Headache and nausea are usually the first signs of this imbalance. These could also mean more serious heat illnesses as well so rest and keeping cool are very important during treatment. As the body looses sodium, the balance of water to salt becomes off kilter. There is essentially too much water in relation to sodium in the body. This is when electrolyte replacement can begin. By restricting, the amount of water taken in and increasing the amount of sodium this problem can be resolved. Salt tablets are a great way to do this. I have in fact carried bouillon cubes to aid in electrolyte replacement. Again, this is dealing with a survival situation in a healthy individual. If this problem is not addressed renal failure, seizures due to brain swelling, coma, and then death will follow. Do not ignore what your body is trying to tell you. 
 
  Potassium- Potassium is also a positive ion, which helps the nerve impulses in the body. More importantly, these help primarily with the heartbeat and muscle control. This is also important for cell function. Potassium is usually expelled from the body by the kidneys. 
     Too high of potassium is known as hyperkalemia. At times, there could be no signs or symptoms of hyperkalemia. Other times one could experience irregular heartbeat, fatigue, weakness, strange sensations like numbness and tingling, nausea, vomiting, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing, or possible paralysis. Among some of the causes of this condition can be crush injuries, burns, or trauma. These are commonly encountered in a survival situation. 
     Reducing the amount of potassium in the body can be done in the field in a few ways. The object is to make the body expel the unneeded potassium through the urine. In this case, diuretics will aid in reducing the amount of built up potassium in the body. In early spring, you can make a tea out of dandelion root to use as a diuretic. Small tea and coffee packets can be mixed with water and drunk. The caffeine will act as the diuretic to aid the passing of built up potassium. Sodium bicarbonate or baking soda will aid in the shift from blood to cells.       
     Too low of potassium is known as hypokalemia. This is caused by diuretics, vomiting, diarrhea, extreme sweating, and overexertion. There are many causes of this condition, as a survival situation goes injury, dehydration, and heat play a huge factor in this. You may experience general weakness, noticeable muscle weakness, pain and muscle cramping, irregular heartbeat and arrhythmias. 
     Treatment can be done in the field if it is caused by overexertion. If this is a chronic health problem or caused by a severe injury seek medical attention immediately. Potassium supplements can be carried with you in your pack and used only if you can recognize when they are needed. In addition, baking soda will aid in leveling out the bodies potassium levels. 
 
  Chloride- This is a negatively charged ion or anion. As said before when sodium is added to chloride you get table salt. Chloride is the anion of the two compounds. Chloride plays a huge role in aiding the maintenance of the balance of body fluids. Increases or decreases in this substance can have fatal ramifications. This is directly tied to the sodium in the body. If the sodium in the blood increases or decreases so does the chloride and bicarbonate. Chloride controls the amount osmotic pressure, the amount of water between fluid comparents, acid base stability and balance, and muscle movement and activity.           
     Increased amounts of chloride in the body are called hyperchloremia. This can cause such symptoms as muscle twitching, spasms, tremors, and weak shallow breathing. This can be treated by administering saline solutions or salty water. This will aid in the repair of the volume of chloride that has been lost. If caught early on the addition of a potassium supplement will help as well. Hyperchloremia can also cause an acid imbalance in the body. By adding bicarbonate to the saline solution will help to restore an acid base balance. Too much bicarbonate can actually decrease potassium levels in the blood. 
     Chloride levels that are too low are called hypochloremia. This causes symptoms like heavy rapid breathing, confusion, severe weakness, and possible coma. This can be brought on by a number of things. Diuretics, excessive sweating, and diarrhea are the most common in a wilderness survival situation.  If caught early this can be treated with saline water. If the victim is in shock then more aggressive saline treatment is advised. 
 
  Bicarbonate- is the body's buffer agent to maintain normal acid levels in the blood and body fluids. When this is increased or depleted, it will throw off the body's ability to adjust these levels.  Later I will go over a recipe on a homemade oral electrolyte replacement therapy. This will replace electrolytes and restore a healthy balance of these curtail elements. Keep in mind this is meant to replace electrolytes, not to lower abnormally high counts of these elements. 
     Oral re-hydration solution- A recipe I use while I am out in the field is very simple and the ingredients should be carried with you in your hydration kit at all times. There are two different types of this solution. One is ORT or oral rehydration therapy. There is then ORS or oral rehydration solution.
ORT- or oral rehydration therapy can be made with a few simple ingredients. 
1. One qt. of clean disinfected water
2. One teaspoon of salt
3. Ten teaspoons of sugar, this equals 3 1/3 tablespoons.
4. A small amount of sugar free drink mix. This is optional but makes the mix taste a little better.
5. 1/3 teaspoon of baking soda 
 
ORS or oral rehydration solution. 
1. One quart of water
2. One teaspoon of salt
3. Eight teaspoons of sugar
4. A small amount of sugar free drink mix
 
     On occasion I will change things up a bit and use an MRE drink mix in place of the sugar free drink mix. In this case, I will reduce the amount of sugar by 4 tablespoons. This solution is used to replace electrolytes in the field. It has saved many lives. 
     This is extremely useful when all you have been drinking is plain water. Plain water can and will leave you feeling thirsty. This is simply because even thought you are hydrating you are not replacing valuable electrolytes. The water simply aids in washing them away. By drinking the ORT or the ORS you can stay on top of the electrolyte game and keep these elements balanced out to prevent illness and incapacitation. This can also be used in the event of diarrhea or vomiting. 
     In most cases I will simply pop a piece of hard candy in my mouth after having only drank plain water to battle the thirsty feeling I get. It works well and makes the whole experience that much more enjoyable. There are several types of electrolyte replacement drinks out there. One of the problems that I see with these sports drinks is they are used in the place of water. This is not what they are meant for. These are meant to be used after heavy activity where electrolytes have been depleted through sweating. 
     I will on occasion carry a few different types of these. They are handy and not a bad item to have on hand. They can be found in pre-measured packets that make mixing in your water bottle very easily. These contain sugars and sweeteners. These will in turn promote bacterial growth in your bottles. I will use chemical treatment of my water or I will boil it to kill the bacteria. I will also on occasion clean my canteens and water bottles with bleach. I will add  of a canteen of bleach and let it sit for one to four hours shaking and rotating the bottle occasionally. I will then rinse it out thoroughly and let it sit open till dry. I started doing this because I drank from a canteen as a teenager that I allowed to sit for a week or so. I became very sick, I began vomiting and it gave me severe diarrhea. This was a hard lesson to learn. I was very thankful it happened at home instead of in the field. 
 
Keeping yourself and your water cool
 
     This is a big issue faced in the desert or anywhere for that matter. It is important to have cool drinking water while in the field and in a survival situation. This will help maintain or even lower your core body temperature. Warm or hot water will only raise your core temperature; this will heat you up from the inside. 
     I have a few ways I manage to keep my water cool or cool it once it warmed up. The first way I will explain is by burying the bottle in the shade with the top sticking out of the ground. I started doing this one day as a kid after noticing the dog in the yard. I noticed he would dig hole in the yard underneath one of the trees in the front yard. I also noticed that throughout the day he would move and eventually dig all the way around the tree.  He would do this because the soil below the surface was several degrees cooler than the surface temperature. He would dig all the way around the tree so he could take advantage of the shade as the sun moved across the sky. Smart I think. I began using the phrase make like a dog and dig. There are several ways of actually keeping cool while in the desert. One I will employ is by wearing a long sleeve shirt. This will in fact trap moisture by holding in and essentially absorbing your sweat. This will then cool your body through evaporative cooling. Seems redundant but if you only have a short sleeve shirt you will actually be a lot hotter as well as loose moisture that much quicker. Any exposed flesh will allow the sweat to evaporate too rapidly. This also makes you venerable to sun burn. This will also interfere with your body's effectiveness in thermoregulation.  I will also keep my head covered with a wide brimmed hat, bandanna, or a military neckerchief. In the photo I removed my long sleeve shirt while in the shade.
 
  
 
     After I buried my water bottle in the cool dirt under a shade tree the water will cool by several degrees. This made it tolerable and comfortable to drink. I would also remove the surface layer of dirt from under the tree and follow the shade around. I was able to stay much cooler than just sitting on top of the ground. By carrying a bandanna, neckerchief, or spare shirt you can affectively cool your water down. Wet a piece of cloth and wrap it around the bottle and hang it in the shade this will create an evaporative cooler effect as the water evaporates and the breeze blows. This will cool your water bottle by several degrees. Just by simply cooling your water you are not only hydrating, you are also lowering your core body temperature. I have used these methods as well to cool my stainless steel water bottle. Metal water bottles can be heated just from the heat of the ground bouncing up at you all day. When you are already hot and dehydrated there is nothing like the feeling of cool water.
     The wet cloth method mentioned earlier works great for the body as well. Placing the bandanna or the like under your hat and allowing it to hang over your shoulders and ears will take advantage of this same evaporative cooler effect. If water cannot be spared I have used pulverized cactus pulp. I simply remove the spines, and mash the cactus in the fabric. I will then work up the slimy viscous material out of the cactus and allow it to soak into the fabric. This will have the same effect on cooling the body. There is water in the cactus but not really enough to hydrate you in an emergency. Utilize them in the above stated manner or read on about using them in aiding to supplement your water supply.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 4 Chapter 2
Microorganisms and Water Treatment
 
 
     What is a microorganism? These living organisms like bacteria, viruses, amoeba, and protozoa cannot be seen with the naked eye. There are several reasons these are found in surface water. Animals, people, sometimes decaying matter, and some are naturally found in water. They only become dangerous when they reproduce in the body causing serious illness and sometimes-even death. All wild water has microorganisms in it, they are measured in PPM or parts per million. Depending on the type of organism, low levels can be safe and just pass through the body without issue. Others can range a higher PPM and be deadly. All water must be purified, sterilized, or disinfected in order to remove these little nasties. So what are they and what do they do?
 
     Coliform Bacteria- This is not just one strain of bacteria but also several. E. coli is a good example of this type of bacteria. Most strains of Coliform Bacteria are relatively harmless. They are present in decaying plant matter and soil that are washed down from wooded areas. It can also be found in the digestive tracks of mammals. E. coli is the most dangerous and most commonly known of this type of bacteria. Effective means of disinfection are boiling, chemical treatment, filtering with a good filter, and UV treatment. I will cover this later in this book.
 
    Giardia Lamblia- These are parasitic flagellated protozoa. These are very common in US waterways. They have two stages in their life cycle. The first is cysts, which are ingested and introduced into the stomach. From this point, the organism can reproduce rapidly and move into the large intestine where it will attach itself to the intestinal wall. At this point, it will encyst once again and will be released into the environment. 
     Some people can have a resistance to these protozoa. These people have been exposed to it over very long periods. The symptoms of Giardiasis is straightforward, these are diarrhea, cramps, nausea, weight loss, and gastrointestinal complaints. On the home front, Giardia is rarely fatal. In a wilderness, survival situation the problem lies in dehydration from the diarrhea. This must be controlled. Usual onset of symptoms will usually appear from 4 days to a week after exposure. I will cover some ways of taking care of the issue in the field later in this book. I will also repeat myself a few times in later installments. It is a serious issue and I feel it is warranted to sound like a broken record. Effective means of disinfection are boiling, chemical treatment, filtering with a good filter, and UV treatment.
 
   Cryptosporidium- Or Cryptosporidium parvum is a protozoan parasite spread through drinking water by occysts. These like the above mentioned microorganisms are transmitted into drinking water by the introduction of fecal matter. Once contracted these occysts break up and release spores. These spores will attach themselves to the inside walls of the gastrointestinal tract. Symptoms will occur 2 to 10 days after infection. The symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal cramping, headache, low fever, nausea, and vomiting. There is no known treatment other than treating symptoms. The good news is your body will fight the infection on its own usually after a week or two of misery.  This can prove fatal for those with compromised immune systems. Removing this from your water is harder than the other mentioned microorganisms. These must be filtered with a good filter or boiled. Iodine has no effect on cryptosporidium, although chlorination will work. 
 
  Hepatitis A- This is an enteric virus transmitted to drinking water via fecal matter from an infected host. In a very mild case rest for a week or two may be all that is needed. Others can suffer severely and even die from this virus from severe liver damage. Symptoms include an inflamed liver, jaundice, weakness, fever, anorexia, and lassitude. Among the best ways of removing this virus is chlorination, flocculation, boiling, and filtering, 
     There are so many other microorganisms, too many to cover in this chapter alone. I would need a separate book on just this subject. I wanted to talk about the most common forms of waterborne pathogens, symptoms, and best ways of getting rid of them. As you read you notice that the same methods did not always seem to work in conjunction with one another. Through personal experience I have learned that with a good filter or simply by boiling your water you can inactivate or kill most if not all microorganisms.  
Making Water Potable
 
     Anytime surface water is found whether it be lake, pond, river, creek, or a stagnate pool it should be considered questionable and boiled, chemically treated or filtered. Rule of thumb for boiling water is to bring it to a boil. The saying goes "big bubbles no trouble". Water is safe to drink and sterilized after the water is brought to a rolling boil. When chemically treating water you should carefully read the instructions on the container. If you acquire water from a stagnate pool be careful it may be poison due to arsenic and strychnine that has been leeched out of the rocks, this is noticeable by the remains of dead animals that would be in the area around the pool. There will also be absents of green vegetation in the area. Ice can be collected and melted. Remember, just because it is frozen does not mean it is safe. Viruses, bacteria, amoeba, and cysts can remain dormant in freezing temperatures until they meet the warmth of your body. Disinfect, Purify, Sterilize all water! 
 
  Disinfecting: This is the chemical method of water "purification". Not necessarily purification but it is the killing of pathogens in your drinking water. Note: Some methods of water "Disinfection" are not effective against all forms of pathogens such as Cryptosporidium. Iodine for example is ineffective against this pathogen. Chlorine whether it is in liquid or tablet form requires a 4 hour contact time to kill Cryptosporidium. 
 
  Purification:  Clearing and disinfecting your drinking water. Water is then ran through a filter to clear it of discoloration and sediment then treated by chemical methods or some other method.
 
  Pasteurization: This is when water is heated to 65 degrees Celsius or 149 degrees Fahrenheit for an extended period. This will kill microorganisms making the water safe to drink. This will not however render brackish or chemically contaminated water safe to drink.  
 
  Sterilizing: Removing all pathogens, viruses, bacteria, cysts, discoloration, and sediment from your water. It is then boiled. This makes it suitable for use in first aid.  
Iodine
 
     Iodine comes in three forms for disinfecting water, tablets, crystals, or a liquid in either a squeeze bottle or dropper. For tablets, add 1 tablet per quart of water. Fill the container, put in 1 tablet, replace cap and shake let it stand for five minutes. Then loosen the cap, turn the canteen upside down to allow the water to treat the treads. Tighten the cap and let stand for thirty minutes. The treads are flushed to kill any pathogens that have come into contact with the threads; this can also be done after disinfection. This is done with all chemical disinfecting methods. Double the dose if the water is cloudy. Liquid iodine requires five drops per quart and this should be doubled if the water is cloudy. Iodine crystals are essentially, what they sound like they are crystals of iodine. These are placed inside a small squeeze bottle and water is added to dissolve the crystals. Note: If the crystals do not all dissolve that is not a problem. The dose is the same as liquid iodine. Note on iodine: If you open the bottle, it will go bad within a few weeks. Replace any type of iodine regularly. Check tablets regularly, they should be a gray color if they are still good.
Chlorine
 
     When using liquid chlorine bleach make sure that it is not scented with any perfumes or additives. The standard dose for liquid chlorine is 2 to 3 drops per quart. If the water is cloudy double the dose. The military uses a chlorine dioxide tablet called "Chlor Floc" these come in a thirty-tablet package and will even remove sediment from your drinking water. Chlor-Floc contains a combination of flocculation and coagulation agents, which promote rapid formation of sediment in treated water (sediment is easily removed by straining the water through a cloth). After clarification of the water the chlorine released by the active ingredients is then free to kill Guardia, lambia, cysts, bacteria, viruses, and other harmful microorganisms, which are not removed with the sediment. 30 tablets will treat thirty quarts. In cold weather let the chlorine tablets treat the water for up to four hours. Cold water can decrease and slow down the disinfecting properties of the chlorine.                
Potassium Permanganate
 
     Potassium Permanganate is not only used as a signal, fire, and antiseptic. It can also be used as a water disinfection method. All water disinfection chemicals can be dangerous if you are not paying attention to the amount you are using. To use this method place three to four individual crystals into a quart of water. Allow them to dissolve then shake to mix the solution. After thirty minutes of allowing the chemical run the treatment time, you are ready to hydrate. Potassium permanganate can be found at any pool supply store, some hardware stores, and online. It is inexpensive, legal, and a little bit goes a long way. Do not use this method to purify your water all the time. This is best for use during a survival situation. Liver and kidney damage can occur if used in large amounts or over time.
 
A few natural ways of water disinfection and treatment of waterborne pathogens
 
     This method you should use extreme caution and know 100% what plant you are looking at. The use of plants to purify water is a controversial subject much like anything not created by science. I will be talking about four plants in this section. Remember if you use too much or are sensitive to the naturally occurring chemicals in these plants I am not held responsible. It is up to you to use your own God given judgment when using these methods. 
     The first two plants I will cover contain a chemical called berberine. This quaternary ammonium salt will treat a wide variety of ailments. This is affective against amoebae, bacteria, fungus, and protozoa. Many antibiotic resistant bacteria have been successfully destroyed using berberine in labs. This alkaloid does have its drawbacks; overdose can range from severe intestinal problems, liver and kidney damage, or even death. Just because it is a plant based compound does not mean it is any less dangerous than any OTC or prescription medicine. Care must be taken when using any form of medicinal plant. 
     Golden Seal or Hydrastis Canadensis can be found as a dietary supplement in health food stores, grocery stores, or any place herbal supplements are found. It is the whole dried herb in a gel cap and can be administered in several ways. Take the capsule by mouth up to 6 times a day (depending on the strength) for treatment of waterborne pathogens, or taken by mouth while drinking the unpurified water. Do not exceed 500 milligrams a day. Another way is to make a tea or infusion of the herb. Simply boil some water, open the gel cap, and empty the contents into the hot water and drink. This does not taste very good but it works. 
     Next is to make a tincture. I like to use 100 proof grain alcohol for this process, though 40% or 80 proof will also work. I also find that using the root of the plant is best. This is where the alkaloid is most highly concentrated. This can take up to a few weeks to make and is best done before you are in a survival situation. Place 2 to 3 whole dried roots into a pint of grain alcohol and allow it to sit for three weeks in a cool dry place shaking occasionally. To use the tincture place 20 to 40 drops in water and drink 2 to 3 times a day or PRN (as needed). Sounds like many drops but this is the most effective way to take and use the plant in my opinion. This is a treatment as well as a preventive for waterborne illness. 
     The next plant is the Fremont barberry or Algerita also known as Berberis fremontii. This plant is in the berberidaceae family or barberry. This covers a wide range of plants in the southwest as well as other regions of the country. Another common plant of this family is Oregon grape or Mahonia aquifolium. The alkaloid berberine is found all through the plant but is more concentrated in the root but is also found in the bark. To use this plant remove the fresh bark and make an infusion by placing in boiling water. This is mixed either with the unpurified water or drunk as a tea by itself. The root can be harvested, cleaned, crushed, and used in the same manner. As stated above a root tincture is the strongest method that can be used. You must be extremely careful while using this plant. There are other chemical compounds in this plant that if used improperly or in too high of amounts can lead to serious problems. If you use this plant do not use for more than 5 days and do not take more than 3 times a day. Even that is a little high of a dose so be careful.
     Juniper or the juniperus family is widely distributed throughout the country. For treatment of waterborne illnesses, the Common Juniper or Juniperus comminus is most widely used. I have used several other varieties for treatment as well. This plant is used mainly for bacteria and fungus not protozoa, amoeba, or viruses. A strong infusion is made and drunk up 3 times a day for treatment of severe bacterial infections. I have chewed the leaves of the plants to extract the juice to treat intestinal problems caused by a moldy water filter. It worked like a charm. 
     Crucifixion Thorn or Canotia halacantha is one of the strongest plant medicines for this purpose and is considered to be toxic (I have personally used this plant for years with no ill effects). If used properly it can save your life. I have used this plant to purify water in the field as well as treat several different types of food and waterborne pathogens. Not only does it kill bacteria it will decimate Giardia. This plant can be used in several ways to either treat or prevent illnesses caused by unpurified water. A cold infusion can be made by steeping the plant (usually the thorn like branches) in water then drunk up to 5 times a day. A strong infusion can be made and added to unpurified water to treat it making it safe for consumption. Cold infusions can take up to 6 hours to complete. The green bark from the branches and twigs can be removed and chewed to extract the juice then swallowed. Do not swallow the bark, the human digestive system cannot digest it. A tincture can be made with this plant and used for the same treatment or prevention. Dosage is 25 to 50 drops every 4 to 5 hours. 
     I have used crucifixion thorn after eating bad chicken and after getting sick eating in a restaurant. As soon as the nausea and diarrhea started, I made an infusion and drank up. After two cups, I could feel it working. By morning all, the symptoms were gone. This is a very good plant to know, and one of the best I strongly believe this. 
     Talking a little about infusions, when it comes to these plants a tea can be made of these with hot water as well. Being in a survival situation you can come into contact with bacteria's or other type of pathogen that can otherwise make you sick. Untreated water is not the only way this can happen. The inability to wash your hands has a profound effect on health in a survival situation. Coming in contact with fecal matter from an animal or even your own can cause illness and even infection. Knowing these plants can help expand your knowledge on how to stay clean and prevent illness and infection from these situations. There is one more plant I wanted to cover but is not to be taken internally. I added this plant to this section because it is important for preventing illness and bacterial infection. This is the creosote bush or Larrea tridentate. This plant has so many uses and is known for being a great antibacterial. By simply making a wash made from a very strong infusion you can effectively wash your hands after coming into contact with anything that may cause you to become sick. Even using this plant to clean and wash wounds will prevent infection from setting in. If you have an infection, this plant can aid in treatment by killing the bacteria that cause it.
     This brings me to my personal experience with this plant. I had a cut on my hand that had become infected. It was starting to ooze a nasty yellow puss and was very red and inflamed. I was able to make a wash with this plant and in two days, I saw drastic improvement. I had even taken a hand full of leaves to make a poultice. This was applied to the affected area and within 4 days all the infection was gone. A little unknown fact about this plant, if you do not have toilet paper a hand full of the leaves can be used to clean your backside. Pull them off the branches and roll them around in your hands. This will make a ball that will stay together nicely while you do your business. Once this is done you can use more leaves by crushing them in your hands and rubbing it in to clean off any residual bacteria you may have come into contact with. This will leave your hands green but smelling quite clean.  
     Another good way to keep your hands and body clean is to make lye water. This is done by mixing a few quarts of water with a couple of handfuls of cool ashes from the fire. This will make a weak lye solution that will wash away bacteria and help with overall sanitation. Be mindful however not to add too much ash to the water. This can cause burns to skin. If you start to feel a slight burn then rinse off with some fresh water. This method can also wash clothing like socks or undergarments that become very dirty and laden with bacteria while in the field. Once they are scrubbed with this solution rinse in clean fresh water and allow them to hang dry in the sun. The sun will also kill any remaining bacteria left behind should the wash not be as thorough as possible.   
     Keep in mind that some water can contain viruses. While some of these plants have been known to treat various viral strains they are not known to kill viruses found in drinking water. This was written for use as a last ditch effort should no other method be available. I personally have used the above methods with great success. Use these at your own risk. Later I will be releasing a plant book. Look for it and study these scientific names for yourself. You will find that plant medicine is extremely interesting and worth learning. In the field of survival and bushcraft there does not seem to be much emphasis on learning plants and their uses, I see it as essential. It is just as essential as first aid in my opinion. They can be one and the same. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 4 Chapter 3
Filtering water
 
 
     There are many ways of filtering water probably the best is to buy a backpackers filter, which can be either a hand pump or battery operated. No purification is needed with a good backpackers filter. They are expensive but well worth the money. Do your research and find the one that best suits your needs. 
     A lot of backpacker's filters on the market are good. They will filter anything down to .2 to .3 microns with no issues. They come with many different types of filters as well. There are two I am personally partial to especially when it comes to my kid's health and safety in the field. The first is a ceramic/ carbon filter. This will filter out to around .2 microns and with the added charcoal; it will remove a lot of the bad taste from the water leaving it fresh and clean tasting.
     The next is a glass fiber media again with a carbon core. This will filter down to .3 microns and is very well suited to for environments that you may not be familiar with like remote or foreign travel. Some of the best filters out there will have a manual hand pump making them very easy to operate. They will also have a very user-friendly construction that will make for east care and cleaning. 
     In this section, I will be covering two common and effective filters. The first one will be the MSR Miniworks EX Microfilter. This one comes with a replaceable ceramic filter that will filter down to .2 microns. This is one of my favorite backcountry filters because of its size, weight, construction, ease of use, and simple maintenance. 
     The next filter will be the Aquamira Frontier Pro. This one is a very small versatile filter unit. It has an activated carbon filter that will remove cryptosporidium and Guardia. This filter also comes with 1-micron pre filters that will handle turbidity and murky water very well. This filter however does not filter out viruses, if this is a concern than read the section on this filter.     
 
MSR Miniworks
 
  
 
     The above photos are an example of a backpackers filter. In this case, it is the MSR Mini Filter. This easy to use hand operated filter uses a ceramic element to filter the water. This as with all filters you must clean and maintain them regularly; if not mold can grow inside the filter making you very ill. If this happens, replace the filter immediately.
     These are a great addition to the backcountry travelers gear. The operation of this filter is superb. It has filtered thousands of gallons of water for me and my family with no problems. You are supposed to re lube the O-ring in the pump itself to keep the filter operating smoothly. I forgot to do this once and it started to hang up on me while the filter was in use. Once I realized the problem, I used a Vaseline soaked cotton ball to lube up the O-ring. It worked flawlessly ever since. 
     The MSR Miniworks is very lightweight and compact I have carried it in the cargo pocket of my BDUs. It cleans up easily and when it is time for the filter to be replaced, it is simple to do. The .2-micron rating will remove everything from your water making safe to drink. 
      I chose this filter to add to my gear mainly because of the transparency of the entire unit. It is clogged or something goes wrong while the filter is in use you can easily see it. Obviously the dirtier the water the shorter lifespan the filter will have I have attached the next filter to the unit. I do this when I come up to some very muddy water and do not want to clog or shorten the life of this filter.  
 
Aquamira Frontier Pro
 
  
 
    This particular filter I will use in several ways. First, it is great for using as a straw to retrieve water from cracks in stone or in tree stumps. It comes in a handy bag that can also be used as a vessel to hold water. Drinking is very easy with a patented Bite Me valve. 
     This filter was designed to be compact and have many options. This filter can be threaded onto a found soda or water bottle for easy access. It can be used as an inline filter and connected to a Camelback or like reservoir. By connecting, it to either item this filter can be used as a drip filter. It can also be used on a hot water heater during emergencies and natural disasters. It will filter up to 50 gallons of water making perfect for most hot water heaters. 
     The Frontier Pro comes with extra 1-micron pre filter disks that can be doubled if desired and will remove sediment from water to extend filter life. One of the ways I have used this filter in the past is to remove the threaded bottle adapter and hook it directly inline of my MSR filer. The pre filter disk removes any debris and sediment from the water and keeps me from having to prematurely replace the ceramic element. 
     The Frontier Pro however will not protect against viruses. This filter is referred to as a cyst remover. It is best to pre treat your water beforehand or know your water sources well. Your local Forest Service office should be able to point you in the right direction. Most states will conduct studies as to what can be found in the water supplies.    
 
Bio Diesel Filter Milbank Bag
 
  
 
     This particular filter is a 1-micron Bio diesel element used in the filtration of bio diesel. This material can be cut up and used in many different ways. I prefer to keep it in one piece just in case. This method is used to clear the water only. It is then disinfected or boiled. For the demonstration, I am using a Ranger cook Pot to pour cloudy water into through the filter. Most sediment can be removed with a 1-micron filter. 
 
  
 
     In the photo above you can see the turbid water being poured through the filter element. Most of this turbidity can be seen building up on the white surface of the filter. Once the filter is dirty simply throw it in the washing machine and let it air dry. This can be used several times before actually replacing the filter. You can find these on line by Googling 1 micron Biodiesel filter. They are around 5 bucks, hard to beat for an effective makeshift Milbank bag.   
 
  
 
    The above photo shows the cleared water. This can now be disinfected and drank safely. By using methods like these, you can save a lot of time on improvised water filtration. You could even add charcoal to the inside of this type of filter to remove otherwise bad taste from the water. 
 
Making charcoal for filters
 
  
 
     In some cases you may need to make a fire to get charcoal to make filters or for medicinal reasons. True charcoal is made in an environment absent of oxygen. What this will do is open the pours wider increasing the surface area of the charcoal. 
     Charcoal works through adsorption not absorption. This means that toxins and other impurities will adhere to the charcoal instead of being absorbed into the charcoal. Once these toxins or impurities are essentially stuck to the surface they can then be moved through and out of the body safely. 
     To make charcoal start with some soft wood, I have used hard woods I the past with good results. Once they are glowing, coals simply dig a small hole and cover it up. After a couple of hours dig it up and rinse it off in disinfected water if it is to be used medicinally. This can now be crushed into a powder and used. An alternate method I will use to make medicinal charcoal is to find some cottonwood, aspen, or even dried pine and place it into my char tin. This will be placed on the fire and left until there is very little smoke coming from the top of the tin. I will then bury this making sure all seams and the top vent hole is completely covered. Once it is cooled I can dig up the charcoal and it is ready to be used. 
    This charcoal can be used not only in the filters but also for poisonings, stomach and intestinal problems, and diarrhea. If you get a hold of bad water, food, or some types toxic plants this stuff will save your butt. I mentioned some types of toxic plants because there are some like Death Camus and Poison Hemlock that this will not work with. It is also known not to work with Sacred Datura poisoning. When using this method for poisoning, be extremely careful not to poison yourself in the first place. GOT IT!  
 
Cactus and Clearing Water
 
     A method of clearing muddy water I have used in the past involves cactus. I will demonstrate this in classes using a clear bottle that I had cut in half. To do this simply cut a Hedgehog, teddy bear cholla, or a prickly pear pad. Peel off the flesh to remove the spines. Once this is done cut it in half lengthwise and scrape them until the juices start to flow. Place them into the container and pour in your muddy water. The way this works is not to suck the silt out of the water but to hold the silt in place once it settles in the container. As the sediment falls to the bottom, it is trapped in the viscous material from the cactus. This can then be carefully poured into another container to be disinfected. 
     I have heard to use a bandanna for straining water and clearing sediment. While this does work to some extent using the cactus method along side of this will work much better. This viscous material that comes from the cactus will hold the particles in place almost locking it inside. When this is poured through a bandanna, this viscous material will not pass through the fibers in the cloth.  
 
 
 
 
 










Section 4 Chapter 4
Expedient Water Filters
 
  
 
     First off, I want to get my main issue with this method out of the way. These are viable filters and they do work to clear murky water. The issue I have is the length of time it takes to make one and set it up. You will hear this again in my filling your container chapter of this book. If you dig a hole for water and it is murky, it will clear up and settle shortly after. Do not waste valuable time, energy, calories, and body fluid to build one of these if you do not have to. Use your head and know when these methods are worth doing. 
    There are some places that the water flows year round and the water is murky. Deciding to settle in to an area like that would make it viable to build an expedient water filter. Drinking murky water will not hurt you to drink it a few times. Your body will have to work harder to get rid of the debris that is in the water. This means that valuable body fluid is needed to wash away this sediment. Drinking murky water over time does not allow your body to hydrate as efficiently. In some cases, this murk can hide cysts, viruses, amoeba, protozoa, and bacteria in the pores of this sediment. Sometimes chemical methods may not work as effective on killing these as boiling would be.      
     One of the main issues with murky water is the disinfection. The debris that is in the water is tiny particles of porous material that can house microorganisms. You would need to boil this a little longer to kill them off. In addition, the UV water treatment I talk about later on is not effective with turbid or murky water because of this. Using iodine you will need to double your dose just to be effective as mentioned earlier. Chlorine dioxide will need to have a longer contact time to be effective. I have also learned that for murky water it is not a good choice. 
     To make the disinfection of water easier and more effective you would need to clear the intended water before you add chemicals. By removing the particles from the water, you are making the water easier to disinfect and keeping yourself safer when the danger of waterborne illnesses are present.       
     To make a filtering system, place several centimeters or layers of filtering material such as sand, crushed rock, charcoal, cloth in a hollow log, or an article of clothing. Remove the odor from water by adding charcoal from your fire. No matter where the water was collected, you must purify or disinfect it before it is safe to drink. Also, keep in mind you are using what you have on hand. In this case, you may not have the proper stuff to make a solid filter like the one in the next section. The material on this filter is porous. This means it will work but it will not take as much of the debris out of the water. It will also allow some of the water to exit the fabric and run down the outside of the filter. As a last resort this will work.
 
  
 
    This is an expedient water filter that the military has used to clear muddy water. Instead of a BDU leg I used an old pair of denim jeans and tied one end closed. The denim pant leg was filled with layers of sand charcoal and silt. I then rolled the top and tied the rope threw two slits to form a handle. I suspended it on a tripod I made using long branches and tied them together with willow bark. For added security place large stones on the legs to prevent the weight of the water and wet filter from sipping and falling on the ground.
 
  
 
     Use a container or a hat as in the picture above to pour the water into the filter. Run several cycles of water through the filter to ensure the filter is completely saturated with water. This will wash any loose sediment away and hold the remaining sediment in place and keep it out of the container. As the filter works, the water will seep through the different layers leaving behind any dirt, mud, or other debris inside the filter.
     Place a pot or cup under the filter to catch the water. Notice the picture below, the water dripping into the pot is clear. 
 
  
 
     A little difficult to see in the above photo but the water coming out of the filer is cleared. The particles have been reduced and disinfection of the water can begin. By doing this type of filter you are mimicking what the earth does naturally. Removing the larger particles from the water will make your body happier and you disinfection methods work more efficiently. 
 
Improvised Two Liter Bottle Filter
 
     This filter works the exact same way as the filter in the previous section with a little added perk. By using a 2-liter bottle, you are not using a porous material to clear your water. The plastic will prevent the water from running down the outside of the fabric used in the first filer. This makes this method clearing water that much more effective. There are however two holes cut into the plastic to allow you to suspend the filter. Unfiltered water can come out of these holes and end up in your container. Be very careful and watch your water level so this does not happen.  
     This is a very simple filter to build. Simply cut off the bottom of the two-liter bottle. Then poke a small hole in the lid with an awl or a stone tool. If this is not available, you can melt the holes with an ember or a hot piece of wire. Next, cut two holes on either side of the bottle near where you cut off the bottom. This will allow you to hang the filter anywhere you may need it. Next, place a piece of fabric in the bottom to cover the tiny hole. This will keep the charcoal and sand from running out with the water.  
  Next, layer in your powdered charcoal then sand, follow this by another layer of charcoal and top this off with sand. Hang this from a tree branch or a tripod and run several containers of water through the filter. This is done to settle the layers and prime the filter.
 
  
 
     In the above photo you can see the murky water in the filter and the clear water dripping into the container below. This water is now ready to be disinfected.
 
   Below are two ways the U.S. Military recommends to clear muddy or murky water. These methods are to be used when there are no other methods available.   
 
-By placing it in a container and letting it stand from 10 to 12 hours. I actually find it does not take this long to settle.
 
-By pouring it through an expedient filtering system.
 
Note: These procedures only clear the water and make it more palatable. You still have to disinfect it.
 
 
 
 










Section 4 Chapter 5
Ultra Violet Water Treatment
 
 
      Using ultra violet rays to disinfect drinking water is becoming widely used in third world and developing countries all around the world. This is a very easy and inexpensive means to make safe drinking water. The two methods mentioned below use this very method. Each has their seeming drawbacks but both are effective. The way microorganisms make you ill is by rapidly reproducing inside your body. UV water treatment works by essentially scrambling the DNA of microorganisms. This keeps them from being able to reproduce while inside your digestive track. There are no chemicals used for this method. The water must be clear and free of particles. Microorganisms can be buried inside these particles and shielded from the UV rays. This means make sure you water is collected from a clear source or use some kind of pre-filtration method to remove the particles.  
 
Steri Pen
 
  
 
   The Stri Pen is a portable battery operated devise that uses ultraviolet light to treat your water. This has a built in water sensor that will turn on the Ultraviolet light when the sensor is exposed to the water. This devise can also be used as a flashlight and a signaling strobe. It has a removable cover that is used in cold water to keep the bulb from breaking.
 
  
 
     Above you can see the Steripen in use. The ultraviolet light is on and the water is being agitated to insure proper treatment. This is an effective user-friendly method of water treatment. There is a button on the unit that tells you to press once for 1 liter and twice for half a liter. This button will also turn on the flashlight when held for 3 seconds. If the water sensor is not submerged in water, it will trigger the strobe when the button is pushed.
     The Steripen does have its drawbacks one of which is the battery. If kept up on and replaced regularly so the unit will be there when you need it. Most items that require batteries should be regularly checked and stored with the batteries removed. The other drawback is the bulb for the ultraviolet unit. This can break leaving you with an expensive flashlight and strobe. As far as the unit breaking the filter elements I mentioned earlier will break as well. It is all a question of taking care of your equipment and using it within reason. 
 
The SODIS Method
 
     The SODIS or solar disinfection method uses the sun and a clear plastic bottle to pasteurize your drinking water. This also allows the UV rays to penetrate the bottle and act on the microorganisms. This acts the same way as the Steri Pen mentioned above. This does not kill the microorganisms, but keeps them from being able to reproduce. The SODIS method works in two ways. It will scramble the DNA of the microorganisms as well as elevating the water temperature for long periods. 
     To use this method it is best to use a PET bottle, no not your pet's bottle, but a PET or Polyethylene Terephthalate material. This thermoplastic polymer is heated to shape into the bottles we see on the store shelves today. I have also used a CLEAR zip lock bag to achieve the same result. When using the zip lock bag extreme care must be taken to ensure the ground or resting surface does not damage the bag. This method is used if there is no other method of water disinfection available.  
     A full day worth of sun is required to make this method work. If the sky is half-cloudy, you will need 2 days to disinfect your drinking water. The water must also be perfectly clear in order to have full effectiveness. Look back in this section for methods of clearing water.
     When using the SODIS method this only treats the water making it safe for consumption. It does not remove odor or bad tastes. I have used this method several times in the past and it does work. I suggest to my students when ever water is concerned be opportunistic even if you have other methods of procuring and treating water. Look for plastic bottles and use this method. It is that much more water you will have when you need it. This will also make future water collecting easier because you are that much ahead of the game.
 
  
 
     The above photo is of a water bottle being treated by the SODIS method. This particular bottle has been in the sun for 8 hours. It was very warm to the touch and was safe to drink. This water had been heated by the sun all day, was well into pasteurization, and was treated by the UV rays from the sun as well. Not much is going to live through that. Whenever using this method take the time to cool the water. This will keep your core temperature down and make you that much more comfortable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4 Chapter 6
Boiling Water
 
 
      In this chapter, I will cover boiling your water. I will cover using containers and using found containers. I will also go over rock boiling and a specific vessel that I use just for doing this. 
     Boiling is the most effective way of treating your water while in the field. Depending on altitude and turbidity of the water additional time may be required to purify the water. A rule of thumb I use is muddy water boils for five minutes regardless. This is for the reasons I mentioned before in the UV water treatment section. If I am at higher altitudes water comes to a boil at a lower temperature. There for I will boil it for 5 minutes. This will ensure that everything is dead and the water is safe to consume. 
     When at lower altitudes below 5,000 feet I will simply bring clear water to a rolling boil. This is because by the time water comes to a rolling boil it has far surpassed even pasteurization temperature. This is where some would get really analytical and technical about the temperatures and specific times for pasteurization VS boiling. I am not going to do that. This information speaks for itself. There is no reason to get hyper technical or super analytical over information. I just say DO the skills, the specifics will be understood regardless. 
     I will start with the rock boiling. I am starting with this because there have been many people get into situations in the desert that have no way of boiling the water to make it safe. The method I am going to demonstrate can be done fast with very little material. The hardest part of it is gathering the firewood.
     So why go through all the trouble of disinfecting, treating, or boiling the water in first place? You really do not have to, plain and simple. Most survival situations will last anywhere from 24 to 72 hrs, longer in extreme cases. If you do not have the proper equipment to do any of this just "grit your teeth and strain out the big stuff"! This is 100% true! Once you get back to civilization, tell your Dr. you drank some questionable water. They have medicine to treat or even prevent waterborne illnesses. In short, they cannot treat you if you are dead. In my A Few Natural Ways of Water Disinfection and treatment of waterborne pathogens section I mentioned some ways of dealing with these issues in the field should a problem arise before you are rescued. I also covered the use of charcoal and how to make it.   
 
Rock Boiling
 
     This method is used in mostly primitive situations, although I have used it with plastic largemouth water bottles. Rocks are placed in to the fire or hot coals and allowed to heat up. When the stones are very hot pick them up with a piece of leather or tongs made from sticks. These stones are then placed into the questionable water or even for cooking food. In most cases the container is made by the coal burning method (more on this in later sections). The stones will release their heat into the water and eventually it will begin to boil. 
     In most cases, the stones will need to be rotated back into the fire. Make sure you have enough stones to rotate. While the used stones are reheating, you want to have plenty to use until all stones are evenly heated.
     When boiling water with this method once it comes to a boil for about a minute it is safe. If you are cooking with this method, you may need to keep it up for several minutes. Even though it may be difficult, try to keep your stones as clean as possible. This can easily be done by placing a large flat stone in the fire to hold and support them as they heat up. You can also just lay the stones in the direct flames. The water will get dirty, this is a fact of life, but it can also be cleared by allowing it to settle or by running it through a filter.
 
  
 
     The way I will rock boil is straightforward. I will find an Agave stalk and cut it. Once it is cut, find the longest section with as little insect holes as possible. I will then cut this to around three to even 4 feet in length and split it down the middle. This will give you two halves to do this with. 
     I can then dish it out the entire length leaving 2 to 2  inches from either side making a large tough. You can either coal burn this or carve it out with a knife. I like to carve out the first little bit. The reason is berceuse of insect holes. This inner pith is extremely spongy and can be cut into slightly larger pieces than the holes. Make a point on the end of the pith and put it into the bug hole. Once you meet a little resistance, give it a twist as you push it in. This soft spongy material will compress and seal the hole in the agave stalk temporarily. I have done this with some stalks that were able to hold just over 2 quarts of water. This is a very good amount to be able keep on hand and be able to rotate through as needed.   
     If you do not have Agave stalks you can do the same thing using large branch sections or even downed logs. If there is no way to split them simply coal burn from the top into the center and make a large tough this way. Point being; you do not have to be in a desert environment to be able to rock boil your water should you need to.
     Now that these are done, you can find some smooth rocks. Make sure these are not wet or setting too close to a creek or other water source. These can become grenades when heated in the fire causing some serious injuries. Once the fire is going good place in the rocks and allow them to heat thoroughly through. Once they reach this point in about 10 to 20 minutes take them out with some tongs or if you have a leather wallet, this will make an awesome hot rock holder.
 
  
 
     Place the rocks into the filled trough and let them sit until they begin to cool. Take them out and replace them with fresh hot rocks. In a relatively short amount of time, your water will start to boil making it safe to drink. If your Agave trough is large enough you will easily have one quart to a half a gallon of water on hand, making two wooden troughs would be a great idea to keep a supply of ready to drink water on hand. Once one gets low fill it and start the process over again. This is a method I teach in my Knife Only survival course. It is rough but knowing this one little trick will save your butt especially if you find yourself in a situation without the proper equipment. 
Boiling in a Container
 
  
 
     In the above illustration, I am removing a Guyot bottle from the fire. To do this I am using a multi tool. This is very dangerous and can result in severe burns or a knocked over water bottle. The Guyot bottle is by far my favorite bottle to carry simply because I can boil in it. 
     Safely removing the bottle from the fire is a relatively simple task. I will carry two quick release drier vent clamps with a couple of pieces of #8 copper wire. These are held on by the clamps to make a handle like a large beer stein. Given the properties of copper as the bottle heats up so will the handles. I have safely removed the bottle from the heat holding the handles with a bandanna. Once the bottle is set aside the copper will cool very rapidly faster than stainless steel or even aluminum. I can then hold the bottle like a mug or coffee cup and pour into a secondary canteen cup.
     This particular bottle I recommend for everyone to carry into the backcountry. Having a multi use item such as this will not only lighten up your kit but save time as well. The Guyot bottle fits in my Condor II pack or in two other packs. I use the Condor 10x4 bottle carrier as well as the Maxpedition jumbo Versipack. This has an outside pocket specifically for carrying the bottle.  
     There are a number of stainless steel bottles on the market. One such bottle is the Clean Kanteen. This very durable bottle will also hold up the repeated boiling. When looking for stainless steel bottles in the stores do not let a cheap attitude take over. There are many bottles out there that have seams in them. This is where the bottle was put together in two to three pieces. As the metal heats up on the fire, it will expand and contract. This expansion and contraction will cause premature failing of these seams. Cheap = not good!
     I found a nice bottle in a local store that had a couple of brass pieces in the neck and as the treads of the bottle. It cost me 2 bucks and I thought it would make a great bottle to boil in. I stuck it on the fire and as the water got to a boil the brass pieces fell into the bottle. After the bottle cooled, I examined the pieces and found they had used epoxy to hold them in place. I still use it as a boiling vessel just not as a storage vessel.  
 
Boiling in Found Containers
 
     In some cases, you may find containers on the ground. These can be plastic soda bottles, glass beer bottles, aluminum beer or soda cans, or even discarded food tins. Many of these will work very well without any preparation. Most food tins like those from canned vegetable or beans may need to be burned out beforehand. In many new food containers there is an enamel or a lacquer coating inside to help the can last longer on the shelf. By throwing these into the fire, you can heat the can to the point that the liner will burn away. This will unfortunately make the can weaker at the seams and start to leak water sooner. Be aware of containers that were used to hold chemicals like petroleum products, anti freeze, or even insecticides. My suggestion here is do not even try to use them. If there is even a suspicion that any container was used for these do not use then, discard then or just leave them alone. In some cases, I have even seen baby rattlesnakes and coral snakes taking refuge inside of found containers. When approaching anything on the ground that is hollow or has an opening use extreme caution.  
     Also use caution when using glass bottles. The heat will make them brittle and could crack or shatter while heating or cooling. If the fire gets too hot or the bottle cools too fast while using glass it will shatter. Plastic bottles are very good for the field. You can pasteurize suspect water in these by hanging them over the fire with some lashing material or cord. By watching the bottle and the flames you can safely make drinkable water this way. A word of warning, do not forget to remove the lid if the bottle has one. This will cause the bottle to build pressure making it explode and possibly cause severe burns.  
 
  
 
     In the above photo, you can see two glass bottles in the fire pit. There are many hot coals in the bottom insulated by the ashes. I moved some into a pile between the bottles and stoked a small fire. I did this so the glass would not heat up too quickly. Care should be taken in the selection of the bottles as well. Find them that are in one piece with no chips or cracks. Any cracks or chips will ensure that the bottle will fail.
 
   
 
 
     In the photos, you can see the old beer bottle and the clear bottle boiling. This, if done properly will take a while to get to a rolling boil. This can also be used to pasteurize water as well. These were removed from the fire with a pair of tongs. I did not use metal to pick them up; this can cause the bottle to break wasting the entire effort.
 
Utilizing Underground Water Sources
 
     When there is no surface water available the best way to find water is underground and by using the moisture just below the surface. By looking in cracks in rocks and digging in a dry wash you may be able to find useable drinking water. Follow the contours in the dry wash to help locate water. Look for things like damp sand, low points that rainwater might collect in large rock ledges that reach far underground. All these areas will trap and hold water. In some cases the water is just below the surface in others you may just get damp sand.  
    
 
   Late June in the high desert of Arizona, this hole produced a great amount of usable water. The hole was only a foot deep and took about a 15 to 20 min to clear up and settle. The water should still be disinfected. 
     In the Southwest, there are many spots like this. They are relatively easy to find if you just look. The temperature in the above photo was 110 degrees Fahrenheit. This water is protected from evaporation and heat. Once it is settled, you can use a cup to transfer it into a container or absorb it with a cloth and wring it carefully into a water bottle. 
     I have found several places like this just by kicking the top layer of sand and silt out of the way. The sand will be very damp just below the surface. To get to the water you can fashion a digging stick or just dig it up with your hands. Either way these water sources are well worth looking for. You can in fact boil the water inside the hole if you needed to. You would need to line the hole with a chamois or like material. Leather works very well for this or even the skin of a trapped animal. This is done to keep pathogens from getting into your disinfected water while you drink it or move it into a separate container. 
     In one class, the only container the student was able to find was a 44 oz Styrofoam cup. We dug a hole and lined it with a piece of heavy plastic we had found along the bank of the wash. We then got a fire going and heated some rocks to boil the water in the hole. Once the water came to a boil, we were able to remove the rocks and easily transfer the water into the cup after allowing it to cool for a short while. 
     If you ever happen to find yourself in a situation like this, you will find out very quickly it is very difficult. Although calories can be conserved by doing most of this while sitting in the shade, you are still without water. Every breath and every movement will drive the water deficit up that much further. Just like in my knife, only survival classes you pace yourself. Do not get into a hurry and do not lose focus of what you are doing. Even practicing this particular skill set is extremely dangerous. If you choose to go practice these types of skills, please be safe and take back up supplies. You can find yourself in a situation faster than you think, especially in the desert.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 4 Chapter 7
Collecting Water from the Sun and Sky
 
 
     The solar still is an effective way to utilize the natural occurrence of the "green house effect" to produce drinking water. Solar energy heats the ground by passing through a clear plastic membrane. Moisture from the soil then evaporates rises and condenses on the underside of the plastic above. It can take up to an hour to build and produce up to a pint of water a day if you are lucky. By adding edible plants to your still you can increase its output. Remember only edible plants can go into the solar still the toxins inside of some plants will vaporize inside the still and poison your drinking water. You can also purify questionable water by digging a small trench on the inside of the still and pouring the questionable water, including urine. NEVER USE THE FLUID FROM YOUR CARS RADIATOR. Ethylene glycol also known as anti freeze is a deadly poison. It will vaporize on the plastic membrane and poison your drinking water. 
     Before we get started on building the still lets go over a couple of things about the still. First, do not get in a hurry! Take your time and pace yourself. Building a solar still can be extremely dangerous. Second, it takes a lot of work, and you can quickly dehydrate yourself if you are not careful. I strongly recommend that you only use the still as a means of supplementing your water supply and should only be done if you have a supply of water IE in canteens or other water bottles. This may not make sense to you but think about this: A good working still takes over an hour to build depending on the type of ground you are digging. You are also in full sunlight for the entire project. Giving the temperature of the air and the ground, this will literally suck the water out of your body. I strongly recommend building your still late in the day when it is cooler. This will conserve body fluid and give you the next day for it to work. This is a big job and is very taxing on your body. The still will also work at night as a dew collector. If you decide to build a solar still play it safe and conserve as much body fluid and calories as possible.
 
  
 
     The solar still is built with a minimal amount of materials that should always be carried with you; these can be a folding shovel, a small trowel, or your canteen cup to dig with. Also a 6x6 sheet of clear plastic, a canteen cup or any clean container will work, I have used aluminum foil in the shape of a cup or bowl and it works very well. A six-foot piece of tubing, this is used to suck the water out of the container to keep from taking the still apart every time you need a drink. When the tube is not in use, wrap a piece of tape around it to keep it clean and bug free. To begin construction look for a spot that rainwater would likely gather or possibly, in a dry wash or creek bed, the ground is more saturated in these areas. Be ever mindful of the dangers of flash floods.
 
   
 
      Digging the hole for the solar still in a dry riverbed, notice the bank around the perimeter of the hole. This adds depth to the hole and makes a shelf that allows for more vegetation or questionable water for added moisture. I hit damp sand just a few inches below the surface. The photo at right shows the depth of the still at around three feet. While digging the still keep in mind, the books say a four-foot hole. I dug this one to around tree feet because the outer bank that is made by digging will add another foot.
 
   
 
      At left, the photo shows the cup being placed at the bottom of the hole. The photo at right shows the drinking tube being placed inside the cup. This allows you to drink from the cup without uncovering and recovering the still each time you need to drink. The tube can be a water bladder drinking tube with a bite valve or you can add tape to the end of the hose. This is to keep bugs and debris out of your water.
     Once you get to this point, it is wise to take advantage of the green vegetation around you. Any edible vegetation can be added to the bottom of the still to increase still production. You can use green blades of grass or even chopped up cactus. By digging a small trench around the inside of the pit you are able to pour in contaminated water or even urine. I did not do this with this particular still for two reasons. First, I did not have any other water available. I had just dug a three-foot hole in a dry wash without hitting any water. At this point if there was extra water, I would disinfect it and drink it. Second, I could not add urine to the still because my body had been losing fluid through sweat. I did not need to urinate.
 
    
 
     At left, the photo shows what the inside of the still looks like. I used prickly pear cactus to the bottom for added moisture. The drinking tube stretches out over the bank of the still and will protrude from the underside of the plastic for easy drinking. Right shows the plastic being placed over the still. Hold the plastic in place with dirt. This also seals the still to keep out bugs and debris. It is very important for the still to be sealed; the airflow will prevent it from working properly. 
 
  
 
     At left I am placing the stones in the center of the plastic to make a "recessed cone" to give the water a place to run and drip into the cup. The photo at right shows the condensation forming on the plastic after only fifteen minutes.  
 
   
 
     I returned to the still the next day at the same time to check the progress. I had obtained a quarter of a canteen cup of water. I also found that at around 3:30 my still was shaded. Not too bad for 9 hours of total sun. I added this to the book because it is taught in a lot of books and other classes. My personal experience with the solar still is with all the work it takes to construct vs. the amount of return on your investment I personally do not like this particular method. It is entirely up to you to incorporate the solar still as part of your survival plan. 
     In the past, some friends and I were on a survival outing when we got an idea to try something different with the solar still. We dug the hole and covered it with plastic but the biggest difference we made was with the hole and the plastic sheeting. We made the hole big enough for a plastic trash bag. We weighted the bag down with rocks around the bottom. We then weighed the opening down around the outer edge of the hole. We placed the drinking tube into the bottom of the bag and outside the still. Next we covered the hole with the plastic. When we placed the stones in the middle, we then poked a hole in the center to allow rain to collect and drip into the trash bag below. We were in the middle of monsoon season and we knew it would rain soon. We built a shelter and a fire then waited for the rain. Sometime around 9:00 p.m. that night, it started to rain. The morning we went to check the still and found it was half-full of clear, fresh, and clean water. Later in this section, I will go over the construction of this type of rain catch. 
Vegetation bag and Transpiration bag
 
    This method also requires you to carry extra material, and works on the same basic principal as the solar still by utilizing the "green house effect". This is not using moisture from underground but it is a way to get water from plants. It does not produce as much water. These methods are much simpler and are a great way to supplement your water supply. To use this process you must carry plastic bags, sandwich bags, zip lock bags, or even trash bags work great, clear works best.
     First find edible or nontoxic vegetation and place it into the bag and tie or secure the opening closed. Place the bag on the ground or on a rock. One corner of the bag should be lower than the vegetation to allow the water to collect. Once the water has collected, remove the vegetation and drink the water. Again, use only edible plants to do this. You can repeat this as many times as needed.
 
   
     This is the vegetation bag. I filled this one with blades of grass. I left this sitting for about an hour in direct sun. The condensation is already collecting in the lower edge of the bag. This will also work well for melting snow and ice into usable water.
  Another method is to use vegetation from a tree without removing any branches or leaves by placing a bag, preferably a larger clear trash bag, over the leaves on a branch of a tree. Simply place the trash bag over the end of a branch with leaves and tie of the opening. This is called a transpiration bag. 
    This is the transpiration bag, I Secured the opening of the bag around the limb of a hackberry. One corner of the bag must be pointing in a downward direction. Remember to use only edible or non toxic plants and trees for any of these procedures. Tie the opening of the bag tightly around the limb to seal the moisture inside. The bag will form condensation on the inside of the bag. This condensation will run into the lowest corner of the bag. 
 
  
 
     A rock or heavy stick can be tied to a length of cord that is secured to the lowest corner to hold it down. This will make a pocket for the water to collect. To retrieve the water I prefer to cut a small hole in the comer of the bag and allow the water to run into a container. This is easier than removing the bag from the limb risking the possibility of losing the water inside or damaging the bag. By cutting a small hole, you can simply tie a knot in the bag to close off the hole. There will be some leaves, debris, and even insects in the bag as well. The small insects that could be present are harmless and will not affect the quality of the water. I tested this to see how much water could be obtained. For this, I used a small cup to collect the water from the bag. The cup used was a small 1 to 11/2 cup capacity. It took over 24 hours to obtain as little as a  cup of water. The leaves of the hackberry are sufficient in size and were the safest to use in the area. The leaves are known to have a hard waxy type of coating to protect the leaves from evaporation. This makes it difficult to use this method on them; however, it will produce some water. This is very common in the desert for water conservation. I have done this with willow leaves with great success as well as mesquite. In places of higher altitude, the leaves of some trees will be larger and produce more water.  
Dew Collecting
 
     This method can be done in the early morning before the sun comes up. Simply wipe the rocks and vegetation with a clean rag or even carry a sponge for this purpose. You can even tie these to your lower leg and walk through the high grass and weeds. Once soaked wring it into a container or directly into your mouth using your thumb as a spout. This water is completely safe to drink as is. As the sun comes up the dew will quickly dry up. If you work quickly and start early enough you can gather quite a bit of liquid. These small seemingly mundane methods could save your life should you find yourself in a survival situation. Tribal peoples in arid environments will employ this method and collect several gallons of water.
Rain Catch
 
  
 
     The photo above shows a set up rain catch. This particular rain catch is set up and tied to available vegetation. This is made quickly and easily with a large sheet of plastic. This set up forms a cone to collect the water at the bottom of the plastic. As the wind blows, the trees will move causing the plastic to move also. This will shake the drops of water down to the reservoir. 
     In the photo, you will notice a stick holding one edge of the rain catch. This aids in making a spout to allow the collected water to run into a container. Simply lower the walking stick while supporting the edge of the plastic and the water will flow to the lowest point. This will allow you to transfer the collected rainwater. This type of rain catch is made to conserve energy. There is no making stakes then driving them into the ground. This simply allows you to take advantage of a few trees, some cord, and a few pebbles. I have built this type of rain catch off one side of a shelter. It is very effective and with the added trees over head, you can shake the residual water out of the branches and into the catch. 
 
  
 
     In the center of the plastic sheet there is a small pebble placed in the bottom of the cone and secured with a piece of cordage. This is then tied off to a heavier stone to form the reservoir or cone. Make sure the stone does not rest on the ground. When the wind blows, it will cause too much shock and stress as the cord lifts the stone. With it suspended off the ground it is free to move with the plastic. 
     To secure the ends and the center of the plastic is very simple. A small pebble twisted into the plastic then a length of paracord or other type of cord can be tied to this. This is a very quick and sturdy method of tying up plastic sheeting as well as tarps.
 
  
 
     Above is an example of how I tied and secured the corners of the plastic sheeting. Nothing at all fancy I just simply twist in a small pebble or stone and secure it with some cord. This makes a bulb in the plastic sheeting to keep the ends from slipping out should a wind blow the plastic. 
 
  
 
     Above is a photo of the finished rain catch with a little bit of rain caught in the bottom. The wide opening of this rain catch allows you to catch a lot of water from the rain.  
Subterranean Rain Catch
 
     Another rain catch I touched on earlier is a subterranean rain catch. This is a lot like a plastic lined solar still. The difference is the plastic covering allows water in to collect in the bottom. This catch was built just before a monsoon storm. You have to be quick and ready for these storms. They blow in fast and blow out just as quick.
 
  
 
     In the photo above, I am finishing off the rain catch. I have placed two stones in the center to form the cone that will force the water downward into the lined hole. With my knife, I poke a small slit to allow the water to flow. Once the clouds started to build, it was not long and it started to rain. It came down hard for about 4 to 5 minutes. Just enough for someone prepared to catch a bit of a drink. Once the rain stopped out came the sun, back to the usual hot and humid monsoon day. When this happens, the sun and heat begin to dry everything up very rapidly. Anyone who spends time out in the desert knows that after a rainstorm there can be as little as a half hour and the ground is dry once again.
 
  
 
     I removed the plastic from the rain catch to see how much water a 5-minute rainstorm would provide. As you can see from the photo there was close to a pint to a pint and a half. That is good for a hole in the ground.
 
  
 
     Another great way to utilize this rain catch is to leave a tube running from under the plastic. You can even insert the tube through slit in the top plastic sheet. This will keep you from having to tear the rain catch apart every time you need to get a drink. This method uses two sheets of plastic to make this rain catch. Keep in mind it would not be very difficult to use a canteen cup or other container to catch the water should you not have two sheets of plastic.  
     Plastic when found should be kept and used. It is a life saving material that can provide anything from shelter to water. Anything from plastic sheeting, plastic drink bottle, and even plastic bags can be used to collect water. 
     When constructing this type of rain catch, make sure you do not build in a dry wash. The danger of flash floods are very real and life threatening. The best way I have found to construct the subterranean rain catch is to find and area with sand or silt that makes for easy digging. Another way to achieve this is by stacking rocks in a circle to make a dish. This can then be covered to allow the rain to collect.
Plastic Bags for Water
 
     Some very useful items to have on hand are plastic bags. These can be in varying thicknesses and even have graduations for measurements printed on the sides. I like to carry a 6 mil bag that is heavy duty and can take a few pokes and scrapes from the desert. This is very important because no matter where you are in the desert everything is out to grab, poke, bite, or even sting you. Your water bags are no exception to this rule. 
     I have done water courses in the past; one demonstration was how to utilize a found chip bag to hold water. We rinsed it out and checked for leaks. There was only one in a lower corner, we simply twisted the material past the hole and folded it over on itself. We then tied it with a little cord to tie it off. This will also add greater pressure to the twisted material and help to make it watertight.
 
  
 
      Above is a photo of a 3-gallon capacity plastic bag. This gives me a good idea as to how much water is in the bag. In this one, I have close to a gallon of water. It may look dirty but in the desert this is just about as good as it can get sometimes. This is simply sediment, algae, and tannins from decayed plant material. This can be strained and disinfected then safely consumed with no ill effects. In my experience, I have not had any type of ill effects from drinking this kind of water. I must however give a word of warning. When green algae are present or in bloom it has been known to kill animals that drink it. This includes the green algae scum that can be found floating on the surface. Use all water at your own risk.
     I do not use condoms to carry water for the simple reason that you do not have an accurate enough measurement. It can be poured into a separate container if one is available but great care must be taken. They are also very fragile and must be protected in a sock, pant leg, or even a shirt. One poke from a rock, sticker, or branch and there goes your water supply you just collected. Condoms are also hard to fill without really working at it. It takes some skill and getting used to. The plus side of having a non-lubricated condom on hand is that they will fit anywhere with no issues. 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 4 Chapter 8
Filling Your Container
 
 
     At times, you will come across water seeping out of cracks in rocks and out of embankments. There are ways to fill your container with this life giving liquid without having to dig and cloud up the water and wait until the pool clears or build a filtering system. Water sources that come out of the rocks and the ground should still be disinfected or purified. The belief that the Earth and rocks will filter the water and remove all harmful parasites, bacteria, and even possible chemicals is not true. Most small towns in Arizona still use septic systems. These can contaminate underground water supplies over time. Mine run off can also contaminate the water.
     A side note: Downstream in the Agua Fria River they have also found an increase in the concentration of pharmaceuticals in the water. Turkey Creek is known for mine run off containing mercury, arsenic (which leaches from some rocks naturally) and cyanide. Again, use all water sources at your own risk. By using a piece of cord or even a bootlace, you can make a type of wick to allow the water to run into the container. The idea is simple, at a point higher than the opening of the water container place the cord on the rocks or mud and allow the water to flow down the cord and into the bottle through capillary action. This can also be done by using a shirt or even a sock if necessary. Any fabric that can absorb water can be substituted and used. Mud or sediment can be picked up and washed into your container. To avoid this allow the fabric to soak up the water and let it run for a while before letting it run into your canteen. If the water becomes muddy, it can still be consumed. This can cause some stomach upset or diarrhea in some people. 
     You can use any container made for water or drinkable liquid. In the following demonstrations, I am using a one-quart military issued canteen. I find these to be the best containers to carry with you due to the ease of carrying. They will also clip to any belt using the military A.L.I.C.E. clips on the covers.
 
     
 
     In the photos, you can see the water running down the rocks and the cord acting as a type of faucet. It took around seven minutes to fill this canteen using this method.
     Another way to fill a canteen in the manner mentioned above is to use your knife sheath to run the water into a container. The Frost Mora knife has a hard plastic sheath with a drain hole in the bottom. This was placed in a spot where the water would trickle into the sheath and act as a funnel to fill the canteen. The water was flowing down the rocks in such a way that it made it easy to place the bottom of the sheath into the canteen and allow the wide end of the sheath the rest against the rock. The water trickled over the lip of the sheath and flowed directly into the container. This worked very well and took only three minutes to fill the canteen. As I mentioned above allow the water to wash out the sheath to avoid any sediment or dirt that has accumulated inside the scabbard to be washed away. This will also wash away any metal shavings left behind by the knife inside the sheath. Do not do this if you use toxic oils or other materials on your blade. This can in turn contaminate your water.
 
      
 
     Notice the water running down the rock and flowing out of the drain hole in the bottom of the sheath. This makes a type of funnel to direct the water into the canteen. 
     Should you be fortunate enough to find surface water there could be debris floating on top.  There are ways to ensure that you do not get this into your container. I simply take a bandanna and place it over the opening to make a filter. The water can then run into the container. This will make it take a little longer. At times, I have filled the container and did not care if there was debris in the water. Once the water was treated, I put the bandanna over the mouthpiece and strained it out that way.
     I have done this several times using a U.S. GI canteen. These will give you the ability to give them a slight squeeze to suck water in. At the same time once, you disinfect your water you can simply put the bandanna over the opening and drink through it. Do not do this if you used it to fill the container. This works pretty well. I have made drinks from the Skunk Bush (Rhus trilobata) and drank with a bandanna over the opening of the container; this kept the debris out of my mouth.
     We know to submerge our container under the surface of the water to fill it. You may run in to the predicament of having to dig for your water or find very shallow pools. In cases like these, I will dig them a little deeper. This gives me room to work and be able to fill either my canteen, water bottle, or at least a cup to fill either one. Remember the cup is now contaminated with water that has not been disinfected. Take care to heat the cup in your fire or set it in the sun for a long period to heat the metal if a metal cup was used. If a plastic cup was used, clean thoroughly with disinfected water. 
     Once you have dug out a larger hole let it settle. This will keep the muddy water out of your bottle. I have mentioned before how to clear the water using an improvised filter. This will take as long as it would to build it as it would to let it settle on its own. Using Chlor Floc tablets will pull the sediment together but keep in mind you may not have them on hand.
 
  
 
     In the above photo, you can see me with a dug out hole in this very shallow and narrow wash. I will allow this to sit and allow all the silt and other debris to settle then submerge my container carefully to fill it up. Once the clear water is disinfected, I will have clean potable water to finish my hike.
     I have also seen times when water will be running but is so far back into a rock crevice to really use the string or wick method or the sheath funnel to fill the container. To fill the canteen we would need to get in there and catch the trickle of water. Sometimes they can be close enough to just reach inside and fill up the container. Others you will need to get inventive. Depending on the area, the water maybe trickling down the rocks then quickly is disappearing into the sand below. I have tried to dig in a couple of places that I know of that will do this with no luck. The sediment is just too deep to dig to the pool below. If it is running down the rock face, use the above-mentioned methods to fill the container. If you have to reach deep into a crack to get the water, be weary of snakes, wasps, hornets, bees, and other dangerous insects and arachnids. The snakes will usually be there to get out of the sun and can be moved with your walking stick. This is an opportunity for a meal as well, just be extremely careful. Wasps, bees, and hornets will defend their water hole as well as their nest. They can become very dangerous and attack with the slightest vibration. Killer bees can become very aggressive and attack without provocation. In areas like this that may have a stinging issue you can normally tell from a distance during the day. The bees, wasps, and hornets will be flying around the area. At night, they will become a little less active making it harder to distinguish where they are.      
 
 
 
     If none of these things are in the crack it is safe to try to reach in and fill your container. In the photo, I am reaching into a crack to catch the water that is trickling down off the rocks. This stream is too shallow to just fill the water bottle and the rocks are obviously too hard to dig through. In this particular area, the water disappears in to the silt. I am not sure how deep the silt is in order to hit the water hole. I would rather sit and fill my canteen this way then waste energy, calories, and body fluid trying to find out.  
     To put a lot of this mildly use your head; do not waste time and energy on something that may not be accessible. Look at the area that your water is in. Ask yourself; what is the easiest possible method I can use to get a drink without wasting time, energy, calories, and body fluid?  In most cases, I like to go with my physics friends' explanation using Ockham's razor, the explanation requiring the fewest assumptions is most likely to be correct, or if you have two equally likely solutions to a particular problem, choose the simplest. 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 4 Chapter 9
Locating Water
 
 
     In this section, I will talk about locating water in the desert. These are a few methods I use to find this life giving drink. Among the ways I will cover in this section are animals and insects, Low point myths, locating a good spot for where water will collect, looking for exposed bedrock, deciduous plants and other plants to look for, and spotting a "bad" water hole. 
     First off, I am not here to discredit anyone or any publication that deals with this subject. I am going on personal experience of locating water in the Southwest region of the U.S. Second, I will not mention any publication or person that has released so-called "bad" information on this subject. A lot of information out there is dangerous and if you do not take the time to learn the skills yourself, it could land you in some deep problems. Read these sections and try it out for yourself. Learn what will work for you, you may even be able to simplify the process. If so, I would love to hear from you. That is the biggest reason I am writing this, to share information and knowledge with the reader. 
     As we know, water is crucial to staying alive in the desert.  You may have carried what you thought was enough and simply ran out. It has happened to me on several occasions. I have been out in 120 degree and hotter temperatures during the day and misjudged my own water supply. It is very easy to do and land yourself in serious trouble. When this happens, you have landed in a survival situation. In those temperatures and no water, you can DIE in less than a day. There have been cases of deaths within a few hours. These are severe and extreme situations that you need to know how to deal with.
     With more and more hikers, taking to the desert to enjoy Gods beautiful creation it is easy to forget or lose track of how far you have gone and how much water you have left. This is a key phrase "how much you have left". I try to plan my trips according to my on hand water supply. If I have a gallon of water and I drink half of it that tells me it is time to turn around and head back. For those times that it just slips your mind and trust me it can and will here is what to look for.
     Let us start by getting to a high point. This will give you a great vantage point to look over the terrain and see what features are available. I take this time to look for what I refer to as "green belts" these are large stands of deciduous trees. There is usually a riparian zone in those areas. Remember Riparian = life. There is an abundance of water, shade, and other valuable resources in these areas. I have come across Riparian zones that had no surface water flowing through them. In this case, you can easily find a low spot that has exposed bedrock. Water will collect here and will not be able to settle into the ground any deeper than the depth of the rock. I have found water in the hottest times of the year just mere inches below the surface in these areas. 
     If there is no riparian zone to be found look for fingers coming off the sides of mountains. These are channels for rainwater to run off and collect in low points along these areas. You can even look from on top of the hill you are on and see where they will run into. Again, when looking in these areas; look for exposed bedrock as well as green vegetation. This does not have to be large trees but smaller vegetation like clumps of green grasses or seep willow (Baccharis salicifolia) stands. I have heard lots of people say look for mesquite trees....not entirely good advice. The taproot of the mesquite tree will indeed find water but that water could be 70 to 80 feet down. The seep willow I mentioned earlier only grows where there is water nearby and it cannot grow anywhere else. 
     Another plant I will look for is mullein. At lower altitudes, this plant has to be close to water. I have found it above 6,000 feet away from water, but below that altitude you can just about bet that, a short scout around the area will pay off. Most plants that have a broader leaf structure will aid in your quest for water. The reason is simply the heat and the sun. In the open desert, most plants will have a narrow or tiny round leaf. This is to protect the plant from water loss. They have less surface area to be affected by the sun and heat.  
     I also like to pay attention to insects. Most exposed water supplies are guarded by bees and wasps. By listening to what is around you, you can notice the sounds of bees and wasps as you get closer. They can and will tell you where water is. Be extra careful in the Southwest when it comes to bees and wasps around water. They will protect their source. Butterflies, dragonflies, and a host of others in the area can also be a good indicator. You can also look around for animal tracks. Heavily traveled animal trails can lead you to water. Animal trials in many cases will in fact come together and form arrows pointing in the direction of water. Javalina are good at locating water. Their tracks can be mistaken for a deer but are more round in the front. Their trails can lead to water as well but be very careful they can be dangerous. Look for droppings, stale and dry could well mean the water hole is dry while fresh could mean a possible encounter. Watch birds, their behavior will also show you the direction to water. Generally, birds will fly straight and directly toward a water source. If they are flying around, landing on trees, and chirping they are coming from water. 
     Also from a high vantage point, you can see rock outcroppings that could very well shade and protect water. The chances are better if you find these in washes. The abundance of bees and wasps in this area is a good sign of water nearby; animal tracks are a good bet as well. Once a good spot is found simply, move the first couple of inches of the sand or silt out of the way. If it is damp, you are in a good spot. I do not recommend digging more than a couple feet in one area if you do not hit water. You will be wasting valuable time, calories, and body fluid. A lot of the southwest is ranch land. This means cattle tanks and windmills. Keep your eyes out for these! They literally dot the southwest.
     In higher altitudes like the Bumblebee and Prescott area and even in and around Flagstaff I have followed a wash for a mile or two and found the water trickling right out of the ground. It is not uncommon for water to just seemingly appear and then disappear underground just a few feet away. This water must still be disinfected. The old myth of water flowing out of the ground being safe to drink is dangerous. In modern society, we still use septic tanks. These over the last century have built up contaminants in the washes and rivers of the southwest. 
     Another big issue to look out for is "bad' water holes. These poisonous water holes are contaminated by either the natural leeching of arsenic from the rocks or from the runoff from mining operations. These areas will be void of animal tracks, wildlife, insects, and may even have carcasses a few yards away. There are many mineshafts in the southwest. Lots of them have water in them. DO NOT DRINK IT! It could be contaminated with mercury, cyanide, copper sulfate, and a host of other chemical toxins. I have a friend that told me of a story about a person that was crawling around in an abandoned mine shaft. He ran into some water inside the shaft and below the surface of the beautiful, clean, clear water, he spotted a mine car still on the tracks and in perfect condition. As he reached into the water he said, "He felt like he was on fire" The water was so highly contaminated that it burned his skin. 
     Another hazard of mineshafts is the difficulty of them to be seen. Some cannot even be spotted from the air. Wondering around in the desert can land you in the bottom of a 2,000 ft mineshaft. Some are covered with old lumber and back filled. One wrong step on one of those and the earth gives way to a dark pit and you are never heard from again. The old saying goes "lot holes out in that desert...lots of problems buried in those holes" That simply means they are so deep that you could hide a body in them. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 4 Chapter 10
Plants for Water
 
 
     One common misconception about the desert is the barrel cactus. Yes, it stores water it is a succulent. In my area the most commonly used is barrel cactus, fish hook barrel cactus or Ferocactus cylidraceus. This is also the only barrel cactus I have used for water. They are also highly protected in the southwest. I bought one from a nursery to try. The pulp is spongy and filled with liquid. This liquid however will lower your core temperature. Not a huge issue during the hotter times of the year but when the days and nights start to cool down this can spell trouble. The only time of year I have used this cactus was during monsoons when it was at its fullest. Other types of cactus I have used are the claret cup, the strawberry hedgehog, prickly pear, or the teddy bear cholla in vegetation stills to extract water. I have used the two-hedgehog cactus (claret cup, and strawberry) to obtain tiny amounts of viscous material. It is high in water and the body does not have to digest it like a food product. It however does not quench your thirst. To get enough you would have to destroy excessively many cacti. Reserve that for serious survival situations when water is very scarce. To do this simply cut the spines off the cactus and place it into a bandanna or cloth and wring the crap out it. It takes tremendous strength and a lot of time to do this. Not really worth the time in my opinion. It is however worthwhile to use these in a vegetation bag or a solar still. 
     A little bit of a warning when it comes to collecting water from plants. Make sure you know the plant you are collecting from. Make sure the liquid is clear and that it does not cause a reaction on your skin. Some liquid from plants like the Agave and even some trees like the sycamore have safe liquid that you can see through and is not 100 percent clear. There are in some parts of the world plants that will kill if the liquid is consumed. Some cactus species like the Euphorbia are toxic to humans and should be avoided. The iconic Saguaro cactus can hold up to 200 gallons of water but is also considered toxic to humans and can be hallucinogenic. They are also highly protected in the state of Arizona. Touch one even in a survival situation you will be paying a very stiff fine. Do not touch your eyes after handling liquid from unknown plants they can in fact cause severe reactions and in some cases even blindness. Other plants can have very fine hairs that may not irritate the skin but will cause conjunctivitis. This is a severe allergic reaction or can even be caused by some strains of bacteria that affect the conjunctiva of the eye. This membrane covers the eye and inner parts of the eyelids.  
     As stated in earlier sections you can use edible vegetation for vegetation still, transpiration bags, vegetation bags, and increased solar still production. One of the plants I have successfully gotten water out of is the wild grape. In early spring to early summer you can cut a section of the vines and water will begin to drip out of it and into a container, life saving and does not taste too bad either. One vine can yield up to a half a cup but for little effort that is a half of a cup you did not have earlier. The water dripping out of the cut section will add up with several vines cut and placed vertically into a container. Keep in mind this is not at all like the water vine found in the jungles of Central and South America. 
     On one occasion, I recall my wild grape vines getting out control in my yard. It was midsummer and they had grown into the siding and almost ripped the gutters off the roof. I started to cut them down, stack them on the concrete patio until I could gather them up, and haul them off. As I moved them, I noticed the concrete was soaking wet and I had not run any water. As I carried them off the compost pile, the juice was running down my arms. I held up one of the very large vines I had cut. This vine was well over two inches thick. The water was just dripped out. I got so excited I ran into the house with it to show my wife. She clearly did not see the scientific merit in my discovery. 
 
  
 
     I took the above photo above is a photo while on a camping trip. I had found a huge area with these grape vines growing all over the rocks and in the trees. I chopped a small vine and the water dripped out slowly for a good five minutes. This is enough to make this a viable water source in the high deserts. 
     Another plant that will hold a decent amount of liquid is the Agave. There are a few ways I have collected the nectar from this plant. As the stalk begins to grow this is the time to cut the top of the plant off just below the second row of leaves on the basal rosette. You can them dig out the center of the agave into a bowl shape. This is where the liquid will collect. This must be covered to keep animals and as many insects out as possible. This will slowly fill the bowl over the next couple of days. Seems a little slow right, well the fastest way to collect the juice from the agave I have found is to cut the stalk anywhere from late spring to early summer if in the higher elevations and split it down the center. Inside the stalk, a moist fibrous material holds this nectar or sap. Once split this material must be removed and the liquid separated. In the field, I have done these two ways. First, I lay a bunch of the chunked up inner material into a bandanna. I will then wrap it up tight, lay on a hard work surface, and beat it with a stone or a large stick. Once the fibers are broken up enough this can then be wrung out into a container. One stalk will yield about a canteen cup of water from the beginning of the growing season to very little as the inner pith turns in to a spongy mass.
 
  
 
     Above is a photo of the beginning of a flower stalk growing from a Golden Flowered Agave. The liquid from the stalk is sweet and can provoke thirst; on the other hand, it is something and will replace valuable body fluid. Be careful with exposure to sap from the leaves of this plant. It can cause severe contact dermatitis in some people. When it comes to handling the inner pith of the stalk to drinking the liquid, I am perfectly safe. If I come in contact with the juice from the leaves I break out into a horribly painful, burning rash. It only lasts a few hours but the entire time is miserable. 
     Another way of retrieving water from plants is to look for sycamore trees. This is done similarly to the way you would tap a birch tree. Simply drill a small hole into the trunk of the tree just past a cambium layer. You will notice water starting pool up on the inner edge of the hole. It will them begin to slowly drip. You can them make a tap from a sliver of wood to direct the drips into a container. It is important to look and notice where the water is hitting the ground so you can accurately place a container to catch the drops. You can also tie your container to the tree just below the hole. It can take up to a couple of hours to collect a cup of water. This can be expedited by tapping several trees at once. The water is good and safe to drink as is. Once finished collecting your water plug the hole to keep insects out of the tree trunk.   
Making containers for water
 
     In the desert, there are all kinds of materials for making containers for water. From clay to wood, it takes a little skill and ingenuity to put together something that will be functional and practical to carry your life giving fluid. In most cases, people have left something behind that can be used. However, there are places where these things are nonexistent. Besides this is some good info to have stored in your cabasa should you need it. 
     Let us start with the basic materials.  I prefer to use cottonwood, aspen (same family), pine, and juniper. These are considered soft woods. You can use hard woods for this such as oak, mesquite, or hell even ironwood. You must go much slower when using these woods. They will heat up, crack, split, and sometimes explode. So be very choosy what material you use. There are also woods that are toxic like those of the locus's or dogwoods. Needless to say, "stay away from those". There have been a lot of people that have been poisoned by oleanders. This wood should not be touched for any reason. People in their back yards have made hot dog roasters with the plant and were dead with in 24 hrs. The smoke when it is burned is also highly toxic.
     Willows are great! I have heard many contrary opinions regarding the wood. Yes, willows contain salicin the glycoside of salicylic acid. This is a raw form of aspirin. It is more highly concentrated in the bark of the tree. The wood will contain some but not in strong enough amounts to give a problem unless you are allergic to aspirin. I have personally used Willow for several wood projects including a water vessel. My opinion as long as you are not allergic to aspirin willow is safe to use for many projects including those that involve containers for food and water.
     Sycamore is a hard wood but works very well for making coal burned containers. By burning straight down the grain, you can make a great coal burned water vessel. I have also made grain mortars out of this material with a mesquite pestle. Carefully inspect the wood you are gathering for cracks or insect holes, these could make a leaky container. Decide how large of container you need. At this point, you can cut with a saw....or just burn the wood to length.  
     One thing I am always asked is how to boil water in a knife only survival situation. In these classes, I like to pull out the old bag of tricks and really get people's attention. One way of doing this is with the prickly pear cactus. I have achieved the same goal with slightly green agave stalks as well. These must however be hollowed out with a sharp stick. The inner pithy material can be a little difficult at times but it can be removed. With the prickly pear cactus, however you just need to remove the spines and make a pita pocket out if it. Some of the cactus pads I have used have held up to a quart of water in them. 
 
  
 
     First off, you will need to make a pair of tongs to grab the cactus pad safely from the plant. With a knife or sharp stone, you can safely hold the pad with the tongs and cut the thick pad from the cactus. Then lay the pad on a flat rock and with a coarse stone begin to gently sand off the spines. You will want to be very careful throughout this entire process not to puncture or otherwise compromise the outer skin of the pad. If this happens, you will have a leak. The spines and the little tiny hair like spines will come off easily. If this is done on a windy day make, sure you do this with the wind blowing away from you. Trust me this makes for a very uncomfortable time. 
     Once all the spines are removed, the pad can then be safely handled without much worry of the tiny glochid causing discomfort. With your knife or sharp stone cut enough off the top to make an opening big enough for filling and pouring out the water. This is where it can get a little tricky. You will want to cut the pad from the opening down through the inside making a pocket to hold the water. Be very careful with this, one slip and you can destroy your work up to this point. 
 
  
 
     Above is an example of how to open up the pad for water. This particular pad gave me enough space for a half a quart of water. While cutting there will be no resistance on the blade this stuff will slice like warm butter. I like to slice inward then change grip and move the spine of my blade backward to aid in making the pocket. Seeing this you can see that you can do this to several pads giving you the ability to gather a lot of water. This not only gives you the capability of being able to store water in camp but is also gives you the ability to pasteurize your water making it safe to drink.  
     The next step is to place it next to the coals in the fire pit. This gets a little tricky too. At this point as the pad heats up it can become brittle and break open. This is why it is crucial to allow it to pasteurize or at the very least come to a boil very slowly. 
 
 
 
     In the photo, you can see the pad supported by a stick on the backside. The front is exposed to the heat of the fire and coals. With a rock shoved into the opening the vessel will stay open allowing for the removal of the water after it is ready. You will notice upon trying this that you will get some film and slime on top of the water. This is fine; this is the edible pulp and viscous material in the cactus coming to the surface. This brings me to a second point. Make sure the cactus you choose does not have a milky sap. If so discard the pad and do not use it. Cacti with a milky sap are highly toxic and can kill. I have heard of people getting diarrhea from drinking a lot of the water that has been pasteurized in the pads or from simply eating the cactus itself. From my experience and I have drank a lot of this water, I have had no issues. I do however understand that everyone's system is different. With this said try it before you are in a survival situation. 
     Once your water is ready, the vessel can be removed with two pairs of tongs. These are to hold it very carefully on both sides. The cactus pad can be set away from the fire in a variety of ways. Obviously since the bottom is not flat, you will need to make a way for it to stand. Two ways I have done this is with a few rocks to place around the pad. This will support it and keep it from falling over. The other is to have a few holes prepared. These must be as deep as half of the pad with vertical sides. This will hold the vessel upright while you carefully backfill the hole. The benefit of doing this is the water will cool much faster making it possible for you to hydrate sooner. Just be mindful where you placed them. You do not want to have to redo this every time you step on one. 
    Once the water is cooled down the cactus pad can be carefully picked up and used just like a cup. The water is very good and has a refreshing flavor. From my experience, you want to be able to keep at least a gallon of these around and always being rotated. If you empty one, refill it if you can and heat up the same as before. Some will survive a few processes others will only survive one. That is just the nature of the beast! At least you can now effectively pasteurize your water. With literally millions of cactus pads in the desert and just a few minutes of prep work, you can get a drink and stay hydrated. I have experimented with other types of cactus for this particular method. I have found that the prickly pear is by far the best giving you the highest volume possible. If you are in an actual survival situation and you need to make water safe this is a very good way to do it.   
     Now I have to give my word of warning when it comes to using cactus for water or food. All cacti have a compound that will lower your core body temperature. You will know this by the chills and possible body aches you will get during the night or even in an air-conditioned room. Understand that even though the process in this demonstration is being subjected to heat for long periods you still come into contact with the juice of the cactus. For this reason do not attempt this when the nights begin to cool or in the colder months of the year. The knife only survival course I teach involves a lot of improvising techniques. When the nights begin to cool down and the colder months begin to approach, we revert to coal burning containers and rock boiling our water. It is for this reason that we must know exactly what we are doing in the wilderness regardless as to where it may be. I have never read this information anywhere, not even in the US Military Survival Manuals. I found this out for myself (the hard way) and through many conversations with medical personnel. 
Pant Leg Bladder Canteen
 
     This next method for carrying water may seem a little crazy considering you need to cut the leg off of your pants at the knee. Many people worry about sunburn or even insect bites if they wear shorts in the desert. This can be remedied by covering your legs with mud. Some times of the year it also gets very cold. This is the reason I suggest doing this in the hotter times of the year only. In some cases you may have even came prepared with the pant legs cut off and packed inside your pack. You may have even thought to bring an extra pair of pants. Whatever the case may be this is an effective means of carrying your water with you.
 
  
 
   The photo above shows two cut off pant legs from an old pair of BDUs I had lying around. I will start by tying off the bottom cuff of the pant leg; this will make a very good bag. In order to hold water in this you need to line it with a plastic bag, two-liter bottle, or even a large sheet of plastic. Whatever is available make sure it will hold water and there are no holes. 
     Place the plastic liner inside the pant leg and fill it up with water. The top can then be secured with cord and even folded over and tied closed. The excess cord will give a great strap to allow the full bladder to be carried. To keep the water inside cool or to cool water that has been heated, simply dunk the bladder into some water and just hang it from a tree branch. This will cool the water through evaporation. It will cool by several degrees. 
     You will also want to be careful with this bladder. Thorns and stickers can still puncture the internal plastic bag; if you are using a found two-liter bottle this will be a lot stronger. I have also used this method to protect and carry a full condom of water. This does work and will give a little extra protection from sticks and other things that would normally pop the bag. Waterproof dry bags that are airtight will also allow you to store and carry water. Look around in your existing kit and see what you may have that will allow you carry water in this manner.
     Being able to carry extra water in the desert is a blessing. Having extra means of carrying a gallon or more is even better. Items like this should not be over looked and should be a part of every desert survival kit. Take this idea and try it out in the field. I think you will find it is handy as well as life saving. On a side note about cut off pant legs these can also be used as gaiters. Slip them on over your boots and tie the cuffs to help keep debris out of your footwear. In the cold these can be stuffed with forest debris or even extra clothing to create dead air spaces for insulation. They can also work as a secondary pack for carrying small items like tinder, kindling, traps, or any other item you made in the field.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 4 Chapter 11
Desert Navigation
 
 
     In this chapter, I will discuss navigation and signaling. I have a strong opinion when it comes to navigation and how to use it in a survival situation. Most people when out for a hike are unprepared with no map or compass. For this reason, I will not be doing a map discussion nor will I be getting deep into compass skills. The reason for this is if you are lost, you do not know which direction to go in the first place. I will explain how to pick a bearing and stay on it. I will also touch on a basic common sense approach should you attempt to self-rescue.
     One of the biggest things I preach is getting to a high point so you can have a good vantage point to see where you are. You never know help could literally be just over the hill. You may even be able to see a highway or interstate. If not there are some steps you can take to find your way out. The first is the old commonsense adage; of moving down the mountain until you reach a creek, then follow that to a river, then so on and so on. This is true most creeks or rivers in the backcountry will take you to a road. A road is a sure sign of civilization.
     Let us say you are on top of your hill. What do you look for? First off, in the desert you may not realize that most of our creeks and streams are dry. You can however see the fingers coming off the mountain. These are carved by rainwater and snowmelt running off the mountain. These will then meet, depending on the time of year, a dry wash. Follow this downstream until you cross a road or come to a bridge. 
     That is great information but how do I find downstream in a dry wash? This is simple. During monsoons, we will get flash floods and during years that we have good snowfall, we will get the run off. Look in and around trees for debris that is entangled. This will literally point to the direction you need to go. The water will push and bend it around branches and tree trunks. This will also tell you how high the water has gotten in the past. Another good indicator of downstream is to look for washes that run into and connect with the one you are in. These will naturally run in with the current. Almost like an on ramp to the highway. Makes sense it is easier to flow in with the current than it is to try to flow in against it.
     Keep your eye on where you are stepping while in the southwest. The terrain here will kick your ass and that is not a joke. Many of the washes we have here will have slopes greater than 45 degrees and are as high as 600 to 1,000 feet or more in some places. If you get caught in one of these when a flash flood comes you will not be able to get out of its path. There have been reports of thirty-foot walls of water rushing through these.
     With slopes like that, you are prime for a broken ankle or worse. The rocks in most of this country will slide right out from under you. Plan each one of your steps carefully and use a walking stick to probe the ground and rocks in your path. This is also a good idea to lift the brush and probe obstacles to check for snakes. You do not want in this situation that one surprise. All you need is not to see the Mojave rattle snake under the bush you are passing and are tagged. Chances are you will not make it home. 
     This can then run you into another problem, getting rim rocked. This happens when you have no place to go. You cannot go up and you cannot go down. There have been hikers get in to these places that have had to be air lifted out. The point being; plan your rout carefully Look far ahead for obstacles and look for ways around them. If you can go up it is probably best to over than through. It is better to take the long way around sometimes. We are not on a television show shooting for ratings; we are trying to make it home alive.  
     Another landmark to look for is large stands of deciduous trees. The exact same thing you look for when searching for water. I will say it again riparian zones mean life. Many campers like to camp in or near these areas; look for used fire rings or debris left by campers. This will be a sign that rescue could be nearby. There are generally roads that lead into these places and in spring and summer, you can bet it will not be long before someone comes by especially if there are cool rock formations or water in the area.       
     Knowing how to find North, South, East, or West is crucial for finding your way home. Having a compass makes finding your direction easier. What if you do not have a compass? The answer is simple you really do not need one. There are several ways to tell your direction. Simply knowing that the sun rises in the East and sets in the West is probably the easiest and most practical beginning to learning how to travel without a compass. 
     The shadow method is the easiest to use. Begin by shoving the end of a stick into the ground. Place a stone at the end of the shadow produced by the stick. Wait for approximately 15 to 20 minutes. Then place another stone at the end of the shadow. The shadow will travel in a west to east direction pointing out your east to west line. From this point you can easily determine any direction you need to locate.
 
  
     The photo above shows the stick with the two stones and shadow. The stick does not have to be vertical. Some people prefer it to be diagonal. I have found it is a matter of preference and will work either way. In the past, I have tried to see what I could do with shadows. I have found that if it casts a shadow it can be used for this method. To make this as simple as I can, when the sun comes up in the east it is casting shadows to the west. As the sun moves across the sky and finally sets in a western direction, it will cast the shadow to the East. Sound simple? It should be, this means your first marker on the shadow is always your west reference indicator. The second will be your east. Forget about all the right hand left foot or whatever it is crap. Just remember your first marker at the end of the shadow is the west indicator. From there it really does not matter if north is in front of or behind you. You have your mark just simply head for it.
     I cannot believe how many books and videos I have seen that really make this harder than it needs to be. Now that you have read this, go outside if the sun is shining and try it. It will not change unless the Earth starts to rotate in the opposite direction between now and then. 
     In the photo below, I have mapped out a grid to demonstrate how the shadow compass works. The shadow has moved from the west marker stone to the east marker stone. Do not use the shadow as a north reference unless you know it is noon. As the day, goes on the shadow will move more to the east.
 
  
 
    The photo shows the accuracy of this method. Of course, you should know this does not point to magnetic north like on a compass. This method is showing true north; I did this as a demonstration as if you were looking at a compass. This is where degrees of declination come in to play but I am not getting into that. Most of my travels in the desert go by true north. This means I use these methods all the time. A hill in the north is in the North not 130 degrees north by north west. All my trips are set up according to my position to sun and how it travels across the sky. From there I pick landmarks that tell me which way to go. I prefer to travel with the natural flow of things instead of having to rely on manmade equipment. It is fun to play around with the gear but in reality, it can fail. Sometimes I will even find a way to improvise a compass. I will explain that below. I have been doing this for a very long time and I have always made it home. 
Field Expedient compass
 
     The expedient compass is a simple way of orienteering. All that is needed is a narrow leaf, a container, and a needle or piece of metal wire. The object is to find magnetic north just like a compass. To do this simply take the needle or metal wire and rub it repeatedly on your pant leg, shirt, or through your hair. The purpose is to statically charge the needle and magnetize it. All magnets have a north and south side. The north side is naturally attracted to magnetic north and will point in that direction. Next fill your container with water (plastic works best or simply dig a hole and line it) It is best not to use a metal container that a magnet will stick to or otherwise interfere with the magnetism. This will interfere with the magnetic field throwing off the compass. An aluminum canteen cup will work if you have nothing else. Place the narrow leaf on top of the water and gently place the wire or needle on top of the leaf after magnetizing it. This may take a few minutes to orient it. Once the pointer has stopped moving, the needle will be pointing to magnetic north.
     In order to get this method to work on must understand how to magnetize the needle. I have a variety of fabrics to work well for this. The key is find one that will hold a static charge. Polyester can work as well as cotton but are not the best choices. The best hands down is silk. This stuff will charge a needle like no one's business. If you do not happen to have silk, I have gotten nylon to work very well. I noticed this one day while getting out of my hammock. The object is to rub the needle or piece of steel wire on the surface of the cloth to build this static charge. This will in turn magnetize the metal long enough for you get a reading as a compass. This method will work but has been known to have its issues with accuracy. For example if you are lost which way is north or south on the needle. I strongly recommend using this in conjunction with other methods as a means of secondary navigation.    
  
 
     Holding the leaf in hand, I rub the needle on my clothing to magnetize the metal with static. Keep in mind the BDUs I am wearing are made from nylon and cotton.
 
  
 
     In the photo above, I used an aluminum canteen cup. Although the cup is not magnetic, the metal handle is. It did not throw off the compass enough to keep you from choosing a landmark in the direction of travel. Since I demonstrated this, I no longer use an aluminum cup. I now use stainless steel, which is highly magnetic. I can substitute this with the bottom of a plastic bottle or like container. I have found this works very well with my squishy bowls. One problem you will face using this method is the wind. The wind will disturb the pointer and blow it all over the surface of the water. This makes it impossible to find direction. Use it in a tent, shelter, or somewhere with a good windbreak. 
     You can achieve this in more than just one way. You can use a hollow log, a hole in the ground, or even suspend a piece of plastic or rain gear by a tripod. As long as it does not allow wind through you can determine your direction with this method. If you use a hole that you dug in the ground make sure that you line the hole with a piece of plastic to retain the water.
Navigation with plants
 
  
 
      The Barrel cactus is not only a source of food and water but can also tell you direction. Notice how the cactus is leaning. This is because this cactus will protect itself from the harsh sun that hits it from the Southern sky all day. It will naturally bend almost as if it is bowing to the South. This gives a good Southern reference to travel by. Another name for this cactus is the compass cactus. Use these if they are in a clearing or otherwise unobstructed area. Shadows cast by rocks or scrub can throw this off. This can be referred to at night or on cloudy days when there are no shadows to use.
     Another way to tell direction on cloudy days or at night is to look at the yellow Palo Verdy tree (Cercidium microphyllum) or the blue Palo Verdy (Cercidium floridum) the smooth bark is a greenish to blue green on these trees. The leaves are so small they allow the sun to hit the trunk of the tree all or most of its life. This causes sun bleaching that will fade the bark on the Southern side of the tree. This works best for the more vertical trunk than the more horizontal branches. There is another type of Palo Verde tree in Arizona called the Mexican Palo Verde. This particular tree is not a great example of direction finding in the desert. The bark is very brown and scaly. This does not fade with the sun. Cercidium floridum will produce a brown scaly bark later in its life making the yellow Palo Verdy the best to go by.    
 
  
 
     This is a Yellow Palo Verde tree (Cercidium microphyllum). Notice the two colors on the bark. The yellow color is caused from all day sun, which in turn changes or fades the color of the bark. This is a good indicator and will give you a reference for you to travel when there is no sun. 
     There is also a way to tell by looking at other trees with thick foliage. General rule of thumb in other areas in the U.S. is that the leaves are thicker on the South facing side of the tree. This is because the tree is taking advantage of the sun all day long making the leaves grow thicker on that side. Not quite the case in the southern deserts of the U.S. It is in fact the opposite. The leaves will be denser on the northern side to protect them from the overly harsh sun in this region. 
The watch method
 
     The watch method can be a little confusing and there are two ways to do this. Depending on if you are in the northern or southern hemisphere will determine how this is done. I will not be covering the southern hemisphere in this section so I can try to cut down on the confusion. Besides I have no reason to show the southern hemisphere if I live in Arizona. Start out with a watch that has hour hands, this will make the project much easier because each increment on the watch can be a reference point. If you only have a digital watch this is not an issue. I have simply imagined the clock face around the edges of the digital watch. I have also used a file to score specific points into the surface at the 6, 9, 12, and 3 o clock locations. This allows for a better mental picture of what you are looking at in reference to the sun.  
  
     This illustration shows the sun in position in the sky. You can see the hour hand is pointed at the sun. With an imaginary line we can cut the area of the watch in half between it and 12 o'clock making a small pie shape. With another imaginary line directly between the hour hand and 12 o'clock this will point south. This method will work but is not 100 percent accurate. This will give you a southern direction so you can plan your move or pick out a landmark and head for it.  
Patrol Maps
 
    Making and using patrol maps is not as difficult as it sounds. In fact it is very simple. You are the one making it, it is for your reference, and you are the one that must understand it. Forget fancy map symbols and terminology, for this it is not important. The idea is to take a bearing and orient your map to that baring. Find specific landmarks that grab your attention and jot them down. Also take note of the location of resources like water, animal dens, possible shelter areas, and so on. If you cannot draw just get as close as you can and label the landmark on your map. Keep the amount of paces you have walked in mind or use pace beads. This is so if you need to double back for any reason you are fully aware of the area and the resources it has to offer. By counting your paces, you will also know how far it is from area to area. 
     I will use this method for jotting down prospecting areas, rattlesnake dens, Indian ruins, and even places I have found a new plant I would like to study. Because it is my map with my references, someone else can find it and not know what the hell I was doing. Using methods like this has simplified my desert travels and made it easier for me to find the things I like to study or even photograph. If I get confused, I can always make a small footnote telling me what a specific item is on the map.
 
Using Snow
 
     Yes! Surprisingly enough it does snow in the southwest. One great way to determine direction is to look at the mountains when they contain snow. The snow will be deeper on the northern side of these. In many cases the snow will be left on this side of the mountains well after it has melted off everywhere else. This is because the sun is weaker on the North Slope. The north side of the slopes protects this snow keeping it longer. Snow can also be a great medium for signals. On a sunny day, someone that needs rescue can make a 3-foot wall formed into an "X' to cast a shadow. This will aid rescuers in seeing the contrasting shadow against a white background.       
 
Navigating by the Stars
 
     Ancient sailors navigated using the stars as reference. The Vikings for example would put a notch on the top of the mast as a reference point for the pole star. By keeping the pole star in the notch they were able to navigate in any direction they needed to travel. The Pole star is the only star in the sky that does not move from season to season. This makes it the only reliable way to navigate at night. The following diagrams are examples of finding the North Star. Notice how the North Star stays stationary throughout the changing seasons. Notice how Ursa Major and Cassiopeia seem to revolve around Polaris. 
     One of the illustrations I will show is an explanation of the northern sky at night and how the constellations of Cassiopeia and the big dipper move throughout the year, while Polaris will stay stationary. I hope this will give you a good idea of how to locate Polaris at night no matter what time of year it may be.  
     There are also other ways to use the stars for navigation. Look at Orion for example. If I were to make a star chart for determining direction during specific times of the year this would be a great place to start. Orion is not visible in the summer and is very visible in the fall, winter, and spring months. This with many constellations will appear to move across the sky. Orion being the key example here will begin in the eastern sky at night and slowly move to the western sky. Now the reason Orion is not usually seen in the summer is due to the Earth's rotation. This is the same reason that many of the consolations can only be seen in certain times of the year. However, I have seen and I have spoken to many people that have found Orion during the summer months. Perhaps it is best to say it is harder to see during this time of year.  This is also, why the stars in the northern sky appear to revolve in the sky during different times of the year.    
 
 
 
     Starting at the top left of the illustration is the night sky in spring followed by summer in the top right. Moving down to the lower left is the night sky in fall followed by winter in the lower right. This was put together to give you an idea of how to find direction during the year. 
 
Navigation using the Moon
 
     The moon too has an east to west travel across the night sky. However, this is a little trickier to figure out at times. There are several factors to take into consideration in order to understand how to use the moon as a means of navigation. 
 
  
 
     I hope that this does not confuse you anymore than it did me while trying to learn this method in the Boy Scouts. This can literally have you pulling your hair out, so please bear with me and I will try to explain this as simply as possible. 
     The above examples show the moon rising at two different times. One is before sunset and the other says after midnight. For argument sake, that is just say after sunset. This can make it a little easier to think of this in terms of before and after sunset. You will notice there is a dark and an illuminated side on this moon. This has to do with the waning and waxing of the moon cycles, which we will not get into. Looking at the moon in terms of direction if the moon rises before the sun sets the illuminated side will be on the west. The moon raising after the sunsets the illuminated side will be on the east. If the moon rises at the same time as the sun setting and at 6 pm or 1800 hrs it will be in the eastern sky. 
     Now to throw the wrench in the machine there are specific times that will give you a direction as well in terms of the moon rising. I will highlight those below so you can better understand them. 
 
6 pm or 18:00 hrs: east
9 pm or 21:00 hrs: southeast
11:59 pm or 23:59 hrs: south
3 am or 03:00 hrs: southwest
6 am or 06:00 hrs: west
 
     Using the crescent moon or what I have called the thumbnail moon will also give you a direction of travel. Although not an accurate direction, you can use it to get an idea where south is. The way I have done this is to take a stick, lay it across the two ends of the moon, and follow that line all the way down to the horizon. This will give you a roughly south direction to travel by. 
 
  
 
     Sounds a little off putting to say roughly south as a direction to travel but being lost is no picnic so being able to choose a direction and stick with, has a visual reference at the same time can, and does help. I hope this was not too confusing and you still have the hair you had when you started reading this. The times and references when it comes to the moon are still confusing to me to this day. The way I combat this is to make a note card with the information in it and put in my wallet. I can also make duplicates and put them into survival kits and tins. This is the best way I can think of to keep the information fresh and at hand when you need it. 
     Here is another very confusing fact about using these methods. Since they are all mostly approximate, the exception being the North Star, all other will differ slightly depending on where you are on the planet. Some can even differ from state to state. All these are best done through simple research and jotting down the times and positions in the sky on your own. This is actually very good practice not only navigation but for mapping as well. The more I learn about these methods the more intrigued I am to learn more. Do your homework; jot the constellations down in relation to the time of year as well as the moon phases. The fun comes from looking at the different positions from season to season. Even the sun will vary slightly from summer to winter. If you have kids this makes a very good and very interesting science project. Who knows they may even get extra credit.










Section 4 Chapter 12
Signaling for Rescue
 
 
     A harsh reality when it comes to signaling for rescue in the backcountry is that many signals can fall on deaf ears or blind eyes. In today's world, we are not in tune with these types of skills as we once were like when all kids grew up learning Morse code. I have run experiments in the field with unsuspecting hikers. I flashed them with signal mirrors and blew whistles to get their attention. When I approach them to ask if they had seen or heard my signals for help they would say yes in some cases and in others they would say they were not paying attention. The hikers that said they did in fact hear and see then thought it was someone messing around and having fun. This is actually a scary realization if you think about it. This means that if you did not tell anyone where you were going and when you would be back you could be in serious trouble. If you are able you could have to lumber or crawl to a trail and then to a road and throw yourself at people passing by. That is if they are even paying attention. There are ways of getting others attention; however these must only be used in serious survival situations. Take the common laser pointer for example, this will land you in jail and have a hefty fine attached to it for pointing it at anyone whether in a car, on foot, or in a plane. If however you are in real trouble, you can use this to get the attention of a passing game ranger or a pilot. In these cases if you are really in trouble and in need of help the federal law can be overlooked. 
     A lot of times rescue signaling can be misunderstood, most signaling techniques while effective methods are intended to be used when SAR or Search and Rescue are actively searching for you. These highly trained people are trained to look and listen for possible signals the person they are searching for may use to get their attention. In addition, while SAR is searching they will use pilots from civil air patrol as well as helicopter pilots. They can cover a lot of ground by searching from the air. In this case, most signals only need to be seen from 1,000 to 3,000 feet, in some cases up to 4,000 feet. Sounds easy enough right? Well hitting a moving airplane with a shiny object is not as easy as one may think. The target you are trying to signal is moving while you are staying still. These skills must be practiced before you actually need to use them. One way I have practiced these valuable life saving skills is to incorporate a friend, hopefully a friend that is likeminded. Find a very high hill and have your friend drive around on the roads below. I have found several out of the way places that this works very well. As the driver drives down the road, try to flash him with a signal mirror. Once you have mastered this move on to more difficult materials like polished pieces of aluminum cans or like material. Having a radio on hand for communication is a great idea to be able to be told if you are being seen.    
     In this section, I will show some of the methods I teach on signaling for rescue. I will talk about signal fires but I see those as being used in wetter weather or in colder times of the year. To use a signal fire in the hot, dry, or even the windy times of the year is asking for trouble. In a lot of other books and publications, I have heard repeatedly to burn your spare tire after removing the valve core. I can see this as a viable method if you are in an area that is clear of dry vegetation, and I mean well away. All it takes is one tiny ember to blow over to some dry scrub brush and it will start burning. 
     There have been lost hikers in the past light signal fires and they have gotten out of control. When this happened, they got to reap the legal benefits of their decision. I have heard it a thousand times, "I would just pay the fine". Cool! You do that. Once your fire gets out of control here is what you can expect in return.
 
1. You will pay the firefighters and rescue personnel's salary for time it took to put out the blazing inferno.
2. You will be looking at a very stiff fine for destroying public and or government property.
3. If it burns down any homes or other structures you can be charged with arson. This even includes park benches if they really want to press the issue. 
4. If it kills or injures someone.....well you get the picture.
 
     That works out to be a heavy price to pay for a rescue. In some cases it could easily work out to well into the millions of dollars with a little time in prison. If you decide to go ahead and pay the fine, your life will forever be changed. My point being if there is other methods use them.  
 
The improvised Coaches Whistle
 
     Noise is an affective signaling tool. This will get the attention of searchers looking for you from the ground. Sound can be a funny thing however; the human voice can be heard to a point but not very far. Whistles are by far the best noisemaker to have on hand in case of an emergency. They are all-lightweight and can be attached to just about anything. For me I prefer the Tops whistle. I like it mostly because it works and it comes with each one of their knives.
     One thing I see a lot of in survival kits is the pea whistle. In summertime that is not too big of an issue but in cold nights and in winter the pea will freeze making the whistle useless. What happens is the moisture from your breath with freeze inside the chamber just as if it had been submerged in water. For this reason, the best type of whistle to carry is a pea less. These are specially made for use with out a pea and are very loud.
     Over the years, I have learned how to improvise a lot of gear and equipment. One thing we learned how to make as kids was a whistle made from a soda can. It was a little tricky to use at first but once I got the hang of it I found it to be very easy to use. To make this you need an aluminum can, it does not matter what kind. I start by cutting two strips from the side of the can from the bottom to the top bend. This can be cut with a pair of scissors, a knife, or even a razor blade. The strips also do not have to be perfect, just make sure your sides will allow your thumb and forefinger to seal. After you cut these strips at close to a half-inch wide, you may need to alter the length throughout this process. Everyone's fingers are different; this is one of the crucial parts to the entire project. Your fingers must be able to seal the sides and prevent any air from escaping. Fine-tuning your whistle will come later and I will go over that with you in the final steps. 
 
Warning: The edges on any can are sharp and can lead to serious injury. Read and use this information at your own risk.
 
   
 
     This is an example of what the strips look like once cut from the can. In the upper left of the photo is what the finished whistle will look like. Again, your cuts do not need to be perfect.  
 
  
 
     One of the strips will be cut in half and placed underneath the longest strip. When placed together they should form a cross or a lowercase t. Now the wings or tabs that are formed will be folded over on top of one another. This will leave a tab sticking out of the top. Fold this down over the two flaps. This will aid in holding these in place and protect your lips from sharp edges. This has made the air channel that will force the air into the chamber just like a coach's whistle. Next fold the mouth piece over 90 degrees. This will start the construction of the air chamber that will finish the whistle. 
 
  
 
    Once this is done, use a knife, sharpened stick, or similar tool to open the channel. From here round out the chamber of the whistle by working it around your finger, be careful not to cut yourself on the sharp edges. Once this is rounded off, place your thumb and forefinger on each side and work the edges until a good seal can be produced. At this point, you may need to trim a little off the tail to make a proper fit to your fingers. Once you have this you will need to play around a little until you get the right width from the chamber to the air channel. This part is also crucial; if this is not done properly, the whistle will not work. You can see how the whistle looks like a coach's pea whistle. This one is a little better in my opinion. There is no pea to freeze in the winter and with a little fine-tuning you can easily make one hell of a loud whistle. 
     Now, why a whistle? Why can't I just yell? The answer to that is simple. The human voice will not carry as well as a good whistle. Using a whistle will keep you from wearing yourself out calling for people that cannot hear you.
 
Reflective Devices
 
     This covers a wide range of things from signal mirrors to the pop can you meticulously polished with fine sand. Signal mirrors with sighting holes are by far the best to have on hand. I have successfully signaled using a CD or DVD. I will be covering improvising a signaling devise in this section. The previous section we made a coaches whistle from a soda can. From the same can we can fashion a good signal mirror. Once you cut a square or a rectangle from the side of the can, I like to fold the edges all the way around the mirror. At this point, I will start to polish the aluminum to a decent shine. 
 
  
 
     Above is the finished mirror. This was polished using very fine silt followed by a bandanna. This constant rubbing of the surface will remove the coating that is inside the can and shine or buff the surface to make a worthy mirror. These do not have to be a mirror that you can comb your hair in, although the shinier the better. These mirrors have the ability to be seen from a very good distance. If your signal can be seen from at least 6 thousand feet, you are as good as gold. 
     Keep in mind there are many good signal mirrors on the market. I am partial to the adventure medical kits mirror with a sighting hole in the center. The reason I showed a way to improvise a mirror is to get you to think outside the box. There is nothing wrong with going prepared with a fully stocked survival kit and I highly suggest that you do. By showing you how to improvise should the unthinkable happen and you lose your kit or you decided you did not need on one trip you are not lost without tools. Everywhere I have ever gone in the desert there is some kind of trash left behind by someone. This waste and shameful practice of littering the landscape can be used to your advantage. Next time you are in the field keep a mental note of the trash and different debris that you come across and how often you find it. It is astounding actually.
 
  
 
   This photo shows the effectiveness of the aluminum can mirror. This small mirror although not as shiny as store bought mirrors is useful for getting a passing helicopters attention. Adding a sighting hole to this mirror will make it easier to aim.
     There are a lot of items that can be found that will work as a signaling mirror. In the past I have used the bottoms of bean cans and some snuff cans that had been shined up much the same as the aluminum can mirror. These too were also effective enough to get the attention of a rescuer. Anytime you are cutting or using this type of metal, be sure to take extra care. The edges of the metal are extremely sharp. It could easily cut you casing a worse predicament. 
 
Smoke
 
     Smoke can be a great signal. I suggest exercising extreme caution when using fire to get smoke. This even includes smoke bombs or smoke grenades. These too can get very hot while in use and can catch the surrounding vegetation on fire. By far the best way I have seen to make a good signal fire that will produce a lot of smoke is to burn a tire in a safe clearing. Plastic, vinyl, oil soaked rags or cloth, rubber like the hoses and belts of a car will all produce a heavy black smoke. While signaling rescuers the black colored smoke tells them that it is not a natural fire and that it was manmade. This also gives the perfect contrast and movement that is required for successful signaling.
     I have read stories and spoken with rescue personnel about some of the signals they have seen while searching for people in the backcountry. One that really stands out is a car that was burning as they flew over. What happened was the people that were driving the car were joyriding and the front wheel dropped into a mineshaft. They were lucky to even gotten out. The car was totaled and bent beyond repair. They managed to call for help on a cell phone, which started the initial rescue. The car was not going anywhere so they lit it on fire. This was then seen for miles away giving a great signal for emergency services. This particular event had a good outcome; they were in an area that had very little vegetation to catch fire. However, I do not know how the insurance company reacted to this one.   
 
Night Signaling
 
     In some cases you may need to know how to get someone's attention at night. SAR and other rescue personnel usually do not search at night because it is too dangerous and do not have the huge budgets for equipment that the Coast Guard has for these kinds of operations. However there can be in some cases small aircraft flying over or even the possibility of someone on a road that can possibly see your signal. Remember what I wrote at the beginning of this section. Some people thought that the signals were just people playing around. Still it does not hurt to try. 
     In the past I have experimented with several different types of devices that would work for signaling. What I found so far is three that really stand out beyond the rest. The first are the old stand bys or flares. These have been used for years to get rescuers attention. The next two are new. They are lights and lasers that are designed to grab the attention of a rescuer.
     The SkyBlazer flares are small and very compact. These can fit into just about any survival kit or even be stored in a vehicle for emergencies. Keep your eye on the expiration dates and be extra careful of accidental discharge while in storage. I have seen law enforcement vehicles literally go up in flames due to this.
 
  
 
     These are Skyblazer aerial flares. They are designed to work by pointing the flare upwards and pulling the chain to fire. These are designed to be used in an open area with no overhead obstructions. These are also made to burn out while in the air. Wind and a low firing angle can however affect this. 
     I have used these to get a fire going when it was very cold and wet. These types of flares contain magnesium that will burn at over 5,000 degrees. Be very careful when attempting this I have also had these ricochet and come back towards me. Not good if in a survival situation. That kind of injury can be severe. 
 
Lights and Lasers
 
     Nowadays we have the advantage of being able to use some of the items that the military use for signaling as well as law enforcement. The ability to use lights and lasers in specifically designed tools has been around for a while. Today however we have been able to fine tune them making more efficient than ever before. One of the tools I will be discussing is the Rescue Laser Light from Greatland Laser. This item is a must in any signaling kit. I was given the opportunity to field test this item for myself and make a video demonstrating its use. I was very impressed with the ease of use and sighting with this particular tool. I can honestly say that no matter what your outdoor hobby may be this devise is perfect for your kit.
 
     At first, I found the tool to be a little difficult to use. There is a slight learning curve with this. I highly suggest learning its use before you need it. Playing around with it was a great experience and I learned that it takes a lot of practice to be able to signal effectively. Once you learn your technique that will work keep working with it. All the practice will come in handy should you need it. This along with a signal mirror will make a complete signaling kit for backcountry travel. 
 
  
 
     Before you start thinking you can use a laser pointer and get the same effect let me correct you. The beam produced by this unit widens the further away from it you are. At 16 miles, the beam is over 6,000 feet wide. This can be used to signal a plane or helicopter it can also be used to scan the sky for would be rescuers. The rescue laser light is also designed to be used at sea and is waterproof to 80 feet. The laser beam is visible at night up to 20 miles. Note that is illegal to point any laser at a motorist or aircraft; even if you are just practicing with the laser you will end up in jail. I find the best way to practice using this tool is to have a friend along that is willing to drive out a ways while you flash them. Maintain radio contact so you can see if they can see the flash. Be mindful of people's eyes, laser radiation can damage the eyes casing blindness.    
 
  
 
     Above is a photo of the Rescue Laser Flare. It comes with a pouch, a red cap to protect the diode, and a loop for a key ring or cord. In the photo, you can see a line in the little black box. This is the laser beam hitting a wall at ten feet.
     I find using this laser is very easy. I will simply place the back of the unit under my eye and sight down the side like a rifle. I will then put out my hand with thumb extended. In the saddle that my index finger and thumb make I will put my target. This allows me to know where I am flashing and if I am hitting the target. This can be used when searchers are actively looking for you. This can also be used during the day although the distance is greatly reduced. During the day, I have easily signaled at distances of over 10,000 feet. That is almost two miles.
     The next signaling device is called the power flare. I have found this item worthy of being in a signaling kit as well. It has uses from being broken down in a vehicle, putting in the window of your house for emergency personnel, and getting the attention of would be rescuers. The Power Flare runs on a single 123a battery and is available in a rechargeable as well as several LED colors from amber to IR. It has 10 settings and 16 LEDs. Once shut off it will turn back on to the setting you last used. This unit is very tough. They boast that it can withstand the weight of a fire truck sitting on top of it. This is 100 percent true. During testing, we drove over it with my 93 full size blazer several times. It has held up nicely. The case and the rubber armor are very tuff.
     When talking about signaling devices I have used this particular flare to mark my trail and my shelter location at night. This makes it handy to find your way back should you have to take off in the dark. I have also used these to strap to the packs of fellow hikers should we be separated. There are also uses at home for this unit. In many rural communities, they do not number the houses where an intelligent human being can find the right address. While first responders are on their way, alert them that there will be a beacon in your window. This makes your house very visible and easy to find. 
     Even though the last two devices used batteries to function, I do not see this as an issue. Personally, I prefer to do regular checks of my gear and equipment. This means I will check the batteries of all the battery operated equipment I happen to have. If the batteries are not up to par, I will replace them. I will also not store my equipment with the batteries in. If I forget to check them, they can leak and destroy the equipment. As survivalists and outdoor enthusiast, we have the responsibility of taking care of our equipment, especially the equipment that will be saving our lives. We should show it the same care that we show our vehicles and our homes. If maintenance is needed at this time then get it done.   
 
  
 
     Above it a photo of a single unit pack, these are available in rechargeable six packs as well. A lot of law enforcement and EMS throughout the country have switched to this type of flare. There is no issue of accidental fires started with road flares. Police officers have lost patrol cars because of this. These are a very safe alternative to flares.   
 
Ground to Air Symbols
 
     This section of the chapter will have a diagram of some of the most common ground to air symbols used by the military. I have not included every single ground to air symbol. Most of which are not needed by civilians. I have added 3 of the simplest symbols. To employ these one would recreate the needed symbol on the ground from materials that will contrast against the terrain you are in. The Marines will make them in the snow so the shadow will contrast against the while ground. I have also added the universal SOS in Morse code. That is 3 short 3 long and 3 short. These can be employed as anything from flashes, whistle blows, or anything that can make noise or flash. 
 
  
 










Section 5 Chapter 1
Trapping and Hunting
 
 
  Trapping is a valuable survival skill to master. In this chapter, I will cover a few of the traps I use in the field. I will start with snares and then move to two of the most basic dead falls, the figure four and the Paiute. Both traps are over ten thousand years old and are just as effective now as they were then. In this chapter, I will also cover a few other hunting tools like the bow and arrow, the spear, and the ancient dart thrower known as the atlatl. These hunting and trapping techniques take us back to the beginning of our ancestral existence. It is exciting to me how some of the simplest designs and basic of tools can feed us. Such techniques should be practiced with caution and met with enthusiasm.
     Before I go any further with this section, I will explain that trapping, tracking, and even hunting does not have to be as difficult as other books and publications make it out to be. I have found some very simple ways of obtaining a protein source in the desert. I follow signs, signs that will lead you to your meal. These are simply put animal highways and likely den areas. I will also at times keep my eyes tuned to trees for birds' nests as well as on the ground. This will afford you the opportunity to find insects and arachnids. I had students all the time freaking out at the thought of eating a scorpion or a tarantula. I am here to tell you this is some fine desert dining.     
Survival Food and Diet
 
     This section is not for the faint of heart. I will take you on a culinary journey that will stimulate and educate you on a variety of wild foods. I am going to cover tools modern and primitive for gathering food. I have spent most of my life on the study of survival and primitive skills, along the way I developed a taste like no other to a different kind of food. The kind not bought in stores or purchased in any farmers market. As a former survival instructor, I have taught many students and as a part of the course, we would eat wild food. Many plants, rodents, amphibians, reptiles, and insects were on the menu. I have seen many cringe at the site of a tasty scorpion tossed into my mouth and chewed then swallowed. I would always say, "It is all part of staying alive. The key to survival is being able to step outside your comfort zone. You would be surprised at what exactly a person will eat when they are faced with a slow agonizing death by starvation minds quickly change.
     In this section, I will be demonstrating different foods such as wild plants, amphibians, reptiles, rodents, and insects. This is no different from our ancestor's way of eating. Aboriginal man lived in harsh environments and sustained the entire tribe with such food. A study of coprolites has in fact given us a good look into primitive mans diet in various environments. To this day indigenous people all over the world still sustain life by eating in this manner. They sustain themselves by utilizing everything around them. Nature has a way of taking care of her children. She has given us everything we need to live, stay alive, and thrive in any environment on the planet. We just have to learn how to live with her. Primitive man grew up in this environment as well as well as indigenous tribes today. The rest of us just have to come out of our cocoons and learn. Especially in today's world, we are faced with disasters never before seen by modern man. 
     This chapter can be somewhat controversial. You may not agree with everything I am saying. I see food as a gift, something for all of use to share and be thankful for. Most have turned away from where we came from and have never looked back. I have spent a lot of time in the wilderness and have reflected on my own personal direction. For me this is a widening path I have chosen. Every day brings me closer to my dream of living primitive full time. In today's world we cannot just drop it all and go primitive. We have been so deeply ingrained with the need for foolish things that we are told we cannot live without. We have in fact come too far as a society to turn back. Unfortunately, the planet is the one to suffer because of it. I am not going to preach the whole doom and gloom scenario, we all hear enough of that on the evening news to make us sick. I do not believe the world is going to end. It may, as we know it in the sense that the world is ever changing. Climates change, asteroids fall, and civilizations collapse. It is part of the way things fit together. Ultimately, life goes on.   
     Now you may be asking yourself, what does all this have to do with wilderness food? It actually has everything to do with it. Every life form on the planet eats, drinks, and expels waste. It has been this way since the beginning of creation. We all have our part on the planet as well as a place in the food chain. Keep in mind man is not always at the top. If we step into the African plains we are knocked down a few links. We may carry a weapon to hunt and protect ourselves, but that is not a guarantee that we will not end up as dinner for a lion or another apex predator. 
     In our modern world we are in tune with what we think tastes good. We are also inclined to take our lives into our own hands with what we eat. With diabetes, cancer, heart disease, even obesity on an epic almost pandemic proportion, we still eat the same stuff. To meet the demand of food products we have altered the natural balance and nutritional value of our food. Take the meat you buy in the stores. The ranchers pump the animals full of growth hormones and antibiotics. This in turn is passed all through the body of the animal. It can even be found in the eggs of chickens. After the meat is prepared for packaging it is pumped full of preservatives and chemicals so it will store longer. It is the same with vegetables. We have altered the genetic structure of the vegetables to produce more and to strengthen them for shipping. This even compromises the flavor and the nutritional value. Ever had a fresh garden grown tomato, It tastes a hundred times better than a store bought one any day. The pesticides and fertilizers even make their way into the vegetable in trace amounts. Some pesticides and chemicals are not passed through our body. It stays and builds up slowly killing us. 
     Let us look at why we eat. The basic principal is to stay alive. Most people have made it into a luxury or a taste experience. We take taste, looks, smell, and texture all into consideration. If any of these are at all questionable, we turn up our nose. Even certain parts of animals are not eaten simply because we were raised in the fact that it is disgusting. Many cultures around the world utilize every part of the animal not letting anything go to waste. This to me is very admirable. Even certain animals are eaten that we would otherwise think of as pets. Some cultures in South East Asia eat dog as a major meat source. In Latin America, guinea pigs are considered very tasty. We as people were in fact put here to eat animals. We were all at one time hunter-gatherer and in some cases scavengers. All life is fair game. We "evolved" because we ate meat and fats; we have a big brain to feed. 
     What does food give us? Well the simple answer is life. Food gives us the nourishment our body needs to continue and find more food. We are given important vitamins, minerals, proteins, fats, and sugars we need to keep going. All this is turned into energy to give us strength and endurance. What is not used up is turned to fat or stored energy. Most think fat is bad, well it is for some. Take the person that sits in front of a computer all day and gets little exercise. His nutritional requirements are different from that of someone whose job is physically demanding. Fat is energy. Today no matter what our activity level is it is best to have a lower amount of fat in our diet. We as a civilization do not have the physical requirements of primitive man. We do not have to chase down a wounded deer for dinner or walk all over the country to the next food source. Here in the southwest the fat content in the animal life is low. In colder regions, the animal life yielded more fat as an insulating layer from the cold. Fat digests much slower than meat. The digestion process raises your body temperature thus keeping you warmer. In this case, the energy released by the fat is heat.
      What is starvation? None of us as westerners knows what it is like to starve. Cody Lundin used the best term for this I can possibly think of he called it discomfort. As westerners, that really is all we know. We say we are hungry or "starving" for missing a meal or to describe our hunger pangs. To starve is go weeks without food. Many in third world countries know this all too well. It would definitely be an eye opener for all of us to experience real hunger. What happens during the stages of starvation is not pretty. As soon as your body realizes you have not eaten it begins to start stock piling fat usually metabolized from your liver. This is why the so-called starvation diet does not work. This tells your body to get ready for an emergency. Once your fat stores are gone, your body will begin eating itself for nourishment. The muscles in your body are literally digested from the inside for the protein. If you have ever seen photos of people in concentration camps, this is why they looked like that. Starvation is very painful. I get irritated to no end when I hear people say they are starving. No, you are not. 
 
Stage or Step Foraging
 
     Step foraging is a method used usually as a recovery from starvation but can be taken as a rule in a survival situation. This method restores energy, health, and nutrition. This list starts with fruit which is the easiest to obtain and the easiest for your body to digest. Start out by gathering ripe berries and only ripe berries. Unripe berries will upset your stomach and are very hard for your body to digest. Fruits like berries are loaded with natural sugar. This energy does not last very long; you will fill a boost of energy then a sudden crash. Keep in mind too much fruit can be a bad thing as well. It can cause diarrhea or even constipation. So be easy with the fruit. 
    Fruit can be found year round if you look for it. In the southwest, I have found Christmas Cholla producing all year round in the lower deserts. I have also found prickly pear fruit in various places late in winter. Manzanita berries and Oregon grape in protected groups deep in the bushes.   
    Next on the list are fats. Fats are surprisingly easier to digest than lean meat. They will digest slowly to give long lasting energy. Use the energy given by the fruits to help you obtain fats. Look for easy to get sources for fats. Insects, especially larva, nuts, boiled fish heads, animals caught in traps, the inner organs are completely surrounded by a thin layer of fat, as is the spinal cord and brain. Use this then move on to the next level.
     Flesh or meat can be deadly for someone that is starving. It is hard to digest and uses up energy and calories to be broken down. Remember fat first then flesh. For someone that is just run down from a survival situation you can eat the flesh and fat at the same time. The flesh will begin to rebuild the muscles depleted during starvation. 
     Do not rely solely on wild greens and other edible plants and expect it to keep you alive. The fact is you may be able to last a few days on this alone and get by just fine. In the long term, you are asking for it. Keep your diet balanced, wild edibles are good but must be eaten in conjunction with other foods. Remember the food pyramid we all learned in grade school. It remains the same in a wilderness survival situation.        
     At the beginning of a wilderness survival or wilderness living scenario, I like to stress the importance of trapping over stalking and hunting. The idea is simple; you will spend far less energy making and setting several traps than actually stalking game to eat. The theory is that the prey will go to the traps instead of you trying to go to the prey. Save the hunting excursions for when you are well rested, hydrated, energized, and can make sure you can replace the spent energy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 5 Chapter 2
Animal Trails and Sign
 
 
     Survival is a life and death situation, keep that in mind as you read this section it is easy to get off track and think about hunting your meal. As I have said in the past, I do not believe in outright hunting while in a survival situation. However being opportunistic with a hunting weapon can and will pay off; in most cases trapping will be the best course of action. Consider the animal highway. These literally dot the southwest. They can be seen from the air in some cases. 
     Before I get started I will point out I do not consider myself to be a tracker. While tracking is a highly valuable skill to have, I have simplified trapping and broken it down for a survival-based scenario. It is actually much simpler than one would think. First off, our furry little friends as well as our feathered friends make tracks. This being considered if it has fur or feathers (with very few exceptions) it can be eaten. One exception is the buzzard or vulture. While these can be eaten, they carry many parasites being that they are carrion eaters. These must be boiled thoroughly before being consumed. Rats, mice, and other rodents must be carefully cleaned and processed before they are eaten. I will get into this later. 
     Finding very simple signs of animal presence can and will get you a meal. Knowing how to locate dens, burrows, and even highways will cut hours off your tracking. I have found that animals are a lot like people in many ways. They will find the easiest possible way of scoring a meal as well as being creatures of habit. Knowing that most animals that are suitable for prey and easily captured will follow a habitual pattern. Save energy and conserve calories by having a hunting implement handy while setting traps. Something as simple as a throwing stick can bag you a meal while scouting for areas to set your traps. By learning this, you can keep ahead of the calorie game.       
 
  
 
     Above is an example of an animal highway. These are heavily traveled with the rocks and pebbles moved out of the way making travel very quick and simple. What kind of animal uses these trails? They could be utilized by just about anything. Keep in mind also the fact that you run across a ground squirrel home does not mean that is what is in there. Students will ask me what a pile of sticks in a neatly built mound is. I tell them that a pack rat built it. I then proceed to tell them there really could be anything in there at this point. This is another reason I would prefer to use traps. Whatever is in the hole will not come out if he knows you are waiting. Setting a dead fall in my opinion is the best way to catch the critter in this case; the trap works while you rest. Besides, you do not have time to sit and wait for your dinner to show itself, let the trap do the waiting. 
     These game trails can even be followed to the den of the animal. In the heat of the day they will be hiding, possibly in the den. Most desert critters are nocturnal for this reason. In cooler times of the year, it is not at all unusual to see the occasional critter scampering along looking for food in the middle of the day. Rock squirrels, desert cottontails, and jackrabbits are the most common to be seen. A simple throwing stick or well-made survival bow will offer a chance at some food. Do not discount reptiles as a food source, I have clubbed many common fence lizards with nothing more than a simple stick. 10 or 15 of those and you have a decent meal. Again, I will go over those a little later.   
 
  
 
     Above I followed the trail to the den or burrow in this case. It was not that far from where I intersected the highway in the first place. You can see this heavily used trail leads under the creosote bush. These are excellent places to set traps. Keep in mind that when the animal exits their domicile they are extremely weary and will be on the lookout then more than any other time. 
     I have read about den and burrow snares. I personally have never had any luck with these. Even after covering the scent, they still know that something is up. What normally happens is they will see that the entrance is obstructed or otherwise changed. They know exactly how they left it. I have seen them dig out and around the snare. They will then move the obstruction from the outside this why I would rather smash em with a dead fall. These are 100 percent more effective for rodents.  
     There are also simple ways of telling if the site is abandoned. In some cases, this can happen. Look for fresh sign, this means tracks or disturbed ground. If it is abandoned the wind and rain will work to cover these up. By looking at the burrow or den, it is easy to tell. These sites require maintenance just like our homes and shelters. Fresh dirt and debris on the outside will be a tell tale sign that there has been some recent housekeeping. Abandoned areas will have debris inside as well as being void of tracks. One exception to this is if the burrow is taken over by rats and other rodents. There will be some debris inside but will also be peppered with feces throughout the entrance.   
 
  
 
     Check out this burrow hard to tell if it is in use or not. The ground is very hard packed clay and loam. The way to tell if this den has had any activity is to look at the opening around the entrance. Notice how the lower right has been smoothed off. This is from heavy traffic in and out of the burrow. Before you go and say what you think might be in the hole I will tell you I sat 10 yards from this spot and waited. A skunk came out of this very same hole just before the twilight was gone. 
     In other burrows, I have found evidence of kangaroo rats. These are also very common in this particular area. State and federal law protects these; if you decide to trap and eat one make sure you dispose of any evidence. The same goes for many species in the desert. The best way to trap these is with a slightly smaller Paiute deadfall. This has a very sensitive trigger that will be very effective for these small rodents. 
 
  
 
   In the photo above is an example of a burrow that is now occupied by a kangaroo rat. Notice the feces along the ledge and in the entrance of the burrow. Some of the droppings were recent showing that this burrow is occupied. You can also notice the smoothed ramp that also indicates recent use. In some cases, I have found rattlesnakes taking over these holes. Be careful!  
     In my opinion, the most abundant protein source in the desert is the pack rat along with other rodents. The dens of the pack rat are unmistakable. These are piles of sticks in a slightly protected area. These can be in extremely rocky areas, in and around cactus and acacia bushes. This affords minimal protection from would be predators. One of their biggest predators is the rattlesnake. These can enter the den very easily and devour an entire family of rats. This is also a word of warning. Pack rat dens can and will house rattlers whether it is the middle of the day or at night.
 
    
 
     Above is an example of a pack rat den. This one was built in a rocky area that was surrounded by wait a minute bushes. A couple of well placed dead falls outside this den would give a good bet that you would have a meal waiting in the morning. One warning about the dens of the pack rat; DO NOT dig around in these! The dens are breeding grounds for Hantavirus a potentially fatal disease that is in the urine of these animals. When the urine dries, it stays in the dust and is stirred up by digging around in the den or by the wind. They have also been known to carry the plague.  
     As far as snaring, two animals I prefer to snare are the rabbit and the raccoon. These are easy to trap, prepare, and cook. Growing up in Oklahoma the raccoon was trapped and cooked over hickory coals, the meat is very delicate and tasty like roast beef. Rabbits on the other hand are tasty but nothing more than protein. Rabbit meat is very lean and can cause rabbit starvation if eaten for a long period. For a survival situation that lasts from 24 to 72 hrs, they are fine. 
     Some warnings about these animals, they can carry diseases. The short explanation when it comes to rabbits is to check the abdominal cavity, meat, and organs for worms. If worms are present, this means the rabbit must be discarded. Make sure the organs especially the liver are uniform and not spotted, blotchy, or otherwise deformed. This is a sign of a serious disease. 
 
   
 
Above are a couple of photos of rabbit tracks in the snow. 
 
     The rule I follow for coons is if they are found during the day stay clear. This is a good bet that it has rabies. Check the meat, abdominal cavity, and organs. There should be no deformities, worms, or discoloration at all. With coons, rabies is a huge possibility. A raccoon that is out during the day is the simplest way to discern the possibility of rabies. Coons are nocturnal; this means they are active at night. Set snares for them in late afternoon or at dusk and return in the early morning to check them. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 5 Chapter 3
Snares
 
 
     The first thing I would like to cover in this chapter is snares. Snares are traps that strangle or hold the animal in place until you can dispatch it as quickly and humanely as possible. They are loops made of wire, cable, rope, or cord. As the animal pulls or fights, the snare gets tighter and tighter. Depending on the design, it can either suspend the animal in the air or hold them in a certain area. These are affective hunting tools and have been used for thousands of years. They have found remains of spring pole snares in Puebloan ruins of the Southwest and the Four Corners areas.
     First, using snares and deadfall traps is illegal in most states. They are illegal in Arizona. These kinds of traps should only be used in an actual survival situation. To be sure you should check all local and state laws regarding trapping in your area. The author assumes no responsibility if these skills are used carelessly or illegally.
  Some snares can be purchased readymade and self-locking. The self-locking snare prevents the loop from being loosened when the animal is fighting and struggling to get away. I have made my own snares from brass lockers and 16th to 8th inch cable. You can also use picture wire for snare construction as well as copper and baling wire. 
 
   
 
    The snare on the right is a store bought self-locking snare. The photo on the left is a homemade snare made from 16th inch cable. Both traps are affective snares; they will work on a multitude of game. 
    Another good lightweight material to construct snares is GI trip wire. It comes in spools of four rolls and two different colors to match the surroundings. The olive drab wire works well in all seasons and blends in with just about any background. The yellow wire blends in well with fall when the leaves have fallen from the trees. This wire is weak and will not hold larger game. Use it for Rats and smaller animals. 
     When setting snares it is important to camouflage not only the trap but the human scent as well. Although I have heard contrary to this, I still see it as a good practice. Animals are naturally wary of the human. If they smell us anywhere around the area, they will avoid it. You can hide the scent with dead vegetation, earth, smoke, or even grasses that have been crushed and ground then rubbed onto the wire or cord. By covering the human scent with familiar smells, the traps are more likely to pay off.
     The loop of a snare should coincide with the size of the animal's head you intend to catch. For rabbits and squirrels, the noose should be as big as your fist. With rabbits keep their ears in mind; this will have an effect on the size of the loop. For smaller rodents, it should be smaller at about half that size. You can use snares for larger animals such as beavers, marmots, badgers, opossums, Raccoons, and others, yes I mentioned animals from other parts of the country. When snaring for these animals make sure the material your snare is made of is suitable and will hold the weight of the intended prey. Your traps should be checked at least twice a day. If you catch an animal, dispatch it as quickly and humanly as possible. Most importantly do not forget to give thanks to the animal for giving its life so you can eat. Please be respectful! 
 
  
 
     The above photo shows a roll of GI trip wire. It is available at any military surplus store. It only costs a few bucks and is light and small enough to be carried just about anywhere. Keep in mind this snare wire is extremely lightweight and will not support the weight of larger game like raccoon or opossum. If you intend to go after these animals, you will need to triple or even quadruple this wire. This can be done by simply twisting it together. This wire is however decent for rodents like mice and pack rats. I do however prefer to use snares for rabbits, coons, skunks, and the like.  
 
  
 
     To make a snare from wire make a loop and wrap the wire around itself two to three times. Wrap the wire loose enough to allow it to side easily but tight enough to prevent it from loosening on its own. This wire is strong enough to hold small animals however, it will snap under the weight of a thrashing squirrel or rabbit. To make this type of wire more effective it will need to quadrupled and twisted together. The photo above, I used the yellow trip wire for easier viewing.  
 
  
 
     Above is a photo of the completed loop. After wrapping two or three times, finish by twisting the wire back around itself. This will keep the wire from unraveling while in use. For this small of a gauge wire, has so far proven to be the most secure way to make the loops. Just watch to make sure the wire will slide freely with no hang-ups. When using heavier gauge wire there are several different ways to make your loop. 
     Another method is to use a stick to twist the wire to make the loop. Ron Hood told me about this method and it is very effective. I start by finding a stick about as big around as a pencil. I wrap the wire around the stick twice to reinforce the loop. I then hold the wire in one hand and twist the stick in the other completing the loop. There are many suitable materials for snare wire. Picture wire, floral wire, and steel wire are all suitable. This is strong and will hold up to 32 lbs of critter. 
    The other end of the wire can be done the same way to allow for easier anchoring. At this point pass the end of the wire through the loop and this will make the "slip" that is needed for strangling the intended critter. This loop can open in some occasions freeing the critter. By looking back at the previous loop photos, you can see that the wire being wrapped around it makes it a little more difficult to side and open should the critter push forward instead of pulling back. However, this is rarely the case. Most animals when caught will tend to pull back and continue to do so. They do not understand that the harder they pull the tighter the snare will get. The looser set up I prefer to use on suspension type traps. These will hold the animal off the ground keeping the snare tight around the neck. 
     These types of traps can be used on a variety of game; so many in fact that the list is limitless. The larger your prey the larger your snare will need to be. Do not expect a 38 lb capacity wire to hold a 200 lb deer; it is not going to happen. Depending on your area, you may have a variety of game to trap. You may even have the opportunity to trap alligators, otters, or even beavers. These are very strong creatures and heavier gauge traps should be used. As always, use extreme caution when stetting and checking these traps. 
     If the animal is still alive when you get to it can be dangerous. Keep in mind everything will fight for its life. This is no different from a coon or even a squirrel caught in a snare. The quickest way I have dispatched the animal and in my opinion, the safest is to use a club and hit them in the back of the head at the base of the skull. This will usually do the trick it is fast and painless. Never try to handle a wounded animal let alone one that has been caught in your snare. This would be foolish to attempt before dispatching them first. I have seen people grab squirrels and get chewed and clawed up so fast they did not even know what got a hold of them. I could imagine what a hefty coon could do.
 
   
 
     In the above photos is an example of using a stick to create the loop for a snare. I used a larger diameter stick for the demonstration at around 3/8th of an inch but it gives a very clear picture of how this is done. Notice the photo on the right, to hold the wire open I had to add a bend to support the loop. This will aid in holding the snare open while it is set.
     Now it is time to make the trigger. The trigger is used with a "spring" system usually a branch or a sapling to apply force in the opposite direction that the animal is pulling. This makes the snare more effective ensuring the noose will stay tight. I have improvised the spring pole or twitch up with a fiberglass tent pole. This works very well and is very strong; it is also well suited for trap making. With all the different variations of this trap, I find it to be one of the most versatile that a person can add to their arsenal of trapping knowledge. Knowing this simple trigger set up can actually add hundreds of different set ups and can be adapted to any terrain. I have read a lot about different traps and triggers to get the job done. Some of which; are in my opinion excessively complicated and time consuming to construct. In fact, some are so complicated I can carve and set up ten of these simple snares for time it takes to make one complex trap system.
     When making this trigger any kind of wood can be used as long as it is not too rotted or can otherwise hold together when the trap is set up. I personally prefer to use green wood for this trigger. I simply remove a single branch from a tree and begin to carve the trap trigger. 
 
  
 
     Above is a photo of the trigger peg. This was cut eight to ten inches in length, sharpened at the tip; the sharpened end is driven into the ground. A notch was carved into top of the stick to accommodate the second part of the trigger. 
 
 
 
     I call this the toggle peg. This when tripped will disengage from the trigger peg and will stay connected to the snare and the "spring". A notch was carved in the base to fit the notch in the trigger peg. Two grooves were carved into one end to prevent the snare wire or cord from slipping. Another groove was caved just above the notch in which the snare will be connected. This makes the trigger sensitive. When the animal tugs on the snare, the toggle will slip out of the notch carved into the trigger peg.
    This is a very sensitive trigger to use and will work for a variety of traps. Later in this section I will cover the rolling snare the spring pole snare, both I use the same trigger set. Keep in mind there are millions of ways to skin a cat. I use the methods I am comfortable with and what I know works for the particular traps I set. I find this to be quick and easy, I do not want to fool around with complicated and highly involved trigger systems. Keep it as simple as possible. This will ensure you can set several traps in a decent timeframe.
 
  
 
     Above is the completed trigger mechanism. White cord was used to demonstrate the trap for visual purposes. The snare line is attached to the bottom groove and the spring line is attached to the top groove. There are several ways that this trap trigger can be used. Using this trigger with a spring pole or with a branch pulled down and secured with cord, or even wire next to river or creek can catch fish. Using this set up as a bank line will give the advantage of knowing that something has gone after your bait. When the fish goes for the bait and separated the trigger the pole or branch will snap back setting the hook. Sounds great in theory but in practice it does not mean you will have dinner just because the trap is sprung. 
     This is one of the most versatile triggers I have used. I prefer to keep the amount of triggers I use to a minimum. If they work, they work and if they have more than one use that is even better. Adding these types of triggers to your trapping knowledge will simplify your trapping needs should you ever need to rely on them.
  
 
     The photo above is a close up of the notches, notice how they fit together. Notice the wedge shape carved out of the top of the peg and the bottom of the toggle. This is so the two will fit together. If this is not done, the notches will not fit properly together and could cause injury while the trap is being set. This trigger is sensitive!
     Now we look at setting the actual snare. As I have mentioned before these are best if set in game trails. I will keep saying this periodically because it is important. When supporting your loop I have used several different methods. My favorite is the most simple. I prefer to split a couple of support sticks to hold the loop open and in place. These are then sharpened to points and driven into the ground. The force of the critter being hung up will free them from the sticks. Generally, I do not like to set the loop on a couple of forked twigs or on top of a couple of sticks. The reason I do not like this is that when the animal passes through they can simply knock it off; if it is held in place with two split ticks this cannot happen. It will also hold in place allowing the animal to pass through until they reach the shoulder or the front feet. This is where the snare will tighten and come free snagging the critter.  
 
The Rolling Snare
 
  
 
     The rolling Snare is used in game trails to catch a variety of prey. This snare was set up with cord in the middle of a trail. The trigger is set off to the side and hidden. The trail was made into a bottleneck to force the animal through the opening with the snare in the middle. Animals will naturally take the easiest path. Instead of fighting to go through the brush and sticks, they will be funneled through the opening that contains the snare. This is called a game fence. This allows you to make a barrier for food animals to funnel them to where you want them. It does not have to be pretty! The more sporadic you can make it the better. Nature is not symmetrical, things that are manmade are. Also the human smell can be smelled on the game fence as well. Cover it with smoke or with earth as mentioned earlier.  
 
  
 
     This is a close up of the snare. The loop supported with two sticks, both at the opening and held a few inches from the ground. Understand I am in a desert; most animals are very small here. The ends of these are split to better hold the snare open and in place. The support steaks are not driven into the ground. They are pressed in gently. This will allow them to release the snare. The loop is also big enough to allow my fist to pass through the center without disturbing the trap itself.  
 
The Dead Lift Fulcrum Snare
 
     The next trap I have learned from a book called Six Ways in Twelve Ways Out. Many traps I find in books I try not to even bother with due to their complexity and that they simply just do not work. However, in the case of this one I had to try it. The construction is simple, it is straight forward, and it works with a snare. Knowing that snares work and have worked for thousands of years tells me this particular trap will work. I did not set this trap up exactly the way it was set in the book. I veered from the course just a little. 
     The trap trigger I wrote about with the previous trap is my favorite trigger system. I have used it for sometime therefore I know it works. By adding this trigger set to this snare, I find a marriage of a beautiful combination. This has allowed me to set this snare on uneven terrain with greater ease. I can set this trap anywhere even on the side of a hill without messing around with many of the materials in the area. The less disturbance the better off and the more chances I have to get a meal.
 
  
 
     In the photo, you can see the simplicity of this trap. It is a forked stick driven into the ground to support the lever or the "crane". There is a heavy counter weight lashed to the end of the crane to create the counter balance and lift the opposite end when the trap is sprung. The trigger set is tied to the opposite end of the lever. This will catch and hold the counter weight in the air. 
     The first time I set this trap, I was under the impression that the animal will simply knock the crane off the post. I later found that even if the trap comes apart it would not go far if anywhere at all. The weight is heavy enough to hold many animals in place. If they are strong enough to move it, the crane will be hung up on brush, trees, or other rocks. Based on my personal experience with this trap it is effective and can be set up in many different ways. Having this kind of versatility for a trap set up is very important in my opinion. You may be in an area that has a lack of materials to build a particular trap. Being able to improvise parts and set the same trap up in a slightly different way could mean the difference between eating and going hungry.
 
  
 
     This is a close up of the trigger set up. I used copper wire for the snare, this was several strands twisted together to make the snare wire. This particular trigger set up is very sensitive and any movement from any direction will cause it to disengage. The line that secures the trigger the crane can be shortened as well depending on your needs.  
 
  
 
     This is a photo of the loop. I suspended the open snare with a simple split stick that was pushed into the ground just enough to keep it supported. When my dinner passes through the loop, it will begin to tighten. The split stick will let go of the noose and the trap is now doing what it is meant to do. Should the split stick hold on the snare; since it is pushed into the ground just enough to support the loop it will give way. This will make almost like a fail-safe making the trap just that much more effective. 
 
  
 
 
     This is a different type of trigger for the Dead Lift Snare. In the photo is a "Y" branch from a juniper tree that I carved and drove into the ground; its purpose is to hold the lever in place until the critter pulls it free. This will also cause the critter to be lifted into the air instead of being held in place like the previous variation of this trap. While driving any kind of trigger into the ground use care, you can easily snap your trap set.
              
  
 
     This is a view from the lever looking down at the trigger set. You can see how the peg holds the lever in place. This trigger is sensitive and will release when critter pulls on the snare. I have found this to be a very good set up and it is one of my preferred methods for catching food. Learning this trap set up can be a little difficult at first. The trick to it is not to pin the lever to the ground but to allow the trigger pin to hold the lever in place with friction. All it will take is a slight tug and you have protein. The dead lift fulcrum snare can be adapted for fishing applications as when using this trigger. The lever can be used as an improvised fishing pole. By securing some bank line or even monofilament to the trigger system when the fish takes the bait the trigger will release setting the hook. Since the lever is counter weighted, it will hold the pole in place letting you know there is a possible fish on the line. Several of these can be set up on the bank of a water source at any given time to catch fish. I found this to be one of the most versatile traps I have ever seen. This one is well worth being put into your survival plan.
     Growing up with a very close friend of mine, we would set several of these although variations, alongside the banks of the Poteau River. In many cases, we would have something on the first line after setting the last. Sometimes we would allow the traps to sit over night and check them in the morning. These are safe to leave out because there is nothing to fall or stab anyone. On occasion, however someone would beat us to our catch. We would find our lines on the bank with no bait and no fish.
 
Walking stick uses
 
     When I am out in the wilderness, I use a walking stick. Why? There are several reasons. The first is because it will give me a third leg and extra balance while hiking on slopes. This gives me three points of contact at all times. A walking stick also gives me the ability to turn rocks or logs to see if there are any surprises waiting for me before I pass. I can also effectively lift vegetation and probe the scrub brush. This is very important to be safe when it comes to rattlesnakes hiding in the midday heat. In cooler times of the day like early morning or dusk, I can easily move a rattler out of my path. I do not recommend that you try this unless you are skilled at handling venomous snakes. Lastly, a walking stick will suffice as a digging stick to dig for water, roots, bulbs, and a place to use the bathroom. 
      One of my walking sticks is made from willow, has cord wrapped around the top and midsection to aid with grip, and gives me extra cord at hand. The other walking stick I will use is around 7 feet tall and has a Cold Steel Bushman attached to it. I have lovingly named it the Bushman Spear. I use this just before and during monsoon season in the Sonoran Desert. It gives me a lot of extra reach for cutting Saguaro cactus fruit off the cactus. I have some friends that have ranch land in the Sonoran desert, do not harvest saguaro fruit on Government or public land without a permit. It will land you in some hot water.   
     The Bushman Spear as well as other walking sticks will offer a line of self-defense from larger animals like Javalina and mountain lions. I am yet to have any issues with these animals and I would sincerely hate to be armed with just a spear or walking stick. It will help and is better than nothing.
     If this seemed a little out of place in the book look at the previous trap very closely. Having a walking stick on hand will give you one more lever for your snare sets. This one item can take a lot of time off your trap making by having pre prepared material on hand. As noted above there are reasons to have a walking stick. Safety is one of the best reasons, however thinking just a little to the right of box we can have that extra item available when we need it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 5 Chapter 4
Bait and Dead Falls
 
 
     When it comes to bait I have tried many things. Among these, there is the best in the field, peanut butter. This stuff just draws them in. Most of the time; it is possible that we will have some kind of food with us that will fit the bill. Granola, corn chips, power bars, candy bars, or even some dehydrated or freeze dried foods. It does not take much to bait a trap in the first place.
      Later I will discuss a bait stick variation. This is where I split bait stick of the figure four dead fall and the Paiute. This is done to make the bait stay on the bait stick. The bait can be chewed into the bait stick or the split opened up and placed inside of it. Whatever you may be carrying; that you choose to use for bait chew it up before you bait the stick. I have found that will increase the smell of the bait by breaking it up and exposing fresher inside food.
 
  
 
     In the above photo, I am crushing a cooked crayfish to bait a trap. This will work on dead falls, baited snares, fish and crayfish traps. The best way to lure in your dinner using this natural bait is to cook it up. Either boil or roast the bait. This will increase the smell it will give off and really entice the critters. Think of it like this, smell a raw steak, you will notice it does smell. Now take that same steak and cook it, it will smell more appetizing. It is that same with other animals. Most of which that will be trapped are scavengers. They will run around looking for scraps left behind by other animals and people. Add the smell of cooked crayfish, grasshoppers, scorpions, or even the entrails of a previous kill and you may just see them fighting over the bait.    
     With rabbits and other herbivores, it is best to try to snare them on a game trail. Using deadfalls is rather ineffective on them. Baiting them is a little more difficult than one may think. I have read in several books that you can in fact bait them with natural vegetation; I am yet to get this to work with anything other than cactus fruit and acorns. My thoughts on this are if the herbivore comes across grasses, leaves, and other herbatious plant matter he may just pass it up. Think more about the things they will eat to build fat or other high-energy foods. The sweet cactus fruit from the saguaro or the prickly pear are just right for the herbivores diet. These are loaded with sugars and other nutrients that are vital for energy. Knowing what times of year produce the most sought after food sources will greatly increase your trapping skills. In the past, I have found these protected inside the cactus during the winter. I have also baited traps with Christmas cholla. These fruits can be found year round if located in a protected area.  
     Another tidbit on natural found bait is using nuts from the hickory, walnut, mesquite, Palo Verdy, various grass seeds, or even acorns. In the past, I have leeched acorns and made a type of gruel. Once this was cooked up you could spare a little to put on to a bait stick. Try gathering acorns and placing those in and around snares. Many prey animals like squirrels will collect these as a food to get them though the winter. Walnuts and hickory nuts can be ground into a peanut butter consistency and used much the same way. These can be boiled or simply roasted on a flat stone. I have also baited snares with apples, pears, raisins, and other fruit. This is different and will raise some curiosity to what that wonderful smell is.
The figure Four
 
  
 
   Deadfall traps are over ten thousand years old. They have been found in the dwellings of Paleo Indians. We know that they were used to aid in the procurement of food but not the exact origin of these traps. They are used primarily for catching rodents and other small game. Before you go off and start knocking the tastiness of rodents let me tell you they are actually good. You must be careful during cleaning because they carry plague and Hantavirus in most parts of the country, they can be safely cleaned and eaten. They are high in protein and when the bones are eaten, you get a good dose of calcium. The lungs, liver, and heart can be added to soups and stews for an added nutritional boost. The intestines should be burned or buried due to possible contact with their excrement.
    The figure four is the most common dead fall used. It got its name because it resembles the number four. Its purpose is to suspend a large rock or log and by using a baited stick as a trigger, when tripped the weight of the object falls on your prey killing it. There is in my opinion one major drawback to this trap, the trigger is the bait stick and is not as sensitive as the friction fit Paiute deadfall. It is tough to get right and it takes a lot of time to get several of them made up. Another drawback I see with the fig 4 is if you are using stone tools, it is even more difficult to make. Making this trap requires the right tools or it is almost impossible to build in any kind of decent period.   
    When setting any of the dead falls it is important to hide the human scent with earth or smoke. All animals are naturally weary of the human scent. Look for highly used game trails or dens and take advantage of these locations. Be extra careful not to disturb the trail too much as the prey will be weary of such changes. Find a rock that is flat on the bottom and weighing around ten or so pounds. Check the rock to make sure there will be no rocking or wobbling when the trap is set. You can make the stone level with other smaller rocks to stabilize it in place. If there are no large rocks to accommodate your needs a lighter rock can be used with the addition of more rocks balanced on top. Do not try to set any deadfalls on an incline. This can affect the efficiency of the trap and it can be a serious pain to try to accomplish. 
    What kind of animals are dead falls used for? In the southwest, I have found that these are best used for catching rodents. These include pack rats, squirrels, and mice are the most common. These will sustain you in a wilderness situation. Care must be taken if you plan to feast on rodents. They can carry plague as well as a series of other diseases. I find it easier to burn off the hair to do away with any possible fleas and other types of parasites. 
    Once the hair is burned off, you can then safely open the stomach cavity. Be careful not to hit the stomach, liver, intestines, and bladder. If these are punctured or cut, they will ruin the meat. Once inside the stomach cavity remove the intestines, bladder, and stomach. As stated before burn or bury these. The large intestine will be attached to the rectum of the rodent. This can be removed by simply cutting though the pelvic bone from between the legs. 
    In the photos below, I will cover the specifics of the figure four trap. Each photo is set up to show the various notches and components of the trap.
 
      
 
     At left is a close up of the post. Notice the tip and center notch. On the right is full a view of the lever stick.
  
 
Close up view of the notch at the top of the lever.
 
  
 
View of the end notch of the lever.
 
     
 
     Left: close up of the sharpened point of the bait stick. Center: Close up of the center notch of bait stick. Right: close up view of the end notch on the bait stick.
 
  
 
This photo shows the full view of the bait stick.
     Lay the sticks on the ground in the shape of the number four. Starting with the post cut the top on both sides into a point that resembles a flat tipped screwdriver; this will support the lever stick. Make the center of the vertical stick square on three adjoining sides; this will support the bait stick. 
     Next take the lever stick, about the width of three fingers from the top cut a notch. This distance is to ensure that the weight falls clear of the post. Make sure that the notch on the lever and tip of the post lock together neatly. At the end of the lever stick make the same cut you made at the tip of the vertical post. 
    Then take the bait stick and sharpen the end into a point to hold the bait. Make a square notch halfway so that the vertical stick will join and not slide off the squared center of the post. Holding the two together, make a notch close to the end on the topside. This is so the tip of the lever stick will fit cleanly into it. Make sure to bait the stick before setting the trap.
     When setting the figure four dead fall I find it easier to stand the post on a flat rock or piece of wood. Do not stick it into the ground, this will not allow the lever to kick the post out from under the rock as it falls. First place the lever on top while holding the rock or log in the other hand. While releasing the weight hold downward pressure on the lever making it much easier to place the bait stick in position. Once the baited stick is in place hold it and line up the notches, and then slowly release both hands. The trap automatically locks its self into place. This is a simple trap to construct, although I do suggest practicing before the actual survival situation is rearing its ugly face. 
Bait Stick Variation
 
     Another way to make the bait stick more affective is to split the sharpened tip down the center about an inch to two inches. This allows the bait to hold more firmly. The animal must chew and bite at the stick to get at the bait guaranteeing that the animal will not just steal the bait off the tip. The prey must work harder to get the bait making it more likely that he will set off the trap.
     The trigger of the figure four is sensitive but not as sensitive as the following trap the Paiute dead fall. For this reason this is a better bait stick, rodents do not just chew their food they will also hold onto it. The rodent will hold and chew at the same time forcing it to put added weight and movement on the trigger system. 
 
   
 
     This added trick makes the dead fall that much more affective. On the left, you can see the small split made to the tip. On the right is a baited stick. Not only is the bait on the outside tip it is also inside the crack held firmly in place. Any added feature you can think of to add to a project can make a big difference in the effectiveness of the finished tool.  
 
Paiute Dead Fall
 
    The Paiute dead fall is my favorite trap to build. It is a little more difficult to set and requires you to either carry or make cordage to complete. This is another example of a primitive trap. They have found the remnants of these traps in ancient ruins of the Great Basin Paiute. This trap like the figure four is designed for smaller quarry such as rodents. The added advantage of this trap is the configuration of the trigger and bait stick make this trap very sensitive.  
     Before you begin to build this trap ask yourself what you intend to catch with it. This is extremely important; you need to build the trap to accommodate game in your area. Do not build the trap with the fall at such an angle that the rock or log has to take time to build momentum. Do not build it so small that the trap is ineffective and just injures the prey. I find that a finished height of thirty to thirty five centimeters is efficient for just about any small query in my area. 
     You also need to think about the placement, shape, and size of the rock you intend to use. Find a relatively round rock that is flat on the bottom weighing around twenty five to thirty two pounds. This will ensure that there is enough force behind the falling rock to kill your prey as quickly and humanely as possible. Make sure you can stabilize the rear of the stone so it will not rock but sit level and steady. You can use other stones at the rear of the stone to keep it steady as well as under one corner or the other to prevent wobbling. The bottom of the rock is best flat and rough to allow friction to hold the bait stick in place. If the rock has a smooth bottom you can rough it up by 'pecking" with another stone to create a rough spot for the bait stick. 
 
  
 
    To build this trap, find a good strong and dry stick about a half inch in diameter and about twenty four to twenty six centimeters long. Make sure you use dry dead wood as wet green wood may bend and flex under the weight of the rock. Carve the tip at the top on both sides to resemble a flat tip screwdriver. 
     Next find a stick about as half long as your forearm and make a notch three to four fingers width from the end. On the other end cut a notch all the way around the lever to tie your cordage and to keep it from slipping. Cut your cordage from seven to twelve inches long if the cord is too long simply cut it to length while fitting the trap. 
 
   
 
     The above photos show the construction of the lever. Notice the notch at left, this allows the lever to rest on top of the post. At right is the end of the lever with the cord tied to it. The lever was grooved all the way around to prevent the cord from slipping. In this demonstration, I used natural yucca cord. 
 
                                                   
 
     Next find a stick and cut it as long as your index finger. This will be your trigger, tie one end of the cord to the center of the trigger. You may also cut a notch all the around to keep the cord from slipping. At this time you may begin to test fit your trap and make the proper adjustments to the sizes and lengths. 
     Now it is time to make and size your bait stick. The bait stick is the main part of the trigger and is very touchy. It should block the trigger pin from moving and apply pressure against the rock or fall to hold it's self into place. After trimming to fit, reassemble the trap for fine-tuning. Be sure to bait the stick before setting the trap. Push the stick through the bait to the center of the stick. This will ensure the animal has to pull on the baited stick to take the food. This will also ensure the prey is under the center of the rock allowing it to have enough distance for the rock to fall. 
 
  
 
    Full view of what the trap should look like when set. Notice the post and how far out from under the rock it is place. This is important to ensure the rock will land flat on the ground after the lever kicks it out of the way. In some cases, you can put a thin piece of wood under the fall or a flat rock to ensure a hard surface for the dead fall to hit. I also split the end of the bait stick to allow for a little more friction on the fall. 
     One of my favorite things to do to the bait stick of the Paiute deadfall is to make the critter have to work at the bait stick to get the bait. The harder they have to work the more likely it is that the trap will be set off. This will make the chances of a kill and ultimately a meal that much greater. Knowing that the bait stick is simply a stick; and that most people will simply skewer the bait onto the stick; we can begin to think a little harder on the principal of the idea. By simply skewering the bait on the stick, we actually end up using more bait than is needed. There is also the slight possibility that the critter can simply chew the bait off without setting off the trap. It happens all the time with mousetraps. These little guys can be smart at times.     
 
  
 
     Above I am preparing my favorite type of bait stick for the Paiute. It is the same principal as the split end of the figure 4. You can split closer to the center of the stick or closer to the fall depending on where you place the kill. By doing this you can simply hold open the split and place the bait inside the bait stick. The pressure of the split holding the bait in place will make the critter have to work at the bait. This in turn will dislodge the stick causing the trap to fall smashing the critter. Dinner is served!  
 
The Fenced Paiute
 
     I first demonstrated this variation of the Paiute deadfall in a video for YouTube. The principal works on the natural tendency of the animal to take the easiest way. Instead of going through the brush the will go around. It is the same as you or I; we will tend to find the easiest way around an obstacle. With the fenced Paiute, this will ensure that you can put the critter right where you want him. Inside the fence is the bait stick, positioning the opening of the fence will guide dinner right to the bait. Once the trap is tripped with the proper positioning of the fence, the rock will come down and hit him in just the right spot. 
 
  
 
      In the photo above, I fenced in the Paiute deadfall. Notice the opening on the bait stick side of the trap. The opening is wide enough to be inviting for an easy meal. With this set up and by using the split bait stick this would be a sure kill. 
      On one camping trip, I tested just how long it would take me to set 10 to 15 traps. We tried the figure 4 and the Paiute. This included making all the components, scouting the place to set them, and then finally taking the time on each one to set it up. I found it took several hours with the figure 4. I found that with the Paiute it was much quicker and is the simplest to construct, taking around 5 to 8 minutes each. This included making the split bait stick. The initial trial with the Paiute dead fall shaved a lot of time off the trapping test being conducted. As with both sets of traps, scouting a good place to set them took the longest. In each location we had to find the right flat rock to use. In some cases, we had to find it on the way to a spot and carry it with us. This experiment actually made up my mind on which trap I actually preferred. The Paiute dead fall by far was faster to make and easier for me to set. Many people out there will tell you that the Paiute is the hardest trap to set for a variety of reasons. I personally really enjoy showing many of them just how easy it is. The only drawback that could take more time on this trap is the fact that it takes cord to construct. If you do not have the cord on hand, you will have to make it.     
 
The Promontory Peg
 
    This is one of my favorite deadfall traps to make. It is made from a single stick and was used by several native tribes of the southwest region of the U.S. discovered in Promontory Utah and brought to light by George Michaud. Since I have learned of this trap, I have worked with it several times with great results. 
 
  
 
     Above is a photo of the Promontory peg in use. It looks like a stick propping up a rock. As we start to look closer at this particular trap, you will see it is a lot more complex than that. I have had many discussions with some very close friends about this trap and its construction. The best way we see to build it is with stone tools. Right off the bat is gives the perfect cut. This even makes the angles just right with no adjustments. I have tried to make this trap using a small folding saw and found I needed to really ruff up the ends on a stone to get it release properly. In short, a modern tool WILL make this take a lot longer to make and set up.
 
  
 
     Above is the stone saw that I had made for making traps and cutting other materials while in the field. This stone tool makes this trap simple and straightforward. The wood I prefer to use for the construction of this trap is seep willow. It has a pithy type center and is great for use in many primitive projects. The cut is started roughly 1 inch from the edge of the stick. As you cut, you will notice there is an angle that is naturally occurring. This is important and do not try to compensate, just let it cut. It is making a 25-degree cut, which is crucial for this trap. 
    The length of the stick you choose is entirely up to you. Once you make all your cuts it can be trimmed up to the proper size. There is a series of three cuts that will be made each one will be half way through the stick one on each side about an inch from the end. The third cut you will need to roll the stick the opposite side. Make your final cut in the center of the stick with the stone tool. After this it can be slightly tricky, but if you are careful, it will work beautifully. I will hold the stick with both hands, place my thumbs in the middle on the center cut, and carefully bend the ends downward. You will notice the wood splitting down the center towards the center cut. As these pop off you actually have two triggers from one stick.  
 
  
 
     The above photo shows the split stick after all the cuts are made. The long stick under the two pieces will end up being your support post. All of these pieces can now be trimmed to shape; I like to sharpen the ends of the two triggers. This will allow the bait to be healed in place. However, I have found that these do not need to be sharpened. The bait can in fact be placed in between the post and bait stick. This makes the critter have to literally chew or pry the two pieces apart.  
 
  
 
     In the above photo, you can see how the post and bait stick fit together. By placing the bait between the two pieces, you can see how this trap would easily come apart. One thing I have found that if the trap is too rigid or will not trip and if the bait is put between the two sticks the critter will just sit and literally chew the trap in half to get at the bait. This trap will kill the critter, plain and simple.
 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 5 Chapter 5
Fish and Crayfish Trap
 
 
     This particular trap is set up for the capture of fish and crayfish.  This basket trap allows the prey to enter but not leave. It is built in a cone shape and is based on an Ancient Maidu, Miwok, and Wintun fish trap. Although it is a smaller version of this trap, its design is very similar. 
 
  
 
     This trap works very well for crayfish. They will crawl into the opening to get to the bait, stay there, and eat allowing you to pick them up inside the trap. It is made with willow and Jerusalem artichoke stalks lashed together with the bark of the willow. Start by cutting sections of willow, wild sunflower, Jerusalem artichokes, or any other straight stalks, branches, or saplings. Use material that is about as big around as a pencil and about three feet long. Strip off the bark or any outer peel and set it aside to be used as lashing material for use on this trap.
 
  
 
     By using smaller saplings or vines you can make the rings in which the ribs will be attached. Use the lashing material to lash the ring together. You will need three of these rings each one progressively smaller than the next. Lash the ribs to the outside of the ring and continue all the way around. Once the ribs are all attached, begin weaving the next ring a few inches below the first. You should insert the ring over the first rib and under the next lashing them in place as you go. Once this is completed, lash the bottom of the trap together with the bark lashing material making the whole trap into a cone. At this point, it is time to install the final ring. This ring is woven in the same way, over then under then lashed in place as you go. The trap is now complete and can be baited then used. 
 
   
 
     The photo at left shows a close up of the first ring and the ribs being installed and lashed in place. The photo at right shows the completed rings and ribs.
 
   
 
    At left is a photo of the completed trap for size comparison next to a walking stick. At right is the basket trap in use. This trap does not have to be totally submerged in order to work. If the trap is used in deeper water stones can be lashed in place to hold it to the bottom. A length of cord can be made to anchor the trap to the bank. In addition to this, a smaller cone can be made to fit inside the opening of the trap to prevent the crayfish from getting out when catching large quantities. Long grasses can be affixed to the outside to help close it off. 
 
  
 
     Above is a photo of the baited trap, in this case a hot dog, with a crayfish inside. At the time of construction, this trap caught around forty crayfish. We would pull 10 to 15 crayfish out at a time. The smaller crayfish could escape and the large ones were caught. In about two hours, we had quite a feast.
 
Plastic Bottle Crayfish Trap
 
     I will cover two traps in this section. A friend named David Fairchild while on a camping trip made a very simple yet small bottle trap. We found a PowerAde bottle on the ground. My friend was looking at the two upper grooves in the bottle. What happened next was cool.
     We cut in the center of the lower groove to remove the top of the bottle. He turned it upside down and made a couple of relief cuts to allow the two pieces to fit one inside the other. Once they were placed together, they made a snap sound. They locked themselves together. The fit is strong as well; it takes a little force to pop them apart again. This makes a very nice funnel that is placed in the center of the bottle and does not allow the crayfish to swim out again. 
 
  
 
   Above is an example of the PowerAde bottle trap. This photo focuses on the cut and the groove that the funnel will "snap" into place.  It looks small but do not let that fool you; we ate for an entire weekend with one of these traps. In one hour, we were able to gather well over 30 crayfish in the area were we camped.  
 
  
 
     The above photo is just one haul of 12 crayfish. After three trap settings, we were able to have a good meal that night. By being able to pop the top off the trap this makes it easy to put in a weight, in this case we used a rock to hold the trap on the bottom of the water source. This also makes it very simple to pour the crayfish into a cooking vessel. 
     The next bottle trap I am going to discuss is the two-liter bottle trap. This is a little different from some that have been mentioned in the past. For this one you need two bottles one for the actual trap body and one to form a sleeve to fit over the trap itself. However if you do not have two bottles I have in the past covered the hole with a sheet of bark, aluminum or tin can. I have even seen it done with a woven mat. Holes can be cut into the material and lashed in place.  
 
  
 
     To start this trap cut the top off one of the two-liter bottles just below the beginning of the curve. This will make the funnel for the trap to allow the crawfish to crawl in but not out. 
     Next cut off the lid section; I find that a silver dollar sized hole is perfect for this trap. This will allow the larger crayfish to crawl inside the trap. Some have some large pinchers. This hole will also accommodate for this. 
     Next place in the funnel upside down inside the opening of the two liter bottle and mark some areas to cut small holes. This will make it easier to lace the funnel into the bottle. This is easily done with the awl on a multi tool, a heated piece of wire that can be found, or even a small stick with an ember on the end. If you use the stick, you will need to relight the end each time. A broken piece of bone can also make a good needle to poke the hole for the lacing on the trap.
     The next step is to cut a fist-sized hole in the side of the bottle. This is done to keep from having to pull the laces out of the funnel each time you need to empty the trap. This also makes it much easier to place the stone weight inside the trap. This is needed to keep the trap in place and to keep it submerged under the water. I also like to tie on a piece of cord to the top of the trap to allow for easy retrieval and to keep me from wading. Why get wet if you do not have to.  
 
  
 
   The above photo is an example of the installed funnel with the hole cut into the side of the bottle. 
 
  
 
     The next step is to cut the top and bottom off the second two-liter bottle. This will form the cover for the hole. Naturally, it will not just fit over the bottle. You will need to split it down the middle on one side. I will then poke six holes in the sleeve. Make them as close to the same distance apart as you can and on each side of the cut. Add some cord to the holes and slide it on to the bottle. Synch up your cord and tie it, keep it loose enough that it will stay in place but slide up or down with a little pressure. 
     If you do not have another two liter bottle to use there are ways to improvise this. A larger number five tin can cut to fit the hole then laced in place. This is done much the same way as the second two-liter bottle. By making cordage you can weave a mat to caver the hole as well. Any type of long grass can also be used to wave a cover. I have used a sheet of bark or even a soda can to make the sleeve for this trap. It just takes a little ingenuity to solve any problem.
     Now what to use as bait. First off, these things will eat anything. I have used many kinds of baits for these tasty creatures. For one if bait is scarce just catch one and boil it or roast it. Then crush it between two stones and toss it into the trap. I have caught thousands this way. They will go after flavored rice, bouillon cubes, candy, nuts, just about anything you can think of that can be eaten. Growing up in Oklahoma, we would use hot dogs, livers, and if we trapped anything, we would use the entrails. These are some hungry little devils.
 
  
 
     This is an example of the sleeve that has been slid down to gain access to the crayfish inside. At any given time, I have caught up to 30 crayfish in one trap. These are very high in protein and oils that are needed in a survival situation. Supplemented with some edible bulbs or other carbohydrate and some greens you have a full balanced meal. These can be boiled or roasted on sticks. 
     Crayfish should not be passed up in a wilderness situation or in daily life for that matter. They are very tasty and add different twist to any diet. These are on many states "hit" list because they have no natural predators and will destroy habitats for native species of animals and fish. If you catch them, do the environment a favor and eat as many as you can. That is one way to go green!










Section 5 Chapter 6
Tilong Rat Trap
 
 
  
 
    The Tilong Rat trap is a very effective trap from Southeast Asia. It is as effective there as it is here. It has been used for centuries to feed the people of those regions. In short, I know it works! Its primary purpose is to catch rats and other small rodents. This trap can also be adapted to catch fish and other aquatic food sources. The trap is completely self contained and can be made in several different ways. The trap in the photo is made from a tin can that can be found anywhere. It can be improvised with a multitude of natural materials. I have made them out of Agave stalk, coal burned cottonwood logs, and even hollow logs found on the ground. 
     The most versatile part of this trap is the trigger system in my opinion. It can be adapted to any size or situation. The spring can be made by using a series of bundled sticks like a type of bundle bow, a single springy branch, or even a fiberglass tent pole. Cord can be improvised from natural materials. My favorite natural cordage to make this trap from is willow bark. It is easily found in riparian areas and can be peeled in long usable lengths. This trap is simple and effective; it works by strangling the animal inside the container. The prey climbs inside after the bait on the bait stick tripping the spring. This will then hold the animal in place with a loop of cordage held open at the entrance of the container.
 
  
 
     The photo above shows the tap set and ready to go. The trigger stick supports the bait stick until it is tripped. The loop of cord inside the can will be pulled up very quickly by the spring. The spring is embedded into the can with one longer piece protruding through the bottom of the can to act as a stake to hold the trap firmly to the ground. 
 
Trap Variations 
 
    As mentioned before there are several variations of this trap. From several found containers to all natural materials. When making this trap, keep the size of the intended animal in mind this will give you an idea as to how big to make the container and internal loop. I have been asked about the rat chewing the cord and freeing itself. If this trap is constructed properly, it will hold the critter in place very tightly not allowing it to move around. This is important for making this trap effective. The spring must be able to hold tension against the rat inside the container. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 5 Chapter 7
Survival Hunting
 
 
     First off my opinion on hunting in a survival situation is don't, plain and simple. The reason I suggest making hunting implements is for opportunistic kills. Do not go out traipsing around in the desert wasting calories and body fluid for a chance at not scoring a meal. There is no need to give yourself that kind of deficit while trying to conserve these things. In short, let the traps work while you rest in the shade. There is nothing wrong with being a shade expert while in a survival situation in the desert.
     Opportunism comes while scouting for materials or gathering resources. Walking stealthily while doing this can afford you the chance at an easy meal. Being slightly crouched gives you a low profile while in heavy cover like scrub brush. I will usually walk two different ways; one is by stepping heel to toe on the outer edge of my boot wile rolling my foot down to the sole. The other is by stepping very lightly, watching where I place my feet and bringing my foot down on the ball first then rolling my foot slowly to the heel. This will make you much quieter and allow you to hear while moving. 
     Being able to understand the way animals work in the desert is also important for being opportunistic. Water being scarce is a key point to understand. Life in the desert revolves around water. If you find a water hole, stay nearby and pay attention to the tracks left behind by wildlife. Chances are if you found a good water hole there will be an abundance of tracks in the area. These can include deer, elk, peccary, mountain lion, and many more. I have learned that some of the mule deer in my area will move through in the early morning and late in the evening. On occasion, I have seen them just before and right after monsoon rains. By learning patterns, you can ready yourself for an opportunistic kill. Cover your sent, stay low and stay quiet. A deer can be taken with a well-placed shot from a survival bow.  
     Covering your scent is not a challenge in the wilderness. I use two methods at the same time.  The first is smoke from my fire. The other is Earth; these are familiar smells to prey and will not frighten them as badly as the normal human scent. This however is highly debatable in the survival community. Earth makes a very effective camouflage as well. Mix some dirt or clay with water, work it into a paste consistency, and rub it on. Not only will this work as camo but will also aid against insects and the sun.      
 
Atlatl
 
     The Atlatl was the predecessor the bow and arrow. This made hunting with a "spear" much more effective. The Atlatl gave man the upper hand and was the superior firepower of its day. These were used to bring down the Mammoth! These are very accurate and are capable of hurling a dart out to a hundred meters. The earliest these are believed to have been used is 10,000 to 20,000 years ago by early humans. It is very possible that this technology could be much older. The purpose of the atlatl was to increase the amount of force exerted while throwing spears. With the added extension of the arm, you are able to get some power behind your throw. 
     My first experience with an Atlatl was met with headache and some sore arms. In fact, I even tore a rotator cuff while learning how to throw the darts. It can be very painful with all the throwing but so far, it has been worth it. This is an amazing tool and the feeling of being able to use something that is as old as this is unexplainably exciting. This skill really has to be learned and honed before you master it. Until this day, I am only proficient at around 30 to 40 yards. In my opinion that is still good. It is a very fun skill to learn and in some states, it is even legal to hunt with, unfortunately in Arizona that is not the case. Target practice was usually done with bales of hay or with deer decoys. 
     There have been countless articles, books, and research papers written about the atlatl. For this reason, I am not going to get into the physics or the scientific theory on this ancient weapon. In addition, there are many differing opinions on this subject as well. I have a real love for this particular hunting tool so I will give you my personal experience with it. At the same time, I will offer my opinions to certain features and to why I feel they are the way they are through the actual use of the tool. The point of this entire book is not to get into the debates or to get into the scientific end of anything written. These are my thoughts and experiences plain and simple. All I can do is give you an idea as to the workability of these skills. It is up to you to use them and decide for yourself. With that said, please do not take my word for it, go out and learn to do these same skills. 
     Take the time to let the wood season along with the fore shafts and the rest of the darts. Spend the weeks on the carving, shaping, and fine-tuning. The reason is there are no actual shortcuts when it comes to efficiently learning a skill. The respect you gain from making your very own functional atlatl from a tree branch is a huge reward. This is a tool will last forever if it is taken care of. Once you learn this then you will know the ins and outs of using one of these. Then move on the making the darts.
 
  
 
   This is a photo of my finished atlatl, it was hand carved, heated, and bent by hand to achieve the curve I wanted. The only two items on this project that are not natural and handmade is the artificial sinew and the dyed leather thong for finger loops. However, it is real leather yet I did not tan the hide it came from. This was found in a box of scrap leather at home. In this section, I will go over how the actual atlatl was made and some of the various steps I took to complete the project. 
 
  
 
     Above is the 3-foot section of juniper I had selected for my atlatl. I started by shaving off the bark to expose the wood underneath. This section of wood was harvested a couple of years before this. This was done with this very project in mind. In the field, I have found several good workable sections of juniper that were still attached to the tree. These were dead branches and were in good shape. With this being said the 2 years I let the wood season is not entirely necessary. On several occasions, I have also found pieces of oak, Manzanita, and even hackberry that could have made excellent atlatls in the field. 
     The inch and a half thick section took some time to shave down to where I could get the basic shape worked out. Juniper is a great wood to work with and carves very easily with some care. The problem I come across is that is wants to split while you are working it. In addition, if you try to take too much off at a time it will take large shavings that are too deep and can damage the piece. Knowing this I really take my time with the wood. It is well worth the extra time taken. There are also differing opinions on how long the atlatl should be. I cut mine to be the length of my arm from armpit to hand. These can be made longer or shorter. It is up to you to test out what you think will give the best performance.  
 
  
 
    Once I got the rough shape worked out, I smoothed the entire project with a series of stones. These were progressively smoother and smoother. With the rough stones, I was able to remove wood in small amounts while the smoother stones really added the final additions. Once this was completed, I started a fire to get some nice hot coals. I held the atlatl over the hot coals to get the project heated in the areas I wanted to bend. Using a fork in between two trees, I applied pressure to the piece until it cooled and held the desired curve. 
 
  
 
    You can see above the dart in place with the spur. This is a piece of bone that was carved and lashed in place. This gives a contact point and a secure seat for the dart. I have found that the angle of the spur is crucial. While throwing the dart the spur can actually interfere with the release of the dart. This can throw off the accuracy. It is also important to make the dart to fit the spur. This way you can fine-tune the two for a smooth disconnect. Make sure it will hold dart in place while freely moving in all directions with no hang-ups.    
 
  
 
     This is a close up of the spur and the end of the dart. This should be a smooth concaved divot. The end of the dart should also be wrapped with either cord or sinew to prevent it from splitting while being thrown. The spur was then secured with artificial sinew. To aid in securing the spur I used a little bit of pitch glue before lashing it into place. 
     The artificial sinew was wrapped in several places along the entire length of the atlatl this done for functionality as well as looks. One continuous piece of sinew was used to secure the spur, crisscross along the shaft and end with a wrap just above the handle. The handle was also wrapped with artificial sinew. I did this to give a little extra grip to the weapon. This was also used to lash the leather finger loops in place. Keep in mind you do not have to use artificial sinew. You can use real sinew if it is available or even paracord, jute twine, or other natural cordage. 
 
  
 
     In this photo, I am demonstrating my finger loops made from leather. There are several different ways to construct your finger loops for your atlatl. For this particular project, I used some scrap leather, simply cut it to shape, and added finger holes. These were lashed in place with more artificial sinew. The finger loops can be made from a variety of materials. In the past, I have used reverse wrapped jute twine and even paracord. 
     Finger loops are not necessary for an atlatl. I like to add them for extra grip while throwing the darts. I have accidentally thrown the atlatl as well as the dart; this is something I like to avoid while practicing with this weapon.  
 
  
 
     With the dart in place, I am ready to throw. Notice the stone that was lashed to the shaft. There are several differing opinions as to why these were used. From my personal experience I have found that is gives a lot more momentum to your throw. Try making an atlatl without a weight and one with a weight. Use both of them one after the other. You will see that the atlatl with the weight feels heavier while throwing. This gives more force behind the weapon while it is in use. I also find it overcomes the drag from the air that makes an un-weighted atlatl feel a little slow on release. This can also be used to finish the animal. After hitting the animal with the dart the weight or banner, stone be used as a club.  
 
   
 
     Above I am ready to give the dart its first test flight. I place the end of the dart into the spur and hold it in place with my thumb and forefinger, grasping the handle firmly with the rest. I bring my arm up and take aim down range. With a very quick and hard downward swing, the dart launches. The release and the follow through feel great. It almost feels like an extension of your arm. The sound of the flying dart is amazing too. You can hear the absolute power in this weapon. 
 
  
 
     My wife took the above photo. This is the very first dart to leave this atlatl. You can see from the angle of the dart flying down range that the trajectory is good. This particular dart flew accurately for 46 yards, one of my personal best!
 
Atlatl Darts
 
     In this section, I will go over the darts and the dart construction for the atlatl. I for one must say I am particular about the darts I use and how they are made. This started a long time ago when I made my first river cane arrow. These require the use of a hardwood foreshaft. I found these to be excellent in the sense that they are two pieces and if the shaft breaks, you simply make a new one. I like this idea instead of heat strengthening an entire new arrow as well as adding new flights to the shaft. The principal is the same for the cane atlatl darts only on a slightly larger scale. I start out by selecting the straightest sections of Carrizo cane I can find. I will allow them to dry and season indoors for a year or longer. Once they are seasoned I will heat straighten them the exact same way I do with my arrows I mention a little later in the archery section. I cut the dart to around 5 feet 5 inches depending on the cane segments. In some cases, I may end up putting a 1-foot foreshaft on the dart as I did this one. I find however that the shorter the foreshaft the better due to strength and rigidly. I have had great success with foreshafts that are a mere 6 inches in length. 
     The foreshafts are done the same in the same manner as well. For the atlatl, I prefer to use the wood from the hop bush or from the seep willow. Native Americans used these for arrow shafts. Once I tried it, I knew it would be perfect for the atlatl darts. 
 
  
 
     Above is a photo of the flights I added to the atlatl dart. These are several inches long and were cut from dyed chicken feathers. If you are in the field you can use found feathers. Be careful while practicing making these some feathers like those of the hawk and the eagle are illegal to have in your possession. The feathers I used were carefully split in two and lashed into place with artificial sinew. Once they were in place, I trimmed them to shape. I have thrown this dart several times and so far the flights are still hanging on tightly. I did have to carve a small groove in the front of the flights in the Carrizo cane shaft. This was to allow the sinew to hold the flights to the dart shaft. This is not necessary to do but I did it. 
 
  
 
    This is my one-foot foreshaft. The upper segments of this section of cane were too thin so I had to make it a little longer. This really is not a problem; I am not going after large game with this dart. The top of the dart was wrapped with artificial sinew to keep it from splitting when the shaft is inserted or when it hits the target. I also wrapped the base of the foreshaft. This was done to give a tighter seal and keep the foreshaft from slipping in and out should the shaft expand or contract with humidity. The point on this dart is a little larger than one I would use on an arrow shaft. This particular point is a piece of knapped jasper that adds a little extra weight to the dart. When I throw my darts, I like them to be front heavy. This is so the point will hit fist when thrown at an angle at distances.
     Take the time to learn your darts. Not all are the same nor will they fly the same. With the differences in the thicknesses of the cane and the foreshafts, it is impossible to get them all exact. I have found that they can be off as much as a few oz. Also depending on the cane, you choose there will be slight imperfections in the straightness. No matter what you do, you cannot get a cane dart to be very straight. There will be ever so slight bends in the shaft. Some of the darts I have made are rolled in the hand sighted down the shaft and they are straight, however there are slight imperfections. I have found this does not affect the performance by any means but can cause you to have to compensate slightly. Once you learn how each one of your darts will perform you can then go on a hunt with you atlatl.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 5 Chapter 8
Survival Archery
 
 
     In this section, I will cover few of the simplest bows to construct in a survival situation. I will also cover quick arrow construction as well as various hunting points, and how to flight the arrows. I chose these bows due to their simplicity and effectiveness. The material needed can be found anywhere and in some cases it is even carried with you. 
     While in a survival situation hunting is a last resort because of the amount of energy spent while doing so. The idea is to be able to replace lost calories while searching for food or other resources as mentioned earlier. Do not attempt hunting unless you can replace these lost calories. This is why I put such emphasis on trapping. Traps work while you rest, make repairs, find more water, or even make necessary tools and other implements. That being said; do not put too much emphasis on hunting until your traps have paid off. Remember what I said about step foraging at the beginning of this chapter, and yes, you will hear it again. 
 
The single stick bow
 
  
 
     I will start out with the single stick or single stave bow. These are effective hunting tools and most if not all bows can be made into traps for large game. I prefer to use Tamarisk or Salt Cedar for this project although juniper and other hard woods can work. I first found out about making Salt Cedar bows from a living legend while filming a pilot episode for the History Channel. Ron Hood and I were talking about different wood make bows. I was talking about bundle bows, single stave Osage, as well as sinew backed cedar, and juniper. Just before filming, he asked if I had ever used salt cedar as a bow. I told him I never tried that particular wood before. As it turns out, I got a crash course. We were filming a survival challenge show and next up was the trapping segment of the episode. We were to make a bow trap and set it off. Once the bow was made, I felt the draw weight and I was very impressed. It has stuck with me to use that material ever since. 
     When you cut your Tamarisk, you will notice that one end is thicker than the other. I simply shave off the thicker end to get it as close to even all the way as possible. I then make a couple of notches to hold the string in place then tie on the string using a few half hitches. It is that simple! Depending on the type of wood you use you will notice some lag on the limbs at release. This really is no big deal for this particular bow. If done right with a large enough piece of wood we are talking over a 60 lb draw weight. Even with a little lag there is plenty to drop a deer.    
 
 
  
 
      For this particular bow, I carved the limbs using my machete as a drawknife. I left the bark on the backside of the bow. I found that this would add strength and keep the fibers from lifting. If the bark is removed then any tool marks on the wood will cause it to split making it possible for personal injury. When making this bow I had the San Bushman in mind. I wanted a short yet powerful bow that I could use for target practice and small game if I wanted. I was a little overwhelmed when I drew the bow for the first time. The bow is short at around 36 inches and has a draw weight of over 55 lbs. When the string is let go the arrow flies and literally punches the target. At 30 yards, it smacks the target loudly. 
     For both of these bows I found a piece of Salt Cedar that was dead on the tree. The great thing about Salt Cedar is you can also use it while it is green. The wood is very dense and will last a very long time, however I prefer to harvest the wood while it is green and allow it to dry and season before making a bow. For a quick easy bow to use in a wilderness situation you cannot beat this stuff right off the tree. 
 
The Bundle bow
 
     The bundle bow is an effective hunting tool for taking small game. It is, instead of a single stave to form the bow, a bundle of sticks wrapped and tied together. You can use just about any sapling, branch, or stick for this project as long as it isn't rotten, brittle, and is flexible. When looking for material for this bow make sure the saplings or sticks snap back in to place after being bent into an arch. Make sure they do not snap, crack, or split while flexing. Depending on the material you use your draw length on the finished bow may vary. It is important to understand this is not a fiberglass bow and should not be treated as such. Overdrawing this bow can cause severe injury. I suggest practicing the construction of this bow before you are faced with a survival situation to get to know and understand it. If you listen, your bow will tell you everything you need to know about it. As you draw to full draw, you will be able to feel what the bow is telling you. You will also notice the handle will be thicker than the average bow. You will have to compensate for this by aiming a little farther to the left. With some practice, you can become proficient with this hunting tool. 
     Start out by cutting several branches or saplings no bigger than 3/8 to a  of an inch thick. Lay them on the ground and cut them progressively shorter than the next. You will notice the wood will have one end thicker than the other will. Lay them out with the thick end to the narrow end. This allows the stave to be as even and uniform as possible. 
 
  
 
     In the photo above, you can see the sticks laid out each are progressively smaller than the next. At this point, you can begin to bundle them together and the ends with cord to hold them in place. Be sure to seat each stick snugly in place before you wrap them together. This will ensure the bow it tight and will not become loose. To wrap the bow start at the beginning of each run of sticks to keep them in place; work your way down the bow till you reach the middle. This will be where the handle will be. Turn the bow over and repeat the wrapping on that end. Once you get to the middle start wrapping the handle with cord. 
 
  
 
     The photo above is an example of the lashing done on this bow. If no cord is available to build a bow, you can substitute using natural cord. Make sure the cord you make is strong enough to handle the kind of force put out by this bow. I recommend using yucca or agave fibers for the lashings. These two plant fibers are also strong enough to be used as the bowstring. 
 
  
 
     This is a photo of the finished bow. This bow was strung with wax coated poly cord. To string the bow cut or make a length of cord about a foot longer then the bow itself. Wrap one end four times and tie off with a slipknot. Turn the bow over, bend it to a quarter draw, and wrap it four times as well. Tie this end with a slipknot and cut off the excess. You could make the string the same as mentioned in the next section.
 
  
 
     The above photo is an example of the bow being drawn to full draw. This particular bow had a draw weight of around thirty five to thirty eight pounds. Not bad for a bunch of sticks! You can increase the draw weight of the bow by cutting an inch off both sides. This will give three to seven pounds more depending on the bow.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 5 Chapter 9
The Tent Pole Bow
 
 
  
 
    The tent pole bow is a useful hunting tool. It is made from two of the flexible fiberglass poles from a dome tent. Due to its light, draw weight at around 25 lbs it is ideal for taking small game such as rabbits, squirrels, and birds. This is a great way to utilize the parts of a tent and bring out its full potential.
   Start by removing the shock cord that runs through the center of the poles. Set this cord aside for later use in other projects. This project requires three barrels or connectors to complete. Remove one connector from a pole section and place it on the end of one of the poles you will be using for the bow. This gives one of the poles two barrels on each end so you can put the two poles sections together. On one end, carefully flatten the coupling and bend it over on itself. Take extreme care not to crush the fiberglass inside the barrel, this will cause a severe weakening of the bow and can cause injury to the operator. 
 
  
 
     The above photos show the author using a stone to flatten and bend the barrels at the ends of the bow; using a hammer stone works very well for any survival project that would normally call for a hammer. Always make sure you use a large downed branch or a stump for working with a hammer stone. This keeps from damaging the piece you are working on by reducing the shock created. Notice the photo on the right: The barrel has been flattened and bent over itself. The author is making a slight bend in the metal, this will have grooves filed into it to hold the bowstring and keep it from sliding while the bow is in use.
 
  
 
    The photo on the left shows the author filing the grooves into the tip of the bow. You can see the slight curve in the metal made by hitting it with the stone. If you do not have a file, you can substitute the rounded edge of a rock. The photo on the right shows the author cutting a section of cottonwood that will serve as the handle of the bow. The method of cutting is called beaver chewing. This is done by carving a groove all the way around the piece and continuing until the piece can be snapped in half easily. This can be done with just about any size of wood that needs to be cut to a certain length or into sections. You can also use a sharpened stone to cut the wood into sections. Although this will take longer, it is a very effective way to accomplish this task.
 
   
 
   The photo shows the handle section being split into two sections. Notice the stick that is being used to hit the blade to split the wood. Never hit your blade with a stone always use a piece of wood to do this. If you do not have a knife, you can fashion a hand ax made of stone to split the wood. You will also notice I have the piece of wood I am splitting off the side of the log. The reason for this is to give me a more stable platform to work with. The top of the log is rounded making it possible to slip or otherwise be off balance, this can and will cause serious injury. 
 
  
 
     At left the author is demonstrating using a stone to sand the groove and make the finishing touches. A stone can also be used to make the groove in the center if no knife is available. On the right shows a close up of the fitted handle sections covering the center coupling that locks the two poles together. Notice the texture of the wood all the burrs and rough spots have been removed. This will make grip more comfortable and make it easier to cord wrap the handle.
 
  
 
     The left photo shows the handle of the bow and the two poles ready for lashing. At right, the handle is being wrapped tightly to secure and support the two pole sections and keep the center coupling from breaking under the stress of full draw. 
 
   
 
      The left photo shows the cord wrap being finished and the ends tied off. Right shows a close up of the ends of the bow that will hold the string. Notice the slight concave and the grooves that were filed on the edges to the tip. A section of cord was wrapped and secured to the grooves. This will prevent any sharp edges from cutting the string. This is an important adage, the edges of the metal will cut the string when the bow is drawn and fired. This will prevent serious injury or possibly worse.
 
  
 
    The bowstring is made from the waxed poly cord as mentioned before and is leg rolled into a two-ply cord. This doubles the strength of the cord. Natural plant fibers can be processed into cord in this manner as well. When using plant fibers I have found it is best to use yucca or willow bark. This will make a much stronger cord and will hold up under the draw weight of the bow. Fold the length of cord in half. Separate the two strands and roll from the thigh toward the knee. This twists the strands in two directions at once to produce friction on the strands and hold them together when the strands are twisted.
 
  
 
     Once the strands are twisted, hold them in place with the palm of your hand and twist in the opposite direction with the other hand. Repeat this until you have enough cord for your bow. Do not worry about the exact length of the bowstring. You can make it the same length as the bow itself and cut the excess after it is strung.
 
  
 
    Wrap the cord around the tips twice then tie a slipknot in the bowstring. I prefer to use a slipknot or a couple of half hitches because the more you pull the tighter it gets. This will also make it easier to untie later. Turn the bow over and arch the bow to about a quarter draw then tie the string the same way as the other side. The bow is now ready to use. I will cover arrow making later in this chapter. 
     A note about this type of bow; I have been asked several times why not just run the string through the center of the hollow fiberglass pole. The reason is very simple. While I have done this in the past, it was on a different style of bow. I have made bundle bows from three fiberglass tent poles. This overcomes the issue of string lag. When running the bow string through the center on a single stave bow there is a huge issue of string lag. What actually happens while the bow is being flexed the string is being lengthened from inside the bow. While the bow is released, it travels back inside the bow stave causing a slight amount of friction. This has a dramatic effect on the release and the flight of the arrow. By adapting, the connector to accept the string this will eliminate the issue. Also, do not use the shock cord for the bowstring. It is stretchy and will cause string lag. The shock cord is also not strong enough to withstand the draw and release of the bow while in use. This can snap and cause serious injury.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 5 Chapter 10
Making Arrows
 
 
     Now that you have your bow, let us get to the arrows. For this demonstration, I am using seep willow but you can in fact use any thin sapling or branch. The best arrow material for wilderness survival I have found is cattail, river cane, seep willow, and hop bush. I will demonstrate their construction a little later in this chapter.
 
  
 
     Start by selecting the straightest possible shoot of seep willow. Using a discoid blade or very carefully your knife, remove all bark and stems from the arrow shaft. 
     It is important to find as straight of shaft as possible to get the most accuracy you can out of your arrow. It is possible to straighten a crooked arrow shaft. One way is to gently bend the shaft to straighten it. Be as gentle as possible as not to break or weaken the arrow. Simply grasp the arrow with both hands as close to the "crook" as possible. Then apply gentle even pressure until the shaft is straight. This works best on green wood. It will want to return to its original shape so you will have to repeat this a few times until the shaft remains strait.
 
  
 
   Above is an example of shaft straightening; grasping the shaft with both hands and exerting pressure in the opposite direction will straighten the shaft of the arrow. 
 
  
 
     Next, move your hands closer together and apply more gentle pressure to the shaft. This step is easier to break the arrow so be extra careful to feel what you are doing.  
     Next, the shaft must be shaved and cleaned of the remaining bark and other irregularities. This can be done with a knife held perpendicular to the shaft and scraping in one direction until all the bark is gone. If a knife is unavailable, you can use a scraper stone to remove all the bark.  
     The discoid blade works well for removing the bark from the shaft. This will also save the blade of your knife. You could even make a special tool just for this job by pressure flaking the edge of a discoid blade to fit the rounded contours of the arrow shaft. If any of you have ever seen my tent pole bow video I did for YouTube, I cheated. As the talented, Mr. Murphy reared his head while I was filming; I kept breaking the arrows I was trying to straighten. These things will always happen when you are trying to demonstrate something on film. To remedy to problem I found an old telephone pole and pried off a long enough piece to shave down to make my arrow. In the video, if you look at the finished arrow you can tell it is a piece of aged wood. The lengths we go through just to make a video. I mention this to show you that you can make arrows simply out of just about any available material. With some skill, you can really do a neat job. 
     This section was demonstrating using green wood for a very fast arrow that will work in a pinch. This does work and works very well. As I mentioned earlier these will return to its natural shape. This means that all the bends and crooks will be back. This process will need to be repeated until they are sufficiently dry. This is also another reason I removed the bark from the arrow shaft. In the desert, it does not take very long for wood to dry out. Once this is dry the shape will hold. It will also hold long enough to get a meal. To speed the drying process you can hold the shaft over the fire. This will draw out any excess moisture and make it very easy to heat straighten dry arrow shafts.
 
Heat straightening arrow shafts
 
     When using heat from a camp fire to straighten arrow shafts it is important to be as careful as possible not to burn the wood. This will weaken the shaft and it could end up snapping when pressure is applied to it for straightening. A good hot fire is needed to gently heat the wooden shaft and bend it into place. It will straighten very easily with gentle pressure. Even if your arrow looks straight, it will need straightening. 
 
  
 
     Above is a demonstration showing the gentle heating of the arrow shaft in the fire. In this photo, I am actually using a piece of cane to make a two-piece cane arrow. The principal is the same regardless of material.
     By simply holding the arrow in one hand and supporting the end in the other you can roll the arrow shaft almost sighting, as if you were to fire the arrow and see where it needs to be straightened. To do this I gently heat the arrow, I use a cow or deer vertebra as a wrench to apply the needed pressure. If one is not available, you can place it between two large rocks and apply pressure. This works with cane shafts and spears as well.  
 
  
 
     The photo above shows using the vertebra as a shaft wrench to straighten the arrow shaft. Gentle pressure is used to bend the arrow into place. 
 
Hunting Points
 
    There are endless supplies for arrow points in the wilderness. Probably the best and most effective way to make a hunting point is to flint knap one from flint, chert, or even obsidian. Not everyone can make the perfect point by flint knapping nor do they have the patience to learn.    Granted in a survival situation you do not have to have the perfect work of art on the end of your arrow but learning the basics to flint knapping is definitely a plus. In this section, I will not be going in depth on this subject to make you an expert but I will give you the very basics to help    you get started. 
     Flint knapping as well as stone tool making starts with the principal of the Hertzain Cone. This is a term used for the direction the shock wave's travel through a stone and break in a predetermined manner. This happens when the target stone is struck with a hammer stone at an angle less than ninety degrees. All flint Knapping works on this idea. I mentioned the word predetermined for the reason that after you practice the basic principles of flint knapping you can tell exactly where to hit and what the result will be. As a stone is struck with a hammer stone or antler billet, the energy resulting from this impact is transmitted conically. The cone radiates at 120 degrees. This cone is what determines the striking point or platform, the angle in which to strike, and which piece of stone is removed.
     The platform is the surface in which you intend to strike. This must be a strong solid surface. If the platform is weak in anyway the strike will not deliver the necessary cone to cleanly fracture the stone. The platform must also be less than ninety degrees or the shock will be sent too deeply into the stone causing a hinge fracture possibly destroying the piece. Practice these principals on your own and you will begin to see the cone at work. Do not worry about perfection at first. The points do not have to be beautiful to get your dinner. The biggest obstacle is to make sure they are straight and flat. A curved point will affect the performance of your arrow.
     Flint knapping in a survival situation may seem like a waste of time and in many cases it really is. The time spent napping a stone or glass point could be spent on making and setting traps. Having the ability to make a fast arrow point for an opportunistic type of kill while setting or checking those traps would be helpful as well. So how do we decide to take the leap and make a point for the arrow. While sitting around the fire at night when your thoughts are racing through your head or while you think you are hearing every predator in the desert coming after you. What I am saying is things like this can be done when there is nothing else to do. This will keep you busy and keep your mind from wandering. Doing small tasks as if this will also relax you and change your focus. You can probably get a little sleep at this point as well.
     I am a huge fan of quick points and stone tools. I call a lot of archaic points and tools quick. The reason is these tribes were nomadic. They had to make a hunting implement to feed themselves and their families. Many of the points from this period are crude and made quickly and on the spot. I in turn adopted a lot of this mentality into my survival mindset. Being able to replicate these types of tools will give you an edge in any wilderness situation. Simply breaking a stone to make a discoid blade or making serrations in the edge with an antler tool makes a functional usable tool. Look at some of the artifacts found from the archaic period and even those used as far back as Homo Habilus. Simple crude tools are the way to go in a survival situation. There are plenty of resources for them out there and can be made in a matter of seconds with some practice.  
     Take your time and practice these types of skills. I have said this on more than one occasion; this is one of the most difficult skills to learn aside from plants. Everyone has his or her own pace of learning. It took me 5 years in order to turn out a very crude point.  
 
Making a Beer Bottle Point
 
     Every time I go in to the wilderness, it shames me to say that I always find beer bottles. No matter how far out I go there, they are. The good thing is one man's trash is another man's life. Quite literally, in some cases, this left behind trash can be utilized in survival situations to make tools and hunting implements. I really cannot say that enough, this is part of being opportunistic and taking advantage of the things you will come across in the wilderness. On several occasions, I have sat and made all kinds of different tools using glass bottles. The curved pieces of glass on the sides and neck of the bottle do not really make that great of arrow points. They do however make great blades for gutting and preparing fish and other animals caught in traps. 
 
  
 
     Above is my basic knapping kit. It contains two antler billets, two pressure flakers and a piece of leather. I use each tool for a different purpose. The two antler billets are used to reduce the core into a workable piece or just to make cutting blades. The two pressure flakers are used for fine shaping of the tool as well as sharpening a stone blade. The leather is to protect my leg and hands from sharp glass or stone.
     A lot of my flint knapping tools is carried on my person. I have several antler tine necklaces that I will wear all the time. A leather thong to hold them around my neck usually accompanies these. I have many uses for antler tines, they are amazing pressure flakers and they make a decent trap trigger in applications that require a trip line.  
     When using antler pressure flakers you will need to keep them in working order. As you use them, it will round off the tips. These must be re-sharpened to be effective tools. This is especially important for the notching process. If this is not done, it will result in broken points. The best way I have found to repair the tip is to grind it on a stone. As the tip wars down there is a marrow type center. As you reach this material, work the tip on one side of the tine. This will ensure the presser flakers will last longer. 
 
  
 
   The above photo shows an antler billet, an antler pressure flaker, the piece of leather and a broken beer bottle. Knapping with glass can be tricky considering the bottom of the beer bottle is concaved. This means you must support the entire piece in order to work it into a useable cutting tool. In this demonstration, I will show how to utilize the hertzian cone to make a quick, crude, but very effective point.
 
  
 
     I start by using the antler billet to remove all the uneven pieces of bottle. This will also give you a rough shape to work with. Be careful and plan your strikes before you hit the glass. You could end up breaking the entire project. Glass is sharp, be careful and protect your hands.
 
  
 
     After removing the excess glass and achieving a rough shape, I place the leather pad on my lap and begin to pressure fleck the edge to reduce and thin it into a finished tool. I find the platforms and press downward firmly while supporting the piece with the leather pad. The edges break off cleanly and are extremely sharp.
 
          
 
     Although crude in the photo, the finished product can be utilized in two ways, either as a projectile point or as a cutting tool. This can be easily hafted to a stick to make a handle for cutting plants, cord, or even meat. This can also be affixed to an arrow shaft for hunting small game. 
 
  
 
     The above photo is an example of knapping a quick hunting point from obsidian. Often called bird points because of their size these are actually used to take down large game like deer. These were quickly made in just under an hour. They measure around 7/16th of an inch. Although small, these will take deer and other game. They do not have to be the most beautiful works of art to be effective. Make sure they are straight. 
 
Different points and techniques
 
     This is where I talk about my specific technique for knapping out a point. It would be foolish to sit and make a beautiful woodland period point in a survival situation. It takes excessively much time and effort to do this. I personally make archaic points, I have said this many times! There is a reason and I will explain it. In the Archaic periods, they had to make their points right now and get them done so they could hunt and eat. The woodland periods they had the time to sit and meticulously abrade, flake and shape their points. The reason is agriculture. During the woodland periods, they would grow food and preserve meats, not so in the archaic periods. Although they did dry meats, they were nomadic. They stayed in temporary encampments with pole shelters covered with hides. It was not until around the end of their 7,000-year period that they started growing small gardens. Once agriculture began, they started semi-permanent camps. At this time, they began making clay vessels and changing the way they made arrow points; mainly because they had time to do so.    
     This is why I adopted the archaic point. Being nomadic, they had to constantly hunt and gather food. This lifestyle used up many calories that had to be replaced. Many archaic points found were crafted from flakes struck from a core and quickly made into a point that could be hafted to an atlatl, spear, or other hunting weapon. 
     When I make my points, I knock a flake from a core then shape it by pressure flaking it into a point. I do not take the time to abrade the platforms. I simply shape the point into a workable piece. I can get a point in less than an hour this way. While in a survival situation when the shelter is done, water is collected, traps are set, I can sit by the fire and make a couple of arrow points. This will keep the mind occupied and give a task to perform to better the situation. Weather it is a spear or quick bow and arrow, your chances of getting a meal increases. This is because you now have more than one method of taking game. 
 
  
 
     The above photo shows some of the quick points I have made in less than an hour. The smaller points in the center often referred to as bird points were in fact the size used to take deer by many Native American tribes. The larger obsidian points at top can be hafted to an atlatl. The two clear points were knapped out of stove glass found in the desert on an outing. They were made in 20 minutes. These points are very usable in a survival situation due to the speed that they can be made. A word of advice, this skill I suggest working at before you get into a serious life or death situation. It took me close to five years to get to where I can get an effective point. Besides, if you are patient it is very fun to learn. 
     Among these there are ways of making points without having to know how to flint knap. Making points from hard woods or even bamboo is entirely possible. These can be made quickly and efficiently in the field. Tin cans or even the bottoms to these cans can be shaped into very effective points that will take down even large game. Bone points are very effective and can be sanded or ground to shape. These types of points however must be made thicker for weight reasons. 
 
Field Expedient Blunts
 
  
 
     After constructing your arrows, there are many choices when it comes to points. In this section, I am going to cover using empty shell casings as field points. These are very effective when it comes to taking small game like rabbits or squirrels. These will hit the creature like a fist to the head, knocking them out so you can walk up and dispatch them humanely. In the photo, I used a found 357-magnum cartridge. There was little shaping to be done to fit the field point to the arrow. I simply pressed it on and cut away any shavings made by the shell as it was forced on, you want a nice tight fit. I have also found that this will weigh the tip of the arrow down. In this case it aided the flight of the arrow. In some cases, it could make the arrow point heavy interfering with the arrows flight. In some instances, I have bored a hole in the tail of the arrow and filled it with silt from a wash. This was then sealed with pine pitch to better balance out the arrow. When making two-piece cane arrows this can be done by filling a segment of the cane and sealing it. I will go deeper into the two piece cane arrow later in this chapter.  
 
Hafting Your Points
 
     Once your points are completed or at least usable and your shaft is straight, it is time to haft them to the arrow. I start by making a split at the end predetermined to be the business end of the arrow. You may need to cut out a notch at the tip to get the shaft to accept the point. Heat this in the fire along with some pitch glue to allow the point to be held into place. 
 
  
 
     Above shows the heated pitch glue being applied to the heated arrow shaft. I apply a liberal amount to ensure the point will adhere. Any excess can be easily removed by chipping and scraping it off the piece.  
     Once this is done gently heat both pieces using the coals from the campfire or by getting it as close to the flames as possible without burning them. The point will get hot as well so be careful and use a multi tool or a pair of wooden tongs. You want to heat both surfaces to allow the glue to adhere to the shaft and the point. Once the point is attached with the glue quickly work it to make sure it is straight and well seated in the notch. The glue will cool quickly so if it does harden before you are finished gently re heat the point and move it into position on the shaft. 
 
  
 
     The above photo shows the point being put on to the arrow shaft and adjusted as the pitch glue dries. Once it is secure, it is time to attach the point. As for materials that can be used, I use artificial sinew. Natural sinew is best but not always available. Natural plant fibers can also be used. I have used agave and yucca fibers as well as thinly stripped willow cambium. Care must be taken to coat the finished fibers with glue, as they will loosen as they dry. Using these materials is more of a temporary attachment for the point.   
 
  
 
     The photo above shows the process of wrapping the artificial sinew and securing the point. When using artificial sinew heat it after it is tied to melt the wax coating. This will also draw it just a little tighter. 
 
  
 
     This Photo shows the finished arrow points. These are made from a Jasper Agate and are hafted using the method above. This I have found to be the easiest way to haft points to a shaft. Personally, I have difficulties getting a hold of real sinew. My local craft store has artificial sinew in stock, this is a great substitute and it is very strong. Not only can this be used for hafting arrows to shafts it can also be used for fishing, bowstrings, snares, and just about anything else that requires a strong cord. To make this stuff even stronger it can be made into reverse wrapped cordage with some serious strength.
Flights and Knocks
 
     The flights on an arrow give it a balanced flight. These can be made from an abundance of materials, leaves, grass, bark, and even feathers. This arrow was fletched with chicken feathers. They were cut to shape and attached to the shaft with string. The string was then coated with wax from a candle. These were placed two fingers width from the knock. This will give a very quick flight and knock to your arrow. While there are many other materials that can be used to make flights like duct tape, electrical tape, or even cut up plastic from bottles or other discarded materials. I chose to mix it up a little and use a little super glue and some found feathers.
  In many cases, we are already carrying the things to be able to construct a majority of the things we need. In the past, I have made great arrow flights from credit cards, social security cards, and even sections of my wallet. Many people will wear cowboy hats. Some will even have feathers in the band of the hat. These can be used as well as the band in some cases.
 
  
 
     I made the knock by thinning both sides of the shaft at the knock point. I then carved a small groove in the end of the shaft with a knife. This can be done with a stone tool as well. This is done to ensure a good seat for the bowstring to rest in. This also allows the arrow to sit in place without moving from side to side.
 
  
 
     I have also found that such woods like mule fat work very well for making arrows. Most of the arrows I have made are from this material or from river cane. The reason I am partial to the mule fat is the inner pith. Once you carve down the finger grooves for the knock, it will expose this inner pith. Simply remove it and you have your knock.
 
  
 
     Above are some examples of two-piece arrows. These are very interesting arrows to make. The knocks and flights on these arrows were fairly up front and simple to do. I cut some feathers down to the desired size and trimmed off some of the plumes to expose the hard quills. These made a tag end to secure the fletching to the arrow shaft. I used artificial sinew to wrap and secure the feather in place. This was done on the front and the back or each feather. I then used the hollow tail section to make the knock. A dry piece of hard wood can be shaved down to press fit into the end of the arrow shaft. I wrapped artificial sinew to the tail shaft to prevent splitting as I pressed in the piece of hard wood that would form the knock. Once this is pressed in place you can carve the knock for the bowstring to rest in.
     I usually make the knock using a stone tool. I find this to make the knock just right. I have used the saw on my multi tool as well but you must be very careful. This can cause the knock to splinter while you are cutting.   
  
 
     Above is a photo demonstrating the inserted hardwood plug in the tail shaft of the arrow. When cutting these make sure it is as close to center as possible and is as close to inline with the top flight to ensure proper travel. Some fine-tuning may be requited to the knock before it is actually fired from the bow. This knock is slightly offset to compensate for the fletching.
     When making two-piece cane arrows this means exactly what it sounds like. There is a fore shaft and a tail shaft to these arrows. To make these I will use river cane because I feel it is much simpler to work with. I can cut the segments and have each end hollow to accept the knock and the fore shaft. 
     The reason I am partial to two-piece arrows is simple. They seem to be much quicker to make and the parts are easier to replace or re make in the field. Once the arrow is shot into the target, there is a real possibility that the animal will break the arrow off inside it. When this happens the tail shaft is still intact. It is designed to come apart and separate from the fore shaft. By this happening, all you really need to do is make a new fore shaft and a new point. 
     These arrows are not as hard to make as one might think. I make the fore shaft first. It is done the same way as many other arrows. Select the straightest piece of mule fat or other wood that you can find. Remove all the bark and let it sit in the sun for a few hours. This will start the drying process. Once dry to the touch there is still moisture inside the material. Some of this can be removed by heat straightening the shaft. Once I have worked the fore shaft until it can be rolled with no crooks or bends I am ready to sand it down. This will remove the high spots caused by tooling while removing the bark and any knots from branches. 
     Once this is done, I will move to the tail shaft. It will also need to be straightened. This is done the same way as the fore shaft. You will want to be a little more careful with river cane. The segments can explode when exposed to too much heat. Once the tail shaft is straight, I will then sand off the imperfections from the surface. This can be done with a stone. 
     The next step is to fit the fore shaft to the tail shaft. I will take the thick end of the mule fat or other wood and carve it down until it will fit snugly in to the end of the tail shaft. I will then wrap the end of the foreshaft with a little artificial sinew and the outside end to the tail shaft. This is done to ensure a tight fit and to keep the tail shaft from splitting while mating the two pieces together.    
 
  
 
     Above is an example of the two-piece arrow taken down. You can see how the fore shaft will fit into the end of the tail shaft. 
     Once this is completed, it is time to make the proper length arrow. To do this I will place the tail shaft tightly against my shoulder and grasp as far up the arrow with my hand as I can. I will place my thumb on the arrow with my hands open and fingers extended. Right where my thumb meets my hand when touching the arrow, this is where I will cut the length. This will also compensate for the length of the point that will later be hafted.
     It is then time to install the knock in to the tail shaft as mentioned previously in this section. This will make the release of the arrow strong and very smooth. Once the flights and point are all installed onto the arrow you are ready to rock. You will notice just how well balanced this process makes the arrow. This will pay off during flight.  
 
Spear points
 
     In this section, I am not covering spear points in the sense that you may think. I will use a spear for a few things. These are for extending my reach, defense, or for spearing frogs or fish. I will never throw my spear at an animal nor will I tie on my knife and expect to kill a meal. The first thing that will happen is the animal will run off with your blade. It could even try to return the favor by killing you. Using a spear in this manner is foolish! 
     In the monsoon seasons in the Southwest, I will harvest Saguaro Cactus fruit from a friend's property using a spear to give me a little added reach to cut the fruit off the top of the cactus. I have also used hooks on long poles to do the same thing. A little more tedious is using the spear to collect mesquite and Palo Verdy peas that are too high or too far in the branches to reach. These are very useful tools to have on hand. 
     The materials I have favored for spear points is metal from tin cans and other sources, river cane cut at a 45 degree angle, bone, plastic like Plexiglas or lexan. I really do not make many spear points from stone. The reason is they are larger thus taking more time to construct than that of an arrow point. These also seem to be a waste of time when it comes to spears, have one fall over and strike the stone tip and see what happens. Also remember how I said I use spears, it is senseless to knap out a point to go after fish and frogs. For defense, a good fire hardened hardwood tip will go a long way.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 5 Chapter 11
Clubs and Throwing Sticks
 
 
     First off, let me start out by saying that throwing sticks and clubs in the desert are awesome. I have seized more bush dinners by simply throwing a club than I have with a bow or even a well-set trap. The reason for this is it is the perfect weapon for being opportunistic. While gathering water, wild edibles, shelter material, you name it there are little tasty critters afoot. From mice, rats, even lizards, and snakes have all been taken at one time or another for dinner. 
     In Oklahoma, growing up it was not unusual to take a squirrel, rabbit, or even a duck with a throwing stick. These are very simple to make and take very little practice to become dead nuts with the tool. In most cases, a good heavy stick can be picked up and used as is. In some survival situations, keeping busy is very important. I find I like to carve and do other tasks while I sit around the campfire at night. This means you can really come up with some creative clubs or throwing sticks.  
 
  
 
     This photo is of a throwing stick I carved out with my Apache Bolo. It is curved, tapered like an airplane wing, and has a very comfortable handle. This was done in less than a couple of hours. When I took it out and practiced with it I found that this particular design loves the side arm throw. It has very little resistance while in the air and hits with a lot of force.
     When throwing sticks it is best to throw with a side arm throw. The reason for this is there is more area of the club or stick that will encounter the animal. There is also a greater target area to hit making it far more accurate than an over hand throw. I have hit the target hard using an overhand throw; however, the situation dictated that I used that particular method. I find that overhand works well while penetrating brush and other types of under growth. 
 
Clubbing and spearing frogs
 
     Frogs are a great survival food. I even now people will supplement their diets with these tasty amphibians. The trick is to catch them! I will go about this many different ways. The first is if I am hunting them for food at home, I will go at night, shine a light in their eyes, and spear them. Sometimes I will just club them or simply grab them. There is a bone in their spine that makes a neat handle for doing this. Depending on the situation, you may not have a light. In some outings, we will test our ability to capture as many as we can. With no flashlight, we simply go hunting for them before dark. In the areas we find them, we can find them hiding in the cattails or debris around the water. This being the case we are able to sneak up and grab them with the hand or just club them. My favorite way to get them is with a spear. This gives me a little extra reach and makes it easier to catch them.
 
  
 
     Above is a photo of one of the spears I will use on regular outings to seize bullfrogs. Some of the items I will carry in a basic survival kit and are very handy to have on hand. The first is an old 1980s survival knife blade. As a kid, I found the handles always broke right at the guard. I managed to keep one of the blades from these cheap POS knives. Just because the handle broke does not mean I cannot use the blade. I did a little grinding to change the shape of what tang these blades did have. From there I can split a stick and haft it for a handle or I can make a spear. Either way part of this kit includes the use of hose clamps one of the handiest items I have ever carried. 
     With the blade in place and secured with the hose clamps I then have a use for what would otherwise be discarded. The cheap saw back on the blade makes it to where the blade will stick into fish or frogs. In some cases, it holds on so well I really have to pry the bullfrog off the end. 
 
  
 
     Above is another type of spear I made for fish and frogs. It a length of wood with bicycle spokes cut, sharpened, and secured in place with hose clamps. This spear I will carry extra-sharpened spokes to change them out as needed. Once you spear a bullfrog with this weapon, it will go through the frog and bend on the ground. This is what holds the frog to the spear so you can pick it up. The spokes must then be straightened so the weapon can be put back into service again. 
     I have done a lot of experimenting with frog spears. One of my favorite tools is a bone spear. One of which I have made is a bone trident. You will see this in my tips and tricks section of this book series. Others I have played with include Carrizo cane, split willow, and a simple barbed stick. All of these need to be worked into the final tool. I will even add barbs that are carved onto the points. This makes them very effective tools to use in the field. 
 
  
 
     These are two examples of river cane spears. I made these with frogs in mind, yet these will work well for fish. The spear on the left is made with a willow shaft and the head was made from a section of spit river cane. This was cut to size and barbs were added to help hold the fish or frog on without slipping. Hafting these to the shaft is very easy with jute twine. Parcord, bank line, bark lashing, or other type of cord can be used in its place. If you happen to break a section, it is very simple to sharpen the point.
     The spear on the right is made from a full 5-foot section of river cane. The end was split with a knife into four sections. I then added two sticks in each of the splits to hold them open. These were then lashed into place with jute twine. Once these are lashed in place, they are very strong. The points my bend slightly from one side or the other, this is not an issue. Although these may not seem strong, the natural shape of the cane reinforces the spear points. These are made to go in and hold the fish or frog in place with the springy points. 
     When it comes to clubbing frogs, I find it is very simple. You do not need anything fancy; simply find a large stick around 1.5 to 2 inches in diameter and around four feet long. Once you find your frog just hit him. This will in fact stun him allowing you to bend down and pick him up. The same thing was done to fish and different types of water fowl while growing up in Oklahoma. You can get pretty far by carrying a big stick. In the past, I have used very small sticks at around an inch and a half in diameter and a couple of feet long to club lizards. While I was walking or gathering resources, I would see lizards crawling on rocks and logs. These were very easy to just swat and throw into a pocket for later. Once the fire was ready, we would skin them, gut them, and remove the head. We would then roast them over the fire until they were nice and brown. The bones and all are edible and give a lot of needed energy and protein while in the field. They actually taste good too.    
 
 
 
     This one was caught by hand. I simply shined a light in its eyes, walked over and picked him up. He was small so I let him go after posing with him in a couple of photos.
 
 
 










Section 5 Chapter 12
Gathering
 
     This section may be a little controversial to some. I strongly prefer to gather my food than to actively hunt it down. I reserve hunting for a more opportunistic kill. I find that gather the foods that do not run, the foods that run very little, and the foods that can no longer run the optimal way to go in any wilderness situation. To elaborate the foods that do not run would be wild nuts, tubers, and other plant foods. The foods that run very little are insects, arachnids, crayfish, and the like. The foods that can no longer run are the furry critters that fell prey to the snares and dead falls I set out the night before or even fish caught on a bank line. This is a very viable strategy to learn and live by.
     The opportunistic hunting is not quite what you may think. While scouting for other materials or resources you can easily come across the occasional rabbit, squirrel, Raccoon, or a host of other food opportunities. By having a hunting implement handy, you can have the possibility of a meal. This is not all out hunting; it is in a sense killing two birds with one stone. Any little thing that can help you stay ahead of the calorie game cannot loose. I do not teach nor do I believe in active hunting in a wilderness situation. There are way too many calories burned in the process as well as body fluids. While out scouting for materials or resources keep your eyes peeled for larger game sign as well. Deer rubbings and scrapings are a good way to tell if they are in the area. Deer droppings and tracks in widely used game trails is another. Check around the outer edges of water holes for sign of game. This can aid in an ambush kill. No, I do not mean charge him with a spear, which will only end badly. I mean lay quietly in the bushes with your sent covered and just stay and wait. When they finally come in you can be ready with a bow to take one down. A score like that is very valuable and will last for a long time if the meat is preserved. This can be smoked or dried on racks to preserve the meat and make it last. 
Insects and arachnids
 
  
 
      The above photo shows a literal bounty of protein and calories. The very lower left of the photo there is actually a pot; there are crayfish that have been boiled up for dinner. The center of the photo shows a kabob of grasshoppers being roasted over the Dakota hole. There were literally hundreds of crayfish and grasshoppers in that area which could be for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. These can be easily augmented with wild edibles in the area like watercress, dock, plantain, and cattails. These in conjunction with the crawfish and grasshoppers make a full survival diet. Add edible seeds, nuts, and tubers you have full balanced diet; in my opinion that is not that is not just surviving its thriving.
     Now we are treading were few dare. It is a sad reality but many people cringe at the thought of eating bugs. Here I will cover tree very common and very tasty food sources. These are tarantulas, grasshoppers, and scorpions. I am covering these three because they are the most common and easily found. By simply walking through the grass in spring and summer, you can pretty much have your pick of grasshoppers. They can be very abundant and when roasted they are amazing. Keep in mind they must be fully cooked, they will carry tapeworms. I also prefer to remove the head by pulling it off. The internals will also come right out when the head is removed. I have cooked these by skewering them into a narrow grass stem or thin stick and placing them on the hot coals. Once they are, filly cooked the wings and legs will come right off. These can and will be caught in your throat. Once they are roasted they can be eaten just like that or ground up and put into soups and stews. One could even remove the wings, legs, and head then throw them directly into the soups or stews as well. They are all protein and have more so pound per pound than beef. 
 
  
 
     Scorpions are another good desert treat. I have found these by carefully flipping rocks and logs toward me. This will aid in a little protection from a possible rattler hiding from the midday sun. You do not want a surprise like that. Once you find the scorpions, you can easily make a small pair of tongs or chopsticks to pick them up with and place them into a container. Once ready to cook those up the stinger or telson must be removed. Very carefully hold the tail down with a stick and cut off the tail at the first segment below the stinger. You can then safely handle them and throw them right on the coals. Cook them on both sides until they are to your preference and chow down. Be very careful while messing with these things. They all have a neurotoxin in their venom. The sting is very painful and can be very debilitating or to some even deadly. Gather these at your own risk.
 
  
 
     Finding scorpions are not difficult at all to find. In the above photo, you can see a desert hairy under a black light. Their exoskeleton will react with the UV rays making them glow. With a black light, you can see them far off. During the day, they will take cover out of the sun's rays. The suns UV rays will kill them so they will stay sheltered until after sunset. I have found them under cow patties, rocks, and logs. I have even grabbed a hold of them while gathering shelter material. One cool trick my son uses to get them to stay put is blow on them. He will then pick them up by the tail. 
     Tarantulas are abundant and even more so during the wet seasons known as the monsoons. These are very high in protein and are very easy to catch. The only thing I will do to prepare them is to cut off half of the head. This is where the venom sacks and fangs are. Once I have done this onto a skewer they go and on to the coals. They do have tiny hairs all over their bodies but this burns off during the cooking process. The ones that are still attached will come right off. They can cause some throat irritation so it is best to remove these. I have hers several differing opinions on what they actually taste like. My personal opinion is they are a little fishy with a mixture of chicken skin. I really enjoy these when I find them. They are all very well worth gathering and trying out. Do not wait until a survival situation is staring you down, get the taste now and enjoy them.
     These three edibles are safe to eat and once thoroughly cooked will not cause any problems as long as you followed the guidelines I have laid out. Anytime you are dealing with things that can sting you extra care must be taken. A sting can result in pain or even anaphylaxis. I hold no responsibility for any injuries or deaths that may occur from the information given anywhere. I am versed in the methods of collecting and have done so most of my life. I have in fact received a sting from a scorpion in the past. I ended up in the hospital for it. Personally, I understand the risks; I will however continue doing what I do. 
     Please cook all the insects you find that I mention here. I have found that they all can carry parasites. If you eat them raw then you can catch these and have some major issues. I have never eaten any of these raw because of this.       
 
Other Little Edible Creepy Crawlies
 
     In this section, I will cover three additional tasty treats I have collected for students to try while in classes. I have even feasted on these many times while in the field. These are ant larva and pupae, termites, and worms. I know another one that people usually dare not tread. Trust me these are great. While looking for resources like shelter material, fire material, or material for other projects I keep my eye out for the opportunity to yummy down on some morsels. I will start out with the ant larva. Note to you: this can be very dangerous and extremely painful if stung by the ants. Some can even be allergic to the stings so watch your butt while doing this you can very well die. While harvesting the ant larva keep in mind you have to dig up the nest. The ants have a tendency not to like this very much. However, in the past I have used a flat piece of bark after digging out the nest to place the mass with all the little white specks onto the bark slab. These little white specks are the eggs and the larva. If they are in the sun, they will die and dry out. Simply put the half with the eggs and larva into the sun and the other half in the shade. The cool part is they will separate the debris for you. They will start to carry the larva from the dirt to the shade to protect them. Once this is done put them into a container, cook them up, and eat them. These can be cooked up by adding them to soups and stews or roasted. You can also do what I do but I assume no responsibility for anything if you choose to do so. I will sit and enjoy them raw right out of the container. 
 
  
 
     Yes these are ants! Lots of them in fact; regardless of the type of ant they can all be eaten in the southwest when it comes to their larva. Some require more care than others do but it can be done. I am not suggesting that you go out and gather ants for dinner. That can be very dangerous and can land you in trouble or worse. I also never allow students to a pursue ants or anything else that can sting or bite. However standing from a distance, I have had students watch as I dig up the occasional anthill. With great caution, I have gone after red and black ants to get to their larva. These are a real delicacy in my opinion. I have also filled a container with them and made an ant stew. While harvesting make sure you are not getting into fire ants. These ants are very sensitive to vibration. I will take a large rock or log and while standing at a distance I will throw it at the nest. If they come out and aggressively attack it then I will leave them alone. Another test that is a little crazier I have slowly walked up the nest and stomped my feet. If they come out, they will be moving and so will I to get out of the way.
 
  
 
     Next are termites and their larva. These are also good in my opinion. These can be found in and under the bark of dead and downed trees or under rocks. I will simply remove the bark or carefully flip the rock and see if there are any under the surface. I will then start collecting them into a cup. These can also be done the same way as ant larva. To cook them up just roast them or cook them in soups and stews. I actually get many funny looks while out in the pine forests and I have friends with me. I am constantly checking old dead trees and snacking on these good treats. Some of my friends even cringe when they see me eating this stuff for some reason. To me it is a way of life this is protein, I do not have to go to buy at the store, and it is just the way I think! 
     Sometimes we get lucky in moist areas and we will find earthworms. These are also very high in protein and are easily collected. The way I will go about this is grabbing them up and putting them into a canteen cup or other vessel. I will then rinse them off and squeeze out the poo or mud. I have eaten these in a variety of ways from soups and stews, roasting (not my preferred method), or I will eat them raw. I find these to be quite substantial and with as much as a half a canteen cup it will sustain me for sometime while I get other things done. These give me a lot of energy and they do not taste that bad either. I will tell you one thing, I have found these in the moist areas of rotted cottonwood trunks and in this case, they are a little bitter, cooking however seems to remove this.










Section 5 Chapter 13
Snakes, lizards, Birds, and More
 
 
  
 
This is a western diamondback rattlesnake or Crotalus atrox. These are very dangerous. They are responsible for more envenomation than any other snake in the southwest. They have hemotoxic venom that will literally dissolve tissues from the inside. Its cousin the Mojave has two types' of venom hemotoxic and neurotoxin. This means while your tissues are being dissolved your body is systematically being shut down. I have heard of people passing within 5 minutes after being bitten. They can however be eaten. I personally find them very tasty. I do not however condone the outright killing of these beautiful creatures. They are a food source but only when really needed. The photo of this rattler was taken in macro mode, Yes I was that close.  
    There is one sure way to tell the snakes apart. That is the scales on top of the head. The Western Diamond back has three scales over the eye while the Mojave will have one. They look very similar to the untrained eye though both should be respected and distance should be kept. I do not know very many other people that want to get close enough to guess how many scales or on top of their heads in the first place. I have a love for them, I respect them, and I even handle and photograph them. I do not suggest that some greenhorn comes out here and thinks they can do the same thing. Keep your distance; watch your step, be mindful where you put your hands. Be safe while in the desert. 
     These are very common in the desert. Lizards are easy to catch with a ling stick by simply slapping them. If you choose to eat these however make sure you clean them by gutting, skinning, and cutting off the heads. The skin of some varieties can be toxic casing sickness to hallucinations or both, not my idea of a happy survival situation. The last thing I want is to be seeing mice packing lunch boxes and whistling as they scurry around. I have eaten several lizards and they really do taste good. I have even had the opportunity of living for 3 days on a single lizard that I had clubbed while gathering some shelter material. This was during the filming of a survival challenge show for the history channel. Like I said, they are good and I would definitely recommend them as part of a survival diet. Their small size however will require quite a few for a meal but in the desert, they are abundant. It is like insects and the other small food sources I mentioned earlier. It takes a lot but they will keep you going. 
     Snakes are also abundant. Carefully look for these. Rattlers and coral snakes can kill in a heartbeat. I do not allow my students to even mess with them in classes. I tell them to get away from it and I will deal with them. It is excessively risky for me to recommend you or anyone to try to kill a snake for food. I personally hate killing snakes. I love photographing them and I have a lot of love and respect for them, however, if need be I will eat them. If you choose to include them as part of your diet, I strongly suggest that you club them with rocks or a very long stick. Once they are dead, they will continue to move around on you. They can also still bite you and kill you at this point. The head must come off and be buried. For food, simply make a small incision in the belly to get your fingers into it and pull it off like a big sock. It pulls off very easily. At this time cut open the gut and remove the intestines. These can be discarded or used as bait for fish or traps. I like to cut my snake into 5 to 6 inch long sections and roast them on a stick. I let them cook until the meat comes off in strings. There you go, gourmet snake dinner ala campfire. They are very tasty and if the snake is large enough quite substantial.      
 
Birds
 
  
 
     Above are the sparrows being cooked from the video Shotgun Kit and a snack. In the video, I did not show shooting birds. I know some people get a little upset when things are killed on camera. I respect that enough not show that to my audience. However had I shown the actual shooting of the birds you would notice that I got both with one shot of #8. Not at all difficult or uncommon, the shot pattern will spread out enough to do this. Once they were cleaned, I simply skewered them and put them close to the fire to cook. In many cases, I will simply dig a small hole, build a fire, make a couple of skewers and cook up a meal, or snack in this case. Once I am done, I can throw the scraps in the hole, cover them up, and move on with little trace of my existence. I strongly believe this is how primitive man remained nomadic, keeping himself and his family fed. By using this method, you can cover ground much more effectively and at the same time take advantage of small opportunities like this. 
     Be extra careful however, many birds are highly protected. If you are in a survival situation this does change the game a little. Songbirds like blue jays and robins are federally protected while turkeys and ravens are highly protected in the state of Arizona along with a host of others. The point is if in a survival situation the body must eat. Small birds like sparrows, and even pigeons and doves alike can be eaten the same way. Watch out for vultures or buzzards. These are carrion eaters and carry parasites. These must be properly cleaned and boiled until they are well done. They are edible but I am here to tell you they taste like road kill, not the fresh kind either. 
     I had a close friend growing up that actually clubbed a duck while it was taking off. This was amazing to see. Since then I have been a believer of throwing weapons and clubs. These really are effective especially when it comes to small and narrow waterways like shallow creeks. This gives you an advantage in the sense that you do not have to go swimming to retrieve the duck. With my Native American friends, I have in the spring and summer waited in the cattails with a club and clobbered two ducks as they swam by. The importance of getting this type of protein is paramount. If the opportunity presents itself and you are prepared, it will pay dividends. 
 
  
 
    Another great pay off is the nest of the birds. If you see one check it out there very well could be some eggs or baby birds in there. These are very high in needed calories and the protein is an awesome survival food. It does take a little getting past the initial shock of breaking open an egg and having an embryo fall into the pan or other cooking vessel. The flavor is actually very good and it does not take much to hold you over until your next pit stop. Keep in mind all is not lost if the nest is empty. The nest makes great tinder for starting a fire. Not too bad, really the pun can hold true here as well, killing two birds with one stone food and fire in one place.      
Fish Cooked the Arizona Bushman Way
 
     Not really the Arizona Bushman way but I like this just the same. The easiest way I can cook something up the better off, I feel I am. In many cases, I will simply dig a hole, light a fire, cook, eat, fill in the hole, and move on. The fewer calories I spend doing any one thing the better. The same hold true while cooking up some fish over the fire. In most cases, I will find a good flat stone heat it up in the fire and just toss'em on. When using the coals I will either wrap them in clay or skewer them over the coals. Once their eyes turn white, I know it's time to eat. 
 
  
 
     When choosing a stone to cook on make sure it is not from a creek bottom or one that may have any kind of moisture in it. Once they begin to heat up they will explode. This can be very dangerous and you can lose your dinner. The Monnow in the photo is a small blue gill that found its way into our crayfish trap. I simply placed him on the hot rock and cooked him up. There is now real reason to gut and skin a fish. If you have an aversion to this, you can always gut and skin it after it is done. I will eat the heart, liver, and other organs. I will normally use the intestines for bait.
 
  
 
     Above is the finished minnow. Small but it does replace a few calories. The best bet is to capture several of these and cook them up. We were lucky because we had crayfish to go along with it. Do not mind the ashes they add a little seasoning. As for the bones, in a minnow this size they are very small. You can either chew them up or peel the meat from the bones and discard them. The calcium is a bonus in my opinion. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 6
Improvising Your Tools (Tips and Tricks)










Chapter 1 Plant Fibers
 
 
 
      In this section, I will cover some helpful tips for improvising some important tools for cooking, boiling water, eating, lashing, glues, and making repairs to clothing and equipment from natural and found materials. This is important knowledge to have in the event that your survival kit is lost or for extending the life of certain implements needed for survival. The first thing I will cover in this chapter is clothing and equipment repair. Ancient people the world over made the things they needed for day-to-day life out of whatever Mother Nature provided them. In a survival situation, you should be no different. 
     Making repairs to torn clothing or damaged equipment is not as difficult as it may seem. In the Desert Southwest, the aboriginal people used plant fibers to make mats, clothing, baskets, bags, clothing and even sandals. Most of which was made by utilizing the yucca and agave plant. These plants have inner fibers that have proven valuable for many uses. By separating these fibers, they were able to produce anything from thread to cord. 
 
  
 
     The spines at the tips of the leaves are extremely sharp and can cause injury. Carefully bite the base of the spine and chew threw the flesh. Pull with your teeth until you remove the needle and pull out the inner fibers from the leaf. You can shape the needle by grinding it on a stone. Remove the excess fibers that are not needed to make the necessary repair. A very strong cord can be made from the separated fibers from the leaf. 
 
  
 
     Above left shows the needle being ground on a stone. This is to make the needle narrower and smoother to allow for easier insertion into the fabric. On the right is the finished needle and thread. These fibers are very strong and the repaired fabric will last a long time. 
 
  
 
     To make the repair tie a not in the end of the thread to keep it from pulling through the fabric; begin sewing making loops from one end of the tear to the other to firmly stitch the seam together. Above right shows the finished stitching. All the excess thread has been cut off. The needle was passed under the final stitch and pulled tight; this will firmly hold it in place. If a longer amount of thread is needed simply repeat the above steps with a new needle.
Making Cord from Yucca
 
       Many plants can be made into cord for lasing shelters, making baskets, nets, mats, traps, bows, rafts, and countless other necessities. Having cord in a survival situation is like having gold. It is priceless for what it is used for. Knowing how to make your own rope and cord is priceless. Depending on the job needed to be done the thickness and length of the cord may differ. By simply adding more fibers to the cord, you can make a thicker cord. By splicing in more fibers to the end if a cord you can make it longer. 
     To make cord start by cutting the needed amount of blades from the plant; do not take more than you think you will need for the specific project. Do not strip a plant of blade or you will kill it. I figure with a few blades, you can make a three and a half to four foot rope at a diameter of a  inch. Once you have the blades remove the sharp top and any dead dried fibers from the edges. Lay the blade on a work surface. Wood works the best, laying it on a rock will damage the fibers and make them unusable. Begin pounding the outer chaff until it begins to separate from the leaf.
 
  
 
    The above photo shows a hammer stone being used on a log to pound the outer covering off the leaf. Do not strike too hard as to damage the fibers. In most cases, I prefer to use a log or other type of soft platform to do this kind of work. Unfortunately, we do not always have the textbook situations and materials available when we need them.
 
  
 
     By using a scraper, you can safely scrape away the separated chaff. A discoid blade made from a stone works very well for this. You can scrape with a knife by holding it perpendicular to the leaf. This takes extra care; the internal fibers are extremely fragile at this point. 
 
  
 
      Once the chaff is removed, wash the fibers by rinsing them repeatedly in water. This will aid in washing away any excess chaff. You will notice the fibers starting to form suds in your hand. This is the natural chemical compound called saponin, a natural soap. This can also be collected by rinsing in a large container to wash hair and skin. Saponins are also effective fish poisons, used safely without poisoning humans that eat the fish.
     Work the fibers in your hands to break down any remaining chaff. Pull and separate the fibers with your fingers, you may need to work the fibers some more by pounding and scraping to separate all the fiber.
 
  
 
     Once this is finished, separate the amount of fibers needed. Holding them close to the centers then twist them in opposite directions until a loop forms. Hold the fibers tightly by the loop and begin twisting the top strand way from you using the other hand.
 
  
 
     The photo above shows holding the fibers by the loop with one hand. The arrow shows the direction to twist with the other hand.
 
  
 
      Next, hold the twist with the thumb and index finger. Grasp the lower strand with the middle finger, hold it firmly against your index finger, and twist toward you. This makes the top stand into the bottom strand then the bottom strand becomes the top. Hold the loop end tightly moving your hand slowly forward with each complete coil. 
     As you work your way to the end of the fibers you will notice your rope beginning to take shape. When you reach  of the length of the cord, it is time to splice in a new section to make the rope longer. To do this hold the last twists together tightly and lay in a new length of fiber.
    Next, hold the twist with the thumb and index finger. Grasp the lower strand with the middle finger, hold it firmly against your index finger, and twist toward you. This makes the top stand into the bottom strand then the bottom strand becomes the top. Hold the loop end tightly moving your hand slowly forward with each complete coil. 
 
  
 
      Hold the splice firmly and twist it in just like the rest of the cord repeating the previous steps. You may notice the cord is slightly thicker at the splice point. This is not a problem. Once you have made the desired length of cord simply, tie off the end and let the cord dry. There will be tiny stray fibers sticking out of the rope. You can either leave them alone or burn them off with a flame.
 
 
     To make cord from the agave the steps are the same as the yucca. You can safely use a rock as a work surface (just do not hit the plant too hard) for the agave due the ease of separating the chaff from the fibers. When making cord from agave be extra careful when coming into contact with the juice in the plant. This has been known to cause dermatitis in some people. Dermatitis is an allergic reaction to the juice of the plant that can cause itching, burning, or even hives to the affected area.
 
 
 
     Scrape away the outer chaff with a stone scraper then wash out the fibers in water. Once the fibers are separated and washed, follow the same steps as the cord made from yucca fibers.
     These two types of cord are very strong and can be used for heavy lashings and jobs calling for a stronger cord. These are safe to use for shelter lashings and mid weight load bearing applications such as hanging medium sized deer for skinning and cleaning.
 
Willow Bark Cord
 
     Two ways I like to make willow bark cord. The first is to leave it green and simply reverse wrap it just like I so with yucca or agave. The second way is to "cook" the separated cambium with water and ashes. This process will preserve the inner bark making it stronger and in turn last longer. The process of making cordage from willow bark is to remove the bark from the branch of the tree. I prefer to use green wood for this that I harvest in spring to late summer. This will be very moist and the bark will separate very easily.  
 
  
 
     I start out by pulling the bark off in long lengths. This can be a little tricky. It is important not to just pull it from the branch but to gently remove it by placing your fingers on top of the bark and loop it over supporting it with your hand. Gently pulling little by little until the bark is removed in long sections. This allows you to control the removal of the bark. You can use this as is to lash shelters together or separate the outer from the inner bark to continue to refine the cordage. This is very handy for using with the bow drill or for nets, baskets, traps, or any other task that requires a good strong cord. 
 
  
 
     Moving on to the next step of making willow bark cord is to separate the outer bark from the cambium. This is done carefully and mindful as to not tear the inner bark. Damaging the fibers will compromise the strength of the finished cord. For me I prefer to support the two pieces with my index fingers and gently pull with my thumbs by rolling my hands outwards then repeating the process. This will allow me to control the separation with as little damage as possible.
     While removing the bark and separating the cambium layer I will not use tools. I prefer to do this all by hand. I can easily feel what is going on as well as being able see the progress and correct as needed. By doing this, there is less of a chance of waste and damage to the finished cordage.    
 
  
 
     Either at this point, you can begin to "cook" the separated inner bark or you can begin reverse wrapping it. If you want a very fast usable cord, you can start wrapping it right away. By looking at the photo, you can see the cambium has been twisted on itself until a small loop is formed. From here, you must hold on to this loop to keep it from unraveling. In the past, I have sat there and hand wrapped several feet of this cord. It takes a very long time to get even ten feet of usable cord. My preferred method is leg rolling. This is the most effective and fastest way to make a rope or cord quickly. 
 
  
 
     Wet cord like this green willow cambium will work well on a dry pant leg. If you are working with other types of material, I find it best to wet your pant leg where you will be working to roll the material into cord. Holding the loop that was made much like when you are making yucca or agave cord, separate the strands on your leg; then apply even pressure to both while rolling the strands away from you. Once this is done let go of the top loop and gently twist this in the same direction. If you used enough pressure and rolled the strands, tight enough this will give you a good strong reverse wrap that will not come undone. To make a longer cord repeat these steps and splice more cambium in as needed. Splicing is done exactly the same way as I demonstrated with making yucca cordage. 
     Once you get as long of a cord or rope that you need then simply tie off the end. This can then be rolled up and stored or used right away. This method was done to show a quick way to get a usable cord while in the field. While I have used this several times with much success and I have had this last for quite some time, it will also shrink as it dries out. This means that the cord and the wrappings will loosen up. This is not too big of a deal and will still do the job but may need to be retightened. Allowing the cambium to dry then wetting it as you are working it will help this a little bit. The best way to make a permanent cord is to mix campfire ashes with water and allow the cambium to cook. The ashes have lye that will preserve as well as soften the material making it easy to work and last a very long time. Once removed from the water, it is allowed to dry. When it is completely dry I have had to work it in my hands to soften it back up. This soft material is easy to work with and in my opinion is probably one of the best materials out there for making rope.
 
  
 
     This is a photo of a finished cord. This one is only a foot long, However it will work where only a small amount of cord is required. If you choose to practice this method, please be mindful that you need green material to do it. Removing one branch will not hurt the entire tree but removing several can kill it.  
 
Plant lashing material
 
     Making a lashing material from plants is very similar to using the inner bark or cambium layer from the willow tree. Many plants have a tough outer cover much like bark. Once this is removed, it does not need to be separated, simply reverse wrapped much like making cordage with any other material. In some cases, this material can be strong enough to be used as is with no additional preparation. When using plant material for a bow drill string I find it best not to reverse wrap most plant material. Those of willow, yucca, and agave are very strong and can handle the force the bow drill will exert on the fibers. Others need a little extra care. I have used wild sunflower to achieve this, however I did not make a cord from the fibers. In many cases, just leaving the material flat will serve a better purpose like in the construction of traps, baskets, and lashing shelters together. Among the plants, I have used for this are Jerusalem artichoke, wild sunflower, common cocklebur, hollyhock, grape vines, and in some cases milk weed. To find out what plants will work, simply bend one over, where the plant creases pull off some of the outer material. If it comes off in long strips, it will work.
     For making lashing material, I am not referring to making cord, although some of these plants can be processed into a good strong cord. The purpose for this is for making traps, baskets, and in some cases small cages to hold live caught birds and the like. This material can dry out and shrink much like cordage made from most plant fibers. Simple retightening is usually all that is needed to fix the problem. 
     One trap I have demonstrated in the trapping section was made using plant lashing material as well as willow cord. This primitive crayfish trap can last for a long time and can be used to carry tools or other materials as a basket.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 6 Chapter 2
Making Pitch Glue
 
 
     Pitch glue can be used in countless ways from water proofing, hafting arrow points, to patching holes in just about anything. This stuff is versatile. Pitch glue is made from the sap of the pine tree and other conifers, with an added catalyst of ashes, charcoal, or dung. The sap is found on the tree were it was damaged. The sap will fill the area to aid in repairing the injury to the tree. The resin can also be harvested by cutting a small section of the bark away and notching the tree. This however is not recommended because it can severely damage the tree. Pine trees grow in temperate zones all over the world. People all through history for many reasons used them. The Native Americans for example used pine resin for making pitch sticks. Pitch sticks are sticks that have been dipped and rolled in the pitch glue to make an applicator; this also made it easier to carry from place to place. 
 
  
 
     The above photos are examples of what to look for when searching for pine resin. Both of these photos show a damaged area on the tree. This can happen in a number of ways. The picture on the right was caused be a neighboring tree losing a branch. As it fell, it jabbed into the side of the tree. This was known because of the larger branch lying at the base of the tree (not shown).
 
  
 
     Start by scraping the resin into a container with a knife or a stick. It takes quite a bit of pine resin to make a batch of pitch glue. Once the sap is gathered, I prefer to break up the larger pieces of sap. I place the sap in a coal burned container and use a rock to break up the chunks. This helps to separate any pieces of bark that have been trapped by the sap as well as uniform melting.
 
  
 
     At left is the pine resin that was placed in a coal burned container to be crushed. This will break down the large chunks. At left is the crushed sap that was placed into a metal container for melting and preparation. A stone was used to break up the chunks in the wooden bowl. This was used like a mortar and pestle.
 
  
 
     The sap is placed on the hot coals ten melted slowly. This is important; do not place the sap in the fire, pine sap is very flammable and will ruin the entire batch of pitch glue. Ashes are slowly added to the molten sap and stirred in. When using ashes or charcoal as a catalyst or hardener the resulting pitch glue will be brittle and glass like. This will be good for hafting arrow points and knife blades to antler handles as well as other such projects. By adding only dung from ungulates the mix will be much more pliable. This can be used for water proofing seams and any other application that would require a flexible bond.   
     After the glue is boiled and mixed, move the container away from the coals. At this point, you can roll the end of a stick in the glue to make a pitch stick. This is done while the resin is cooling. You can also keep it in the container if desired. 
     When reheating the pitch place the pitch stick or the container next to the coals to allow it to melt. Do not let it come to a rolling boil. This will cause further hardening when dry making the glue too brittle to be used.
 
    
 
     This is a finished pitch stick. This makes a great applicator for various projects. Slowly melt the tip and apply it to the project. By carefully heating the project as well as the glue this will keep the pitch glue from hardening too fast allowing time to work the piece. Remember the fresher the sap the better the glue. 
     An alternate recipe I felt worth going over is using plant material and charcoal. The plant material I am using is mullein leaves that have been dried and collected from the base of the plant. 
     In this method I had pre collected the pine sap and melted it inside a sardine can. This allowed me to store it and transport it easily without making a mess. It will be removed from this container for the demonstration to show the effectiveness of the clay pitch pot I am using. I have found clay pots to be very useful while making pitch glue. They can be heated in the fire and then removed. The clay will then stay hot for some time allowing you to mix your ingredients and work the mixture before it cools.  
 
  
 
     In the photo, you can see four containers. These are used to store and prepare the needed material. In the small black clay, pot in the lower right of the photo there is prepared charcoal.   This was finely crushed in the wooden mortar and pestle. This is a coal burned container with a large lava stone used to grind material for various projects. In the clay container at the top of the photo is dried mullein leaves that will be finely powdered in the same manner as the charcoal. 
     The pinesap is now removed from the sardine tin. This is then placed into the clay pot. This is then set in the fire to begin heating. 
 
  
 
     In the photo, you can see the pine resin beginning to melt in the clay pot. Once this is hot enough I will remove it from the heat. This allows the pinesap to stay hot inside the pot to be further worked. If the sap begins to cool before you are finished, you can easily place it back into the fire to be reheated.
 
   
 
     Once the pitch is completely melted, you will notice large pieces of bark in the sap; these can easily be removed with a stick. By stirring, you can see and remove most of the bark particles. In the right photo, you can the small clay pot with the charcoal and crushed plant material. This was mixed together to make adding it to the molten sap a little faster. 
     When mixing the material into the melted sap add it slow to ensure it is evenly mixed. The plant material will act as a strengthening agent due to the fibers in the plant. The charcoal will make the sap harder when it is cooled. This type of pitch glue is strong and it suitable for hafting arrow points and patching holes in containers. If you plan to use the containers for cooking, it is advised that you do not use the pitch glue to seal them. Once the pitch is reheated, it will melt and get into your food. This is best used in eating containers and water storage vessels. 
     As the glue begins to cool, you can start to make your pitch stick. By dipping the stick into the hot glue you can roll it and smooth it on to the end of the stick with your hands. This pitch stick makes applying the glue to various projects much easier. The remaining glue can stay in the pot until it is needed in the future. Once all the pitch glue is used up the clay pot is sealed and totally water proof. It can then be used for other things like eating and drinking.  
 
  
 
     Above you can see the finished pitch stick. There is still some remaining glue in the pot. This can remain there or you can simply make another pitch stick. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 6 Chapter 3
Coal Burning Containers
 
 
     When the need arises, having a container is invaluable. These are used for eating, storing, cooking, drinking, mixing, or even crushing ingredients, seeds, pitch, and other needed materials. You could carve out the depression for your container with a knife, but this will cause ware and tear on your cutting tools. By placing hot coals on a split piece of wood or a large round branch or stump you can burn out the depression for your container. You can in fact direct the coals with a straw, pen, reed, or other hollow tube by blowing on the coals in a given direction.
     Start out by selecting a good dry piece of soft wood. Make sure it is not of a poisonous variety such as locust, cascara, yew, or other types of known woods. I personally find the best wood is pine, poplar, cottonwood, or even aspen as long as the coals are not too hot. Too hot, the coals will cause cracking in the walls or bottom of the container ruining your work.
 
  
 
     This project was started by cutting a piece of cottonwood about 41/2 inches in diameter and around 10 inches to a foot long. The wood does not have to be this long but does ensure enough wood to work with. The wood was then split in half giving two workable pieces of material. This wood was cut with a bow saw and split with a machete. If these tools are not available, you can burn the wood to the desired length and split it with stone or bone wedges. Softwood when properly dried will cut and split easily. The size of the container will depend on the size of material cut. There is no limit to the size of container you can make. Depending on your needs, you can burn up to a gallon size in just a few hours.
 
        
 
     In the photo above you can see the tube used to blow on the coals. A pen makes a very good tube to blow and direct the coals while making your container.
 
  
 
     Use a pair of tongs made from a green branch to place the coals on to the work surface. With the tube blow gently but steadily on the coals until the wood starts to burn; when this happens, direct the coals to make the depression. 
     Allow about a  to a -inch thickness for the walls of the container. A damn of mud or clay around the edge can prevent over burning.  
 
     
 
     When you reached about two inches depth remove the coals and scrape out the charred wood. I prefer to allow the wood to cool before proceeding with the next set of coals. This will allow you to examine your progress to better shape your bowl. Do not waste the charcoal. Place it in a cup or other container to keep as emergency medicine. 
     After the bowl or container has cooled, place more coals into the depression and repeat the above instructions. When you have reached your desired depth, remove the coals and scrape the charcoal out of the depression. 
 
  
 
     Use a stone to sand the interior of the container. This will remove any excess coal and wood for final shaping. At this point, you can elect to cut off the excess wood from both ends. These are optional but remember to leave the walls at a  to a  inch thick.
 
  
 
     The finished container or bowl should hold water without leaking. This particular bowl will work well for rock boiling water but in order to use it for eating it should be sealed with pine pitch. Pour molten pitch into the depression and as this cools, work it into the entire depression. If it cools before you coat the inside of the bowl, simply reheat the pitch and finish coating the depression. If the container is to be used for rock boiling; do not put the pitch in to the bowl. This will melt the pitch making a nasty mess.
 
Improvised Tubes
 
     In some cases, you may not have the needed pen or other hollow tube needed to make a coal burned container. This tool is important to focus the oxygen to the coals for more accurate and effective coal burning. On several occasions, I have found plants with a pithy center. This can be burned out by heating a piece of wire in the fire until red-hot. This is then gently pushed through the pithy center. The wire will need to be reheated several times to burn all the way through to the other side. I will then heat a larger section of the wire, push it back through the center, and work it back and forth. This will remove any reaming pith from the inside of the tube.
     For this project, I have used several types of materials. Wild sunflower stalk works very well as well as cattail, river cane, seep willow, reeds, and desert trumpet. The trick is to break or cut a plant stalk to see if it has a pithy center if it does this can be burned out to make an improvised tube. Use caution in some parts of the country some plants and young saplings can be toxic. Use only safe and edible shoots and stalks for this. The last thing you want is to get a hold of a young poison hemlock; you could end up like Socrates. 
 
  
 
     Above is an example of three tubes I made from a single cattail stalk. I heated a wire and burned out the center then wrapped artificial sinew around the top to prevent any kind of splitting or the possibility of a splinter. As you use these, however they will start to burn at one end from the heat. This is not a problem.
Shell Spoons
 
     During a gathering I had hosted we had cooked up some mussels that a good friend had brought. There was a surplus of shells so we decided to take on a small project. We started by gathering up some seep willow shoots and splitting one end. This was to accept the end of the shell. We then heated some pitch glue and melted it into the split. Keeping this hot we also heated the end of the shell and stuck it into the split. To keep the split from opening any further we lashed it with sinew.
     These came in handy for eating soups and stews that were made. By being opportunistic, you can come up with just about anything you could want or need. I remember growing up in Oklahoma I used to free dive for mussels in Holson creek. After cooking them, the shell would be open allowing access to the meat inside. Once finished I would sometimes keep the shells. Some of them were big enough to use as a sort of drinking cup or even an oil lamp. In some cases, I would make soup out of freshly caught crappie or perch and eat it with the shell. Crawfish could be cooked in the shell itself after being roasted and shelled. A type of stir-fry was made with wild mustard, onions, and the crawfish tails. There were endless uses for these and it was a lot of fun to see how we could use them.  
 
  
 
     Above is an example of a homemade primitive mess kit. A close friend named sent me a couple of coconut shells that were split in half. The shell spoon was made during a gathering. The two together make an amazing little eating set; a very quick and simple necessity. In a wilderness living situation, these are well worth having. 
    In the past, I have come across other types of shells. Keep in mind great care must be taken as to keep from coming in contact with viruses or bacteria that can cause serious illnesses. My favorite shells come from some of the camping and fishing trips I would take growing up. The shells of terrapins, snapping turtles, and even large muscle shells can be used for bowls and other implements. The turtle shells can be dried after the shell is cooked and the ridges on the inside ground or sanded smooth. This was done with sand stone, one awesome stone that is in great shortage in my area.  
 
Making Tongs
 
     Tongs are extremely useful in a survival situation for handling hot items. These are very simple to construct. I prefer to use green wood to make the tong due to its ease of carving and flexibility. As the tongs dry, they will remain flexible at the joint and will not break.
 
  
 
     Above is an example of the construction for the tongs. The green wood that was used is split to make a  round. This will allow a good gripping surface for holding flat or round material. At right, you will notice the groove carved into the wood. This allows for even flexing of the tongs and acts as a joint.
 
  
 
      In most cases, the tongs will just bend into shape. Heat can be applied to the joint to allow the joint to bend properly. The above photo shows the tongs in use. They are being utilized to hold the char cloth container to safely place it in and remove it from the fire.










Section 6 Chapter 4
Stone Tools
 
 
      In some cases, you may not have certain tools to do the jobs you need to do. It is known that in some survival situations that the survivor did not have a knife, saw, ax, or spade. Maybe your tools are lost or damaged beyond repair. It is important to know how to improvise the tools you need to survive. Prehistoric man learned to use what was around him for the necessities of daily life.  By using bone, stone, and wood, you too can make the tools you need to butcher meat, build a shelter, or make hunting implements. Mother Nature provides everything we need to survive. The most basic cutting blade can be made from a stone and supplies are limitless. 
      In this demonstration, I will make a discoid blade. This can be used for any cutting and scraping tasks that may arise. The procedure is simple, find a stone that fits nicely and comfortably in the palm of the hand. Make sure it protrudes with a nice point or rounded edge from the hand. This is called a hammer stone. The hammer stone must be of harder stone than the stone you are hitting. Next find a piece of stone preferably flint, agate, quarts, obsidian, or other like stone. Any of the above mentioned stones are preferable but just about any stone will work for a blade or scraper as long as it isn't too brittle or weak; in certain areas the quartzite maybe too brittle as well. With sharp glancing blows hit the rock with the hammer stone on an edge no greater than 90 degrees until a piece breaks off. These shards are very sharp and can cut everything that a knife can cut. When using obsidian the cutting edge is sharper than anything man has ever made including razors. Always use caution when working with stones.
      This is not flint knapping but does work on the same principal. After striking the stone, you will notice that the break has an almost conical shape. This is due to the Hertzian Cone. This happens when the hammer stone strikes the surface of the target or core at an angle less than 90 degrees. The shock of the impact pops off a usable blade. The same principal is applied to flint knapping which causes flakes to be removed from the piece being shaped. This process is easier than flint knapping but still requires some practice and knowledge of basic principles to get right.
 
   
 
        The photo on the left shows the author using the hammer stone to make a discoid blade. This method is very dangerous. Tiny pieces of stone can fly into your eyes casing severe damage not to mention pain. The photo at right shows the finished blade. This can be used for cutting and scraping. The stone breaks with such sharp edges that can skin even large game if needed.
 
Handheld Stone Blades
 
     When thinking of making stone tools there are a lot that are not really mentioned that often. I have researched some of the found artifacts and have learned that in many nomadic tribes they would make a stone tool and just leave it behind. When a new tool was needed, it was simple to just pick up a new stone and knock off a few usable flakes. In some cases, they would keep the tool and carry it with them. 
     With many stone tools I make they are formed from a single flake knocked off of a core. From there I will shape it into the tool I need. In most cases, this only takes me a few minutes to a half hour depending on the tool. I call these my archaic tools. The reason is these mimic archaic period tools. With the lack of agriculture and being mostly nomadic, the tools and even the points had to be made NOW. They did not have the time to sit and make beautiful bi face points and meticulously shaped tools. This means they are crude but they will get the job done. 
     I start by hitting a platform at no greater than 90 degrees; any more, you will get what is called a hinge fracture. This type of fracture can possibly render the flake unusable. I will usually hit the core with a hammer stone made up of a harder stone. Once I get a few flakes off I will examine them and see what kind of tool I can make from it. In many cases, I can use a deer antler tine and finely pressure flake the edges to shape the tool. Some only require only the hammer stone.
 In most flint knapping circles they will tell you to abrade your platforms before you use the pressure flaker. I do not do this. I have found that this is not necessary when it comes to making archaic type tools and points. Now that I have said that, I am probably shunned. My reasoning for this is that I am a survival instructor. This means that I have to do my research to find out what skills can be used as far as practicality. It is not practical to sit there and make a beautiful work of art in a survival situation. Instead, spend a few minutes to make a functional tool that will get the job done.
     In most cases, I will in fact improvise stone blades while in the field or while teaching an advanced class. This will save the use of your primary survival knife. All tools that can be quickly made to suit a job and spare the main tool you brought with you are as good as gold. By breaking off large flakes, I can in fact improvise a razor sharp knife blade. These can even be sharpened by pressure flaking the edges. Sometimes I may need a specialized tool for a certain project. In this case, I will knock off another flake and shape it in to what I need. I can also make tools that will do more than one job, much like a primitive multi tool. I have made blades that will cut saplings for arrow shafts as well as shave and shape the shaft after it is heat straightened. The same tool can be used for making hand and bow drill spindles. 
     This skill can be learned quickly with some patience and a little luck. When it comes to the arrow points I made in the previous section, it took over 5 years to be able to turn out that type of point. It takes a lot of practice and dedication to learn how to break stone. I have had some very close friends just out right give up and walk away when they found out just how difficult it is. Making stone tools is not as simple as just breaking edges from the material. You have to know where to hit and what the result will be. It can be very tedious and time consuming, you will also end up with a few cuts and bruises along the way. Be careful and do not give up! This is a fun skill to learn.  
 
  
 
     Above are some good examples of stone blades. From left to right we have common opal blades made by using slightly different methods. The blade on the far left was by breaking the corner off the stone. This is then finely shaped with the hammer stone to finish the cutting edge. Top center is a square knife made from Arizona Opal. This took a little more shaping and pressure flaking to achieve. The result is a razor sharp serrated blade that cut, skin, and guts anything you need it to. Below the square knife is a sort of multi tool. I used this one to make the spindle in the photo. I cut the piece of wood and shaped the ends and with the notch, I shaved off the outer bark and smoothed it down. I added the notch by pressure flaking the one side of the blade. Finally, we have a hand held stone knife. Again, this was made by breaking off the edge of a stone. It was finished off with the hammer stone to a razor sharp edge. 
     When it comes to these stone tools please check out my hunting and trapping section. I get more in depth into the explanation of flint knapping. I usually teach this in my advanced survival class as well as my knife only course. This makes for a good read but I will tell you what I tell all my students. The best way to learn this stuff is to get out there and do it. Take a trip to your favorite creek and look for stones. Start hitting them with another stone. You will notice how the stones break. Eventually you will find one that breaks just right, trust me you will know it when it happens; from there play around with different ways of shaping the stone with bone and antler tools. You will be surprised at how fast you will learn.   
 
The Hoko Knife
 
     The Hoko knife is a neat tool in my opinion. This simply takes a stone discoid blade and adds a handle. The blade can be made from any stone that will break off sharply. The handle can also be of any kind of good wood that is not rotted. 
 
  
 
    In the above photo you can see the Hoko knife. The blade is made from obsidian and lashed in place with yucca fibers and a seep willow handle. Once the blade is secure, I used some pitch glue to aid in stabilizing the blade in the handle. This is not very necessary but does help. Once you use the blade it will obviously dull. It can be sharpened by simply pressure flaking the edge. 
 
Hand Axe
 
     The next tool I will cover is the hand ax. This is made in the same manner as the discoid blade and is a little more complicated. In this case, you use several glancing blows to shape the stone into a useable tool. By alternating from one side to the other the stone breaks into a sharp chopping tool that can be used to remove branches, debark trees, split wood, or even cut down smaller diameter trees for shelters and other tools. 
    To make this tool find a stone that fits comfortably in the palm of the hand. It should taper from thin, narrow at the base, and wide at the top, which will be the handle. The stone should be of flint, or other previously mentioned stone. Begin by striking the narrow edge with the hammer stone. As you progress, you will notice that there are "platforms" in which to strike the stone. These platforms give you a target to hit. You will also notice that while striking the top side of the stone the bottom side will pop off leaving a sharp edge. You will soon see the stone taking shape. 
 
  
 
     The shape resembles an ax head. This tool is held in the palm of the hand and used a little differently than a modern ax. This primitive tool can also be used to dig holes and trenches. With a little more shaping to the palm side of the stone you can in fact haft the ax to a wood handle making these tasks much easier.
 
Stone Drills
 
     For the longest time I had wondered how primitive man drilled holes in bone, wood, and other materials. After a trip to the Smoki Museum in Prescott Arizona, I saw a good exhibit on arrow points and other stone and bone tools. In with these were some excellent examples of stone drill points. As I looked closer, I noticed how they resembled the same knapping method as arrow points. As soon as I got home, I got out my knapping tools and went to work.
 
  
 
     What I came up with were a couple of great looking drills. I did notice I had to make them a little thicker than actual arrow points. This makes them strong enough to handle boring through bone. The drills in the photo above are actually exact copies of two I saw in the museum. These were tapered to make a narrow hole at the tip and a wide hole at the top. 
 
     Once they were finished, I hafted them to a piece of saguaro rib a friend of mine gave me. This was done the exact same way as an arrow point. The major difference was I had to make the notch wider to accept the thick end of the drill. I tested them out and I was highly impressed with the outcome.
 
  
 
     Above is the hafted drill. I notched the end of the saguaro rib and used pitch glue to set the drill. I then wrapped artificial sinew to secure it in place. I tested the drill on two bone needles and a piece of river cane. I found that it worked very well and little effort was used. This tool is used just like the hand drill method of primitive fire. You can also add a couple of thumb loops for greater control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 6 Chapter 5
Bone Tools
 
 
       Bone can also be used to make tools. Many of the same tools made from stone can also be made from bone. Saws, projectile points, fishhooks, combs, and even shovels can be made from various bones from dead animals. Bones can be found just about anywhere and should not be passed up or over looked in a survival situation. Caution should be used when handling bones that still have "that" odor of death and decay. These should be handled with gloves or with tongs made from sticks. Bones that are sun bleached and dry with no oily texture when touched are safe to handle. Those that are not can be sterilized in boiling water and dried next to the fire to prevent the spreading of diseases. Bones from animals you killed can also be used.
     Making bone tools requires the use of stone or metal tools. The bone must be scored and broken, ground and abraded, or both in order to work into a useable tool.  Bones such as the scapula or shoulder blade can be utilized to make a saw for cutting grass or reeds for shelter construction. The leg bones can be scored and broken to make awls, needles, and projectile points. The anklebones or astragalus can be used as sockets for the bow drill. Vertebrae can be used as arrow and spear wrenches for straitening shafts. Rib bones from large animals are good for bone knives and chopping utensils for meat processing. Other bones such as the skull, toe, and hips can be carved into fishhooks, needles and pins for sewing and fabric repairs, Combs for grooming or for separating plant fibers. Next time you have any kind of meat with a bone for dinner save them and practice tool making and see what you can come up with.
 
  
 
     The above photos show some examples of bones found in the wilderness. These bones were from a dead cow. There was still a smell of death in the area and you can see some of the bones still have decaying flesh on them. Care must be taken to sterilize and clean the bones to make them safe for tool making.
     The first step of making bone tools is to break the bone. It has to be broke in such a way that you get usable pieces. Long splinters are ideal for making needles and smaller wider pieces are best suited for bone spear or arrow points. The bone needs to be scored in certain areas in order to get it to break where you want. I have found it easiest to break the bone in steps. I will first score the ends to remove the larger bulk of the bone this being the joints. I will then score the center length wise to get long splinters or width wise to get spear or arrow points. This is easier to do using the edge of a large stone to score the bone.  I have found boulders that make excellent work surfaces for doing this. In some cases, the edges of these work areas can be used to score the material. 
 
  
 
     I hold the bone on each side and apply downward pressure while working the bone back and forth making a deep score in the surface. While this works, actually getting the bone to break where you want it is an art form. The thicker the bone the harder it is to work with. The material in the photo is cow bone. This behaves a lot different from that of deer or elk. This is some thick bone to work with and it takes some time to work down the material.
 
  
 
     Another way to score the bone is to use a stone saw. I will get into these a little later. I prefer these for this job because of the serrations on the stone. This makes it much easier to accomplish this task. Once you score the bone, it is time to break it. This is done by sharply hitting it on the score marks with a stone. If you made the score marks deep enough the bone will break at that point. If not it will simply shatter the bone. If this happens all is not lost, you can still get usable tools from the broken pieces.  Another way I like to break bone is with an anvil. This type of anvil will be flat on the bottom and come to a sharp point like a pyramid. With this, I can lay the bone across the top and hit it with a large stick. This will break off very long pieces that can be used in many different ways.  
Scapular Saw
 
  
 
     This is a before and after photo of a scapula. The one on the left was boiled and dried at high heat next to a fire and cleaned. At right the finished product. A scapular saw is used for cutting grasses and tulles for shelter construction. I narrowed the handle to fit my hand and sharpened the edge to use as a cutting tool. I used a stone to make the teeth of the saw. There is also a large ridge of bone on the backside that must be scored and broken off.
     The scapular saw can also be used as an improvised shovel and used in many of the same ways that a modern shovel can be used. This tool is very strong and can be used to dig trenches and latrines and can be used to clear the bedding area in your shelter. 
 
Bone Needles
 
     These come in handy for making holes in materials like leather and hides to basket weaving and mat making. It is best to use a long bone splinter for this task. Shaping the needle can take some time. I will use a very coarse stone to grind the bone to the desired shape. If you are near water, you can soak the bone splinters in water to make them easier to work. 
     Stone blades can be effective in shaving the bone down to the desired shape as well. When making these types of tools it will take time. If the chance of being able to work with bone tool making in classes comes up I tell them that this requires a lot of time and should not be made into a priority. 
 
   
 
     Above is an example of two bone needles I made. One is made from cow bone and was very thick. This had to be reduced to a usable size. The bottom needle was made from a found bird bone. These are hollow and make almost a hypodermic needle. The holes were drilled with a stone drill discussed earlier. 
Bone Scrapers
 
     When animals are taken, part of our responsibility is to use every part of the animal. This means not only bone but also the sinew, and hide. Literally, every part of the animal is used in some way or another. It is eaten and utilized for tools and clothing. One way we get the clothing is by using he hide. The hide has to be scraped of the membrane, flesh, and fat. This is usually done with bone scrapers in a primitive setting. 
     The best bone I have found to use for this is the cannon bone or lower leg bone of a deer or elk. Personally, I do not do much deer hunting in Arizona. This is due to strict regulations this state has toward hunting. I think the difficulties of hunting in some states are because they are trying to breed these skills out of us. If we can do for ourselves, it must be bad for the economy.
  I do however have friends that hunt in other states. On occasion, I can get bone from them. This makes it possible for me to make bone tools out of the preferred material. This like everything else has a preferred material; in this case, it is deer bone. 
 
  
 
       The above bone scraper was made by scoring the cannon bone all the way around and breaking it with a stone. It was then ground on a stone to achieve the angle for the scraper. This is used to flesh hides like the one it is sitting on. I used a similar bone tool to flesh out the rabbit hide in the photo. They work fairly well and will do the job for a long time. The edge will need to be redone from time to time to keep it in tiptop condition. The leather wrist thong is used to give a secure grip on the scraper while it is in use. 
     Another cool use for this tool is for making cord. Once the agave or yucca is prepared, this scraper will work very well for removing the outer chaff from the blades. This will expose the inner fibers that will be separated for cordage processing. 
 
Bone Spear Points
 
      Spear and projectile points are made by scoring the bone and breaking it into a rough shape. They are then ground with a file or rough stone to make the finished point. It is best to try to flute the center to make for easier hafting to the spear or arrow shaft. The point and edges can be sharpened for better penetration into the target.
      A trident fish spear can be made by scoring and breaking long splinters from the leg bones. They are then shaped into round points with barbed tips to grip the fish and hold it onto the spear. These are then hafted onto a shaft with cord to hold them in place. Grooves are cut into the bone to keep the cord from slipping.
 
   
 
     The left photo shows two projectile points made from bone. These took about a day and a half (off and on) to make. They are durable and affective hunting tools. The photo on the right shows an improvised fishing spear. I carved the tips into barbs to hold the fish in place while pulling and lifting it from the water. They are held tightly in place with paracord and fit snugly into grooves carved into the head of the spear. There are grooves carved on the bone points as well. This keeps everything from slipping and coming undone while in use. 










Section 6 Chapter 6
Improvised Saws
 
 
     Some cases require the use of a saw. Maybe you do not have one or maybe you lost it. One can be improvised a lot faster and easier than one may think. By using the basic principal of the hertzain cone we remember the making of the stone discoid blade. This principal carries on to making a stone saw. Instead of trying to make a small handheld flake knife, we are making a larger stone blade. This can be made from a variety of stones and once you get the platform and striking figured out you have got it made. I have been lucky enough to find jaspers, cherts, obsidian, and agates while in the field. This may not be the case everywhere. All that is needed is a stone with a very tight grain. To do this simply finds a hammer stone and start hitting platforms to expose the inside of the stone. When you find the right stone simply start hitting with glancing blows until a large enough flake comes off. 
 
  
 
      Look closely at both stones. You can see how the edges have been worked. These both broke off with very sharp edges and could well be used as a cutting tool right off the bat. To take this a step further the edge needs to be serrated. This is what gives the saw its characteristic cutting ability. I use many antler tines while flint knapping and tool making. You may not have one of these available to you. One way I have quickly pressure flaked the edge on a saw in the field is to use reverse pressure flaking. Instead of holding the flaking tool in my hand, I will use the edge of a large rock and press down on the blade. Using a large stone with a 90-degree edge will work beautifully. If a stone does not have such an edge then make one, its only stone. 
     What can we do with a stone saw? For one I have used one of these while practicing knife only and no knife survival skills to harvest materials for hand and bow drill spindles, trap parts, and baskets. I have even used these to make walking sticks and cooking tools. If made properly these will be very sharp and cut very cleanly. In most cases, I have used these to save the edge on my main knife. Hafting this saw to a stick will also allow you to harvest edible and medicinal plants as well as bedding materials for inside your shelter. You are limited only by your imagination. 
 
   
 
     In the above photos, you can see the stone tool in action while cutting a hand drill spindle from a dead standing mullein stalk. This stone saw can even be used to smooth out the shaft and make the fireboard as well. I find that using a stone blade to make the notch in the fireboard gives me the perfect angles for the ember to collect.
 
Improvised Saw 
 
     Another way to improvise a saw is to carry a few small items with you in your kit. I find that a broken hacksaw blade, jig saw, or even a reciprocating saw blade make excellent saw blades for the field. The question is how to attach them and make a handle to be able to safely use them. The answer I came up with is using hose clamps. I found that hose clamps that can open from one inch to smaller are ideal for securing blades to sticks making a very safe handle for broken knife blades and saws. 
     This method of carrying these three small items can really lighten up your kit and expand your capabilities in the field. Two one-inch hose clamps and a saw blade of some kind is one of the most handy kit items to have on hand. I start by finding a branch that is around  to slightly larger and cut it to about four inched long. I will then simply split the stick down the center to about  way and slip in the blade. Using two hose clamps to secure the blade into the stick will ensure that the blade will not move. This can be tightened using your multitool or the spine of your knife blade. Do not worry about snapping the tip on your knife these clamps will strip before that happens. 
 
  
 
     Looking at the photo above you can see the jig saw blade secured to the handle. I have cut several branches and made several traps with this particular saw and I have yet to have it slip or break. 
 
More Hose Clamp Uses
 
     As shown above with the improvised saw using hose clamps and a jigsaw blade, it makes a very handy lightweight tool that can have several possibilities. One particular tool I have made with this method is spear making. By using a broken knife blade or even a field made bone or tin can point you can secure it to a shaft with hose clamps. If you have larger hose clamps you can add a handle to your stainless steel water bottle to safely remove it from the fire as well as pour the hot liquid out safely without risk of burns.
     One possibly over looked use for these is for trap triggers. I have set up bow traps in the past as well as spear traps that require the use of cord loops to make up the trigger mechanisms. By eliminating the cord loop and placing in a hose clamp instead, it makes the trigger stronger and maintains the sensitivity of the trigger upon release. While using bow traps and other types of projectile traps the hose clamp will allow a very solid arrow or spear rest and even a guide. Smaller hose clamps can be used to haft bone points to arrow shafts giving that little bit of extra weight where it is needed for greater distance and accuracy. For all reasons I have decided to make hose clamps a permanent fixture in any of my kits. These are taught as part of my basic and advanced classes. Once the students use them, they gain a completely new appreciation for them. Of all the students, I have had about half that I know of still use them and keep them in their kits. Even my military students have told me that they now have most of their units carrying these things. In my humble opinion, I believe you can shed a lot of unneeded weight from your kit by utilizing these. 










Section 6 Chapter 7
The Awesomeness of Cord
 
 
  
 
      Para cord is the most versatile cord with as many uses as you can possibly dream up. Also known as 550 cord it has an outer nylon sheath with seven inner strands. These strands can be removed and tied together to make anything from nets to fishing line and snares to spears. Just five feet of 550 cord will give you close to thirty five feet of fishing line. This cord is easily wrapped around knife handles and walking sticks for extreme ease of carrying. This is the best survival cord money can buy and for a survival situation it is well worth its weight in gold.
     Weather its paracord, bank line, or even contractors line, the need for cord in the field is immeasurable. No matter the task or survival necessity, it could be argued that cord is right up there with a knife or even shelter for that matter. In primitive times, cord had to be made by hand and in tribal lands, cord is still mostly made that way. It is so important that it is not cut; it is used repeatedly. Cutting the cord could spell a missed meal and hours spent making a new one. For this reason, we are blessed with hardware and surplus stores were we could get an abundance of the stuff. It is one thing we really do not think much about until we need it and do not have it. Personally, I am here to tell you that the first time you have to make cord in the field it is a very humbling experience.    
 
Makin Nets
 
     Having a net in a wilderness survival or wilderness living situation is an added advantage. Knowing how to make a net is even better. Nets are useful in several different aspects. They can be used for backpacks, carry bags, traps, fishing, and if made large enough they can be used as bedding in the form of hammocks. With all these uses, it would seem foolish not to invest in a net. In this section, I will walk you through the steps to make a functional net for survival use. 
     Many kinds of materials can be used for making nets in the wilderness. You could carry a roll of cord to be used as netting. If that gets lost, you can substitute the roll of cord with natural plant fiber cord. I started my net by using what I call poly cord. This is the same stuff mentioned in the hunting and trapping section of this book. It is wax coated for weather resistance and if used in other applications heat can be applied to the cord to melt the wax and seal the project were needed.  It is very strong and is used in boot factories to sew the soles onto boots. This waxed cord is even used to make saddles. 
 
  
 
     To make a net start with the top line, this line will give the edge of the net stability. This line is tied horizontally between two trees, posts, or even in a frame made from poles. This line will also be where the vertical lines will be attached.
 
      
 
     The above photo is an example of the vertical line being placed onto the top line. There really is no way to give exact measurements for this project. The length of line I used for my vertical lines is three arm lengths or around nine feet. These are then doubled in half and placed over the top line giving you 4  feet. The length of the vertical lines will determine the size of your net. You will also notice as you work your way down these lines will shrink or get shorter by 1/2 the distance of your knots. 
 
  
 
     The lines are then tied in a simple overhand knot and spaced about 1/2 of a finger apart. Notice in the pictures how you have two strings hanging each knot. This is the most important part of this project. You will also notice the knots will slide along the top line. This is not a problem. Keep the knots evenly spaced and you will have no problem with making the net. To start the pattern grasp the second line and the third line and tie them together in an overhand knot, then the fourth and fifth and so on. Once you reach the end of the first run return to the beginning and start the second run. This is where the first and second line is tied together. Each line will be pulled across and tied to the line closest to it on the opposite side. 
 
   
 
     Using your finger as a guide, check the spacing of all your knots. This will be continued all the way down the line. This does get a little tedious and frustrating at times. Do not worry about what line goes where. As long as you keep the triangle in mind, you can accomplish this task.
 
  
 
     Once you reach the end of your shortest line, it is time to put on the bottom line. This is tied tight the same as the top line. Each knot and the bottom will have tags hanging from them. Straddle the bottom line with the tags and continue to tie overhand knots all the way down to the ends cutting off the excess. 
 
    
 
     Now your net is finished. Remove it from the tree or frame depending on what you used to tie. Make sure you leave the tag ends to give the net a way to be tied off and used. This finished net was 3 feet by 5 feet. This is a good size for a versatile survival net. This can easily be used for traps, fishing or any other task that comes to mind.
 
  
 
     This is a photo of the finished net neatly folded for storage; it is lightweight and will fit in your pocket or in any pack. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










Section 6 Chapter 8
The Mortar and Pestle
 
 
     The mortar and pestle is an ancient tool used to grind grain, insects for soups, seasonings, and many other needs. The great thing about the mortar and pestle is they were mostly all made of volcanic basalt. The way basalt is formed every trace mineral on earth is found inside of it. Using the mortar and pestle removes tiny amounts of these trace minerals and mixes them with your food. This is an added boon to your survival diet. 
 
    
 
    Making a mortar and pestle is surprisingly simple. I found a piece of basalt in a creek bed. One side of the stone was broken but I saw the potential. This little cobble would soon be a valuable tool. 
 
       
 
     I looked around for a hammer stone and found one that was suitable. I began gently pecking the surface of the stone and chipping small pieces away. After a while, the stone was beginning to take shape. I found a small oblong piece of basalt to use as the pestle and started grinding them together. In about four hours, I had a functional mortar and pestle. 
 
     
 
     This is a photo of the finished mortar and pestle. As time goes on as it is used the constant grinding will wear down the pestle and the inside of the mortar making the mortar even more bowl shaped. 
 
Wood Mortar and Pestle
 
     This particular tool is made from a coal burned container and a stone to use as a mano or pestle. This is what will grind various items like plant medicines, berries, charcoal, seeds, and a host of other things. Surprisingly enough this simple mortar and pestle has come in very handy. Many of my camping trips are conducted as primitively as possible. This makes me come up with the things that make life possible. I was surprised to find that something that would seem so meaningless to most has so much importance in a wilderness living scenario. 
 
  
 
     The above mortar and pestle was made quickly and demonstrates one of the many uses of a coal burned container. The stone was found in a wash and was used to sand out the container during the making of the tool. To date I have eaten soups and stews from it, ground berries to make a cider type drink, prepared medicines like poultices, stone boiled water, powdered dried pinesap, and charcoal for making pitch glue, the list goes on and on. About the only thing I have not done is made flower from seeds. The reason being the wood is too soft to allow the stone to grind most of the seeds in the desert, for this, I use my stone mortar and pestle. Other than that, this has been a very handy item to have in my primitive kit.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Thank you for taking the time to read Survival in the Southwest. This has been a daunting task to put together and present to you. I wanted to try to make this as easy to read as possible as well as putting in my own personal experiences with each section. Along the way, I had found myself editing repeatedly, trying to get rid of all the typos and other issues that I ran across. I am sure there will be many left behind that I could not spot or fix. My deepest apologies for this, I am only one person. I find that while doing these types of tasks, I must play the role of several different people. Not only am I the photographer and writer, I am also the editor, proofreader, cover designer, and even the publisher. This on top of all the other things I must tackle day to day has made this the most difficult challenge I have ever faced. I hope you were able to read and enjoy this book, or maybe even learn a few new ideas. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
















