











 

 
The Gutenberg Parenthesis







 

 
To the Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalismat the City University of New York,for giving me the freedom, motive, and means to explore the ideas here.
















CONTENTS

Part I    The Gutenberg Parenthesis
1      The Parenthesis
2      Print's Presumptions
3      Trepidation
Part II    Inside the Parenthesis
4      What Came Before
5      How to Print
6      Gutenberg
7      After the Bible
8      Print Spreads
9      The Troubles
10      Creation with Print
11      The Birth of the Newspaper
12      Print Evolves: Until 1800
13      Aesthetics of Print
14      Steam and the Mechanization of Print
15      Electricity and the Industrialization of Media
16      The Meaning of It All
Part III    Leaving the Parenthesis
17      Conversation vs. Content
18      Death to the Mass
19      Creativity and Control
20      Institutional Revolutions
Afterword: And What of the Book?
Acknowledgements
Notes
Bibliography
Index



i
v
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
99
100
101
102
103
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
145
146
147
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
177
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
239
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
274
275
276
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
298
299
300
301
302
303
305









PART I
The Gutenberg Parenthesis

 
All the world acknowledges that the invention of Gutenberg is the greatest event that secular history has recorded.
Gutenberg's achievement created a new and wonderful earth, but at the same time also a new hell. During the past 500 years Gutenberg's invention has supplied both earth and hell with new occurrences, new wonders and new phases.
It found truth astir on earth and gave it wings; but untruth also was abroad, and it was supplied with a double pair of wings.
Science was found lurking in corners, much prosecuted; Gutenberg's invention gave it freedom on land and sea and brought it within reach of every mortal.
Arts and industries, badly handicapped, received new life. Religion, which, during the Middle Ages, assumed tyrannical sway, was transformed into a friend and benefactor of mankind.
On the other hand, war, which was conducted on a comparatively small scale, became almost universal through this agency. Gutenberg's invention, while having given to some national freedom, brought slavery to others.
It became the founder and protector of human liberty, and yet it made despotism possible where formerly it was impossible.
What the world is to-day, good and bad, it owes to Gutenberg. Everything can be traced to this source, but we are bound to bring him homage, for what he said in dreams to the angered angel has been literally fulfilled, for the bad that his colossal invention has brought about is overshadowed a thousand times by the good with which mankind has been favored.
— Mark Twain, June 27, 19001







1
The Parenthesis
Gutenberg's era—print's era, the era of the book for the last 550 years—was a grand exception in the course of history. That is what Tom Pettitt, Lars Ole Sauerberg, and Marianne Børch, professors at the University of Southern Denmark, assert in the theory they name the Gutenberg Parenthesis. It goes like this:
On the other side of the Parenthesis, before printing, stories and information were passed along mouth-to-mouth by family, friend, traveler, town crier, and balladeer. News, rumor, verse, and song would evolve along the way. Knowledge and memory were collective, collaborative, and often performative using rhyme and lyric. There was little sense of authorship or ownership of information or tale. The business of books was expensive but simple: one manuscript, one scribe, one patron, and much time. The scribes' higher mission was to preserve the knowledge of the ancients.
Then, halfway through the fifteenth century came Johannes Gutenberg with his Bible and the development of movable type. His Parenthesis opened. With the printed book, knowledge came to be bound in covers, with a beginning and an end. Our cognition of the world became linear; as Marshall McLuhan would say, "The line, the continuum—this sentence is a prime example—became the organizing principle of life."1 Text evolved to become fixed, unchangeable, permanent. Eventually, texts were identical, consistent, no longer subject to the idiosyncratic edits, amendments, whims, and errors of scribes. That is how print gained trust. Society gravitated from collective credibility to that of the certified expert, honoring the graduate, the professor, the published writer. Print gave birth to the author as authority. Institutions were challenged: popes and princes. And institutions were reborn: new ideas of publishing, religion, education, childhood, the public, and the nation emerged. It took more than two centuries, but the industry found its economic foundation with the enactment of copyright law in England in 1710. Then writing, text, and creativity were seen as products and property: a commodity we call content. Content is that which fills the container, the book. Society no longer conversed so much as consumed.
Now comes the internet and the closing of the Parenthesis. Today, as the world moves past the Gutenberg era, knowledge is again passed along freely, link by link, click by click, remixed and remade along the way. The value of authorship and ownership of content is diminished—thus we find ourselves in rancorous legal and political battles over the enforcement of copyright. We no longer communicate just in text but now in images, moving images, and modern ideograms: memes and emoji. "The individual word, as a store of information and feeling, is already yielding to macroscopic gesticulation," said McLuhan.2 Our memories are not trapped in pages but are held for us in a figurative cloud that is material but distant, a search away. Our perception of the world is no longer contained in the dimensions of the line and seems to be exploding in a constellation of clicks and links, search and social, data and algorithms, erupting occasionally in epistemological warfare. We no longer honor the ancients and, as is all too apparent lately, less and less does society heed expertise. Now, observed philosopher David Weinberger, the smartest person in the room is the room itself: the network that connects everyone and their knowledge.3 Society's institutions are challenged, and it is by no means certain how media, journalism, copyright, education, privacy, authority, law, policing, the public, the nation, and our sense of knowledge itself will emerge.
A few years ago, I sat at a table in New York with Pettitt, the man who brought the Gutenberg Parenthesis to the United States in a presentation at MIT.4 I had watched a video of the talk and was enthralled with his idea, for Gutenberg had long fascinated me as the master inventor, the ur-entrepreneur, the mysterious hero of the story of stories, and the creator of what printers call the art preservative of all arts. After conversing via email and blog post, Pettitt and I met for lunch. He is a charming, intellectually excitable, and British gentleman who taught in Denmark for years. He speaks in the grand abstractions of the academic. He is politely blunt.
"What a coincidence it is," I said.
"What?" he asked, brows tensed.
"How you say the future looks like the past, before and after Gutenberg. Amazing, the parallels."
"No," Pettitt said, holding himself back from calling me a dunce. "This is why we call it the Parenthesis." It is a return to what was before. The resemblance of the net's age to the scribes' is not coincidence—nor is it necessarily progress—but instead represents the potential restoration of the state of things before Gutenberg. Thus Gutenberg's era is the Parenthesis—the enclosure of an exception. (Pettitt explained that while in the United States "parenthesis" means the symbols themselves, in Britain it means what is inside, such as this.5)
With his theory and his talk at MIT in 2010, Pettitt became, somewhat to his consternation, a demicelebrity in the ranks of internet scholars, bloggers, and digital journalists. He is not a nerd himself, at least not one of the digital variety. Pettitt is a medievalist, fascinated with how information traveled in ballads of the period. "A medievalist can be a futurist, because the Gutenberg Parenthesis tells us the future is medieval," Pettitt told an interviewer.6 Or as he argued in a paper: "The future, it seems, will be a mirror image of the past, the changes inherent in the shift from print to the cinematic to the electronic media to the digital media reversing the changes inherent in the shift from scribal copying to print."7
Agree or not with the particulars of Pettitt & company's view of history, their theory calls attention to the opportunity we have to examine our recent and not-so-recent past—the epoch of print—in contradistinction to the digital present and the change it portends. That is, through the perspective of this contrast of ages, we have the chance to define and judge what was, how we got there, how it is transforming, what should be discarded as archaic, what should be preserved as valuable, and what needs to be created for a new reality—with lessons from the past, good and bad, to inform us. We also must interrogate our present-day presumptions about the past, particularly who was and was not included in society's first-person plural. The internet invites to the table where norms are negotiated and power is dealt the many communities that had been excluded from the circumscribed public conversation held in print and mass media, in the purported public sphere of the Gutenberg age.8
Standing on the cusp of a new age allows us to better understand the era we are leaving—not back to the future, but forward to the past. "The latest in technology is always the occasion of metaphysical voyages outward in space but backward in time: a journey of restoration as much as of progress," said the late Columbia University professor James Carey.9 Said book historian Adriaan van der Weel: "Recognizing historical continuities and discontinuities can enlighten an understanding of the new phenomena that are now taking place. Conversely, a study of the digital forms of textual transmission may throw new light on earlier technologies and offer unexpected insights into the history of the book."10 The history of the book illuminates the central role print had in the building of every modern institution—in culture, education, bureaucracy, commerce—and now the role the internet is playing in challenging each.
Print has been implicated in so many tectonic displacements in society. Gutenberg was the early industrialist who brought scale, speed, and standardization—an assembly line—to craftsmanship. He was the early entrepreneur who sought risk capital from his partner, Johann Fust, to pay for the paper, metal, labor, experimentation, and space needed to produce books before customers could buy them. Printing is often called a catalyst of capitalism. In Benedict Anderson's theory of print-capitalism, the market for vernacular publishing standardized dialects as languages, which helped draw the boundaries and concepts of the nation and nationalism.11 ("A dialect," in Umberto Eco's definition, "is a language without an army and navy."12) Thus one of the most momentous decisions made by the first best-selling author, Martin Luther, was to publish in German rather than Latin, gathering a public around his ideas and standardizing the language. The printing of indulgences, starting in Gutenberg's shop, provoked Luther to wage his Reformation, and print was the weapon he wielded to challenge the authority of the Church. The book seeded new methods in research and science as scholars no longer needed to travel to information; it could travel to them, eventually providing distant minds the same information around which they could compete and collaborate to advance knowledge. Printing—with the important and coincident development of postal networks—opened the way for a culture of news, information, and debate that, according to Jürgen Habermas, fostered the public sphere in the coffeehouses and salons of eighteenth-century England and Europe. Others say publics emerged earlier and elsewhere, but print played a role in any case. Print stoked the engines of bureaucracies in the modern state with forms, records, laws, proclamations, and other ephemeral documentation and data collection. The book revolutionized education—allowing students to read themselves rather than be read to—thus, it is said, transforming our idea of childhood. And reading, once it became silent and solitary, drew us into ourselves, altering our interaction with others and our view of our world.
Here I will not argue that history repeats itself or even sings in harmony, only that we have lessons to learn from what has come before. I will not predict, for I cannot imagine a more hubristic and fraudulent self-anointed job title than "futurist." As Jean-Claude Carrière said in conversation with fellow French novelist Jean-Philippe de Tonnac: "The future is not a career." De Tonnac agreed: "We cannot predict the future. These days the present is constantly shedding its skin."13 I will not argue that technology in the past or in the present seals any particular fate; I am no technological determinist. Nor will I pine for what we are losing; I am neither a nostalgist nor a revolutionary but instead aim to be a realist about the change occurring. I am hopeful (some would say to a fault), for I believe that with fits and starts, disruption and pain—and no scarcity of wars—we as a society demonstrated that we eventually could manage and ultimately exploit the changes that print brought for our benefit. In 1900, 450 years after the advent of movable type—on the occasion of the opening of a museum honoring Johannes Gutenberg in his birthplace, Mainz—Mark Twain thought it time to judge the balance of books' impact on society. In terms we hear now about latter-day technologies, Twain weighed good against bad—truth vs. untruth, liberty vs. despotism, science and art vs. war—and he judged that the good books brought had triumphed a thousandfold over the bad. I agree.
It is too soon—and I'm sorry to say that I and perhaps you are each too old—to hope to live long enough to see how the transformative technology of today, the internet, will turn out. Said Nietzsche: "The press, the machine, the railway, the telegraph are premises whose thousand-year conclusion no one has yet dared to draw."14 We cannot know whether the net will become as fundamental a fulcrum in history as the printing press proved to be, though I imagine it could be. For the flow of change we are experiencing is just beginning; it will not end in years or decades or perhaps even generations or centuries.
If we cannot know what is to come, we do know what is past. We are witnessing the sunset of Gutenberg's day. This is not to foretell the death of the book, nor the obsolescence of text. Instead, it is to say that the era of print and text are being eclipsed in their influence by the age of the internet and data, which provide us with new means of connection, new mechanisms to analyze our world, and new modes of memory. We are fortunate to live in a moment of contrast when—by examining what is different, what we might lose, what we are fighting to save, and what we may invent—we can better examine what has been: what it meant to live in the time of text and what freedoms, limitations, and presumptions it implied in our worldviews. We live in a moment of choice, and it is good and necessary that we examine what we might gain and lose.
We have time. Consider the chronology of print, which I will recount in these pages: By about 1450, Gutenberg was printing his Bible, having developed the mechanisms to design, engrave, and mold letters as metal type and to impress their images on paper. His masterpiece came off the press in about 1454. In its first half-century, print lived to mimic what had come before: the work of the scribes. The book in the form we know today—with title pages, page numbers, and indexes—did not emerge until about 1500, at the close of what is known as the incunabular or infant phase of print. In 1517, Martin Luther printed his Ninety-five Theses, challenging the Church and upending the world. A century and a half after Gutenberg's Bible came a rush in innovation using print. In 1570, Michel de Montaigne began publishing what he was the first to describe as essays. Miguel de Cervantes wrote what is called the first modern novel, Don Quixote, in 1605. In that same year came the first regularly published newspaper. Copyright and an economic model for this industry came into being in England yet another century later, in 1710. The first major technological developments in printing—the iron press; steam power; inexpensive, machine-made paper made from wood; and stereotyping to mold and duplicate pages for print—did not arrive until the early nineteenth century. The typesetting machine came at century's end. Print faced its first competitor, radio, early in the twentieth century, with television following. And here we are today, 570-plus years on.
What I have left out of that timeline is, of course, the birth of the internet. Though a predecessor network had been in existence since the 1970s, I mark the net's debut as a public, popular enterprise with the introduction of the first commercial web browser, Netscape Navigator, in the fall of 1994. As I write this, we stand just over a quarter century past that moment. In Gutenberg's timeline, that puts us at roughly the year 1480. This is just to say that if these momentous inventions, print and digital, turn out to be anything nearly alike in their progress and impact, then consider the idea that we may be at only the beginning of a long period of vast and profound change. Some say the disruption we are experiencing today is fast. But what if it is instead slow? What if there is much more change to come? What if we are only at the start? The net is far from finished. Developing the technology, learning how to exploit and control it, and understanding the changes made possible by it could take a very, very long time.
The history of print begins long before Gutenberg, in China—where movable type, woodblock printing, and paper were pioneered—and in Korea, where movable type was in use before Gutenberg but did not spread, perhaps because of geography or the complexity of the languages or simply timing. The story I tell here tracks Western print culture to its origins: to Gutenberg and the opening of his Parenthesis, primarily in Europe. When printing spread elsewhere, it was often—as in Latin America and India—due to colonialism. The rise of printing in the Arab-speaking world and Africa followed later. Women entered the narrative slowly, as printers in convents or in the businesses they inherited from husbands. As readers, women were the subjects of moral panics about the corrupting influence of reading, particularly fiction. With the beginning of the magazine, women were finally recognized as a valuable audience and market. In North America, enslaved Black people often worked in printers' shops, and with Frederick Douglass finally became publishers and authors, though too much Black history in print is lost as it was not valued and preserved.
The history of printing is a history of power. The story of print is one of control, of attempts to manage the tool and fence in the thoughts it conveyed, to restrict who may speak and what they may say through gatekeepers, markets, edicts, laws, and norms. And so the opportunity facing us now is to use our new tools to redress that crime and pay reparations, at least in attention and respect, to the people too long not heard. Or will incumbent institutions instead succeed in protecting their past, dismissing those the powerful see as rivals, invoking fear and panic, and passing laws—as princes and popes did a half a millennium ago—to restrict who may use these new tools and what they may say and do with them? That is our choice as we decide what the net should be and how we should use it: to what end?
What is the net? My colleagues in media see the world, Godlike, in their image and call the net a medium: a new, third subset of media alongside print and broadcast. I say the opposite is true: media are becoming a subset of the network, together with most every other sector of society, all drawn into its black-hole gravity. Communication is now entirely inside the net, as is what we call social media, which was born there; retail, finance, education, politics, government, even crime are also being subsumed into the net (all the faster when the "real" world shut down in favor of the "virtual" in the COVID pandemic beginning in 2020). This is why, as a journalism professor, I am more interested in studying the internet than media. Media are a creation of Gutenberg's age. The net is something else.
A first, sensible reflex when faced with something so new is to try to adapt what came before, to revise and redesign old forms, asking: What is a newspaper that can change by the minute? What might a book be without the confines of material covers? In an earlier book, I called for evolving the book so that any volume could be updated, searched, corrected, linked, and discussed. I now see this was the wrong way of thinking, and at the end of this book, I shall repent. I live at the end of text's era; I still see the world through Gutenberg glasses. Gutenberg himself did not live in his own age; he lived in the scribes' time, which did not end until long after his death. He replicated the copyists' style, automating and perfecting their work. Likewise, publishers today insist on publishing books, newspapers, magazines, shows, and advertisements on the internet, each still fundamentally recognizable as an old form realized in a new technology. It was Gutenberg's descendants who created the next age at the opening of the Parenthesis. It will be our descendants who build what succeeds it.
Again, what is the net? Thus far, I see it as a mechanism of connection. It connects people with information, people with people, information with information, and machines with machines. What is different about that? This, I think:
Everyone can be connected. One-to-many is replaced by any-to-any and any-to-many. The mass is dead. Communities and movements rise (and with them sometimes conspiracies and insurrections).
Everyone will be able to speak. When and if connection is universal, speaking need no longer be a mark of privilege, which is just what upsets those who held the privilege. Voices too long not heard in mass media now can speak by new means, raising fresh opportunities and issues. Who will listen? Will all this talk remain cacophony or can it be productive discourse?
Information is connected, too. Data that were locked in filing cabinets and spreadsheets—as text was in the pages of books—can now be combined with more data to expand the scale and scope of information and knowledge and to teach machines. Some ask whether it is possible to know too much.
And machines can find insights. With enough data and with enough processing power, computers can find connections in information and predict human behavior often better than humans, which could have unsettling effect on our cognition of the world.
Today we think the internet is a story of technology. That is why, in the coming chapters, I will explore the story of print as a technology: its invention, spread, development, exploitation, and control. Yet the real story of print is not about the machines but instead about what people could do with them, what they could invent—from fiction to essays, encyclopedias to dictionaries, newspapers to magazines, bureaucracy to propaganda. In the first two sections of this book, I will trace print from its beginning to its eventual eclipse and examine the debate over its meaning. In the third and last section, I will turn to the internet and ask what we can do with it, using the lessons we learned in print's age.
Fundamentally, this is the story of society relearning how to hold a conversation with itself. The early days of print were conversational in nature: Martin Luther in disputatious dialogue with the Church in pamphlets and books; Dutch philosopher Desiderius Erasmus conversing with Sir Thomas More via the Adages and Utopia; Montaigne deciding whether he was holding a conversation with himself, his friends, or the world in his Essays; John Milton, Benjamin Franklin, and John Wilkes defending the importance of public debate in their publications—all carrying on the grand traditions of Plato, Socrates, and Cicero in valuing conversation as a tool of friendship, of learning, and ultimately of democracy. The public conversation was drowned out as media became top-down, one-way, one-size-fits-all. That, too, is a story of technology: of steam-powered machines bringing scale to printing to create the mass market, mass media, mass culture, mass politics, and the idea of the mass. For half a millennium, the mediators of media—editors, publishers, producers—controlled the public conversation. Now we may break free of their gatekeeping, agendas, and scarcities—while at the same time risking the loss of the value these institutions have brought in recommending quality, certifying fact, and supporting creativity. What must we create to replace these functions? The internet finally allows individuals to speak and communities of their own definitions to assemble and act, killing the mass at last. I celebrate the closing of the Mass Parenthesis. As for Gutenberg's Parenthesis, I do not cheer its end. Instead, I believe this is the moment to honor its existence and all it has brought us, and to learn from it as we enter a next age.







2
Print's Presumptions
Tom Pettitt cautions that the close of the Gutenberg Parenthesis is not a sharp border but a transition, not a moment but a passage of time. "The thin lines of the brackets convey an inappropriate abruptness, since both the opening and the closing of the Gutenberg Parenthesis may each encompass many decades or even centuries: the opening at least from the invention of printing ... to its widespread cultural deployment in the early seventeenth century; the closing from the introduction of electronic recording & communication to our Google revolution and doubtless beyond."1
Having advocated and popularized the categorization of an age, Pettitt, like other historians, is nevertheless wary of periodization. "The master narrative first put in place by the Renaissance is the cause of all our woe," said fellow medievalist Lee Patterson, lamenting that everything before the Renaissance, back to the dusk of Greco-Roman civilization, has been dismissed as a void, as "Dark Ages."

According to this universal scheme, the Renaissance is the point at which the modern world begins: humanism, nationalism, the proliferation of competing value systems, the secure grasp of a historical consciousness, aesthetic production as an end in itself, the conception of the natural world as a site of scientific investigation and colonial exploitation, the secularization of politics, the idea of the state, and, perhaps above all, the emergence of the idea of the individual—all of these characteristics and many others are thought both to set the Renaissance apart from the Middle Ages and to align it definitively with the modern world. As the name with which the Renaissance endowed it declares, the Middle Ages is a millennium of middleness, a space that serves simply to hold apart the first beginning of antiquity and the Renaissance rebeginning. And ever since the Renaissance, medieval premodernity has with few exceptions been experienced by modernity as "Gothic"—obscure, difficult, strange, alien.2

"Disparaging the 'Dark Ages,' " wrote Seb Falk in The Light Ages, "has always been about making ourselves seem better by comparison. But we should not award points for being like us. Viewing the past as an imperfectly developed version of the present day can lull us into complacency about the state of our own knowledge, allowing us to ignore what we still do not know or cannot do."3 In his thousand-year history, The Middle Ages, Johannes Fried blamed Kant for epochal snobbery, railing as the philosopher did against "childish and grotesque" gothic barbarians. "In the Enlightenment," Fried wrote, "everyone was in agreement that the Middle Ages was a backward era that exhibited no yearning for enlightenment, no sense of dynamism, and definitely no spirit of rebellion. This attitude is a curious phenomenon; no other advanced civilization on Earth has ever dismissed and denigrated a period of its own past so comprehensively, or even wished to airbrush it out of existence entirely through neglect, in the way that Europeans have done with the medieval era."4 Many others can be blamed for the darkened visage of the Middle Ages. "Petrarch was the first person to talk about the era after the Roman empire as a separate, bad period of shadow, misery, darkness, and decay," wrote historian Ada Palmer. Humanist Leonardo Bruni's History of the Florentine People, published in 1442, "for the first time formally divided history into three parts: ancient, middle, and modern, which we now call Renaissance," Palmer added. French historian Jules Michelet coined the term Renaissance in 1855. In his 1860 The Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy, Jacob Burckhardt popularized "modernity" and "modern" and gave the Renaissance a cause: individualism.5 Before, man suffered a "ban laid upon human personality," said Burckhardt, and "was conscious of himself only as a member of a race, people, party, family, or corporation—only through some general category."6 In short: a crowd.
The problem with periodization—like the problem of mass theory, which I will examine later—is that labels erase the humanity of the labeled. To regain a sense of the life of medieval people, to understand their defenders' zeal, to counteract their appropriation in noxious myth by the forces of present-day white supremacy,7 read Dutch historian Johan Huizinga's masterwork, newly and sonorously translated by Diane Webb as Autumntide of the Middle Ages. In it, he characterized the era this way: "So fierce and clamorous was life that it could endure the mingled odour of blood and roses. Between hellish oppressions and the most childish amusements, between horrible hard-heartedness and tearful tenderness, the populace staggers like a giant with a child's head. Between the complete renunciation of all worldly joy and an insane attachment to property and pleasure, between dark hatred and the most gleeful good nature, the people lived in extremes."8
Humanists, beginning with Petrarch, sparked their era, their Renaissance, by rediscovering and preserving the wisdom of the ancients, creating a demand for books and thus for scribes and perhaps for printing itself. In doing so they detoured around and devalued that which came in between. My point here is not to label and separate the ages—ancient, medieval, Renaissance; Early Modern, modern, postmodern; Dark Ages, Enlightenment; scribal culture, print culture, internet culture—but to find and rediscover their continuities. James Carey reminded us that writing was important in the Middle Ages and print was an effort to improve its quality. The printed book, then, is "an agent of the continuity of medieval culture rather than its rupture."9
To declare our age modern (or worse, postmodern) is a prideful dead-end that leaves no room for growth (or regression). As Spanish philosopher José Ortega y Gasset complained: "The very name is a disturbing one; this time calls itself 'modern,' that is to say, final, definitive, in whose presence all the rest is mere preterite, humble preparation and aspiration toward the present."10 Medievalist Kathleen Davis wrote that "the term 'modern' should be dropped altogether as an analytical tool to understand any aspect of history," maintaining that the concept of the Middle Ages "was not the brainchild of 'Renaissance' humanists, rather it came into being with and through colonialism, intertwined with nationalism, primarily in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries" so that European colonizers could attribute "medieval" (that is, racist) characteristics—"superstitious, religious, feudal, backward, irrational"—to not only their forebears but also to those they wished to subjugate.11
I am not a historian, just a journalist. Among my field's many arrogant claims is that we "write the first draft of history." That is to say that we ignore history; to us, everything must be new, thus news. I wish us all to learn from the experience of those who made the transition from one side of the Parenthesis to the other, into Gutenberg's age, as we now make the transition out of it. We will not do away with the past. Print is not superseded, replaced, or killed. The book will not die. Newspapers might die, for in their material form they are inefficient and economically unsustainable, and journalism as an institution may better meet its goals in new ways. In any case, print and text will live on in the net age, just as manuscripts and script continued for some time in print's age. Leaving the Parenthesis, we retain everything that was built and learned in print's time while also having the opportunity to restore values and a lost worldview from the time before.
As for that worldview: Lars Ole Sauerberg coined the term Gutenberg Parenthesis with a university colleague, Marianne Børch, in the mid-1990s. He said that movable type and print "affected not merely the material appearance of information and knowledge dissemination but also, in the process, the very nature of cognition"—how we think about the world. Today, that same process is occurring in inverse. "The closing of the Gutenberg Parenthesis symmetrically implies the opening up to a completely new and so far only partially glimpsed—let alone understood—cognitive situation."12 This is not to say, as some who are fearful of new technology contend, that machines will alter human brain cells and genes. It is only to say that as our media ecosystem changes, so too do our terms of reference for explaining our world. In the simplest expression, it will become progressively less meaningful to say that we "turn a page" in our lives, that our transparent selves are "open books," even that we have "the complete story" when we read on screens in scrolls that never end.-

Consider print's presumptions.
The time inside the Parenthesis is characterized by containment. Parenthesis, then, is not merely a metaphor but a worldview.
Print made publics and drove toward capitalism. Benedict Anderson combined those ideas in his theory of print-capitalism. It was in the economic interest of printers to fuse disparate dialects into formal languages, to sell more books. Thus print drew boundaries. Print helped establish the imagined communities we call nations.
Print, its culture and economy, gave birth to the concept of content: that writing, ideas, and creativity are commodities to fill a product, a publication, which can be sold. Print led us to the notion of creativity as asset, to the law of copyright and the doctrine of intellectual property, building a fence around the commons that was conversation.
Print pioneered industrialization, for as McLuhan would say, Gutenberg's invention was the "ditto device. ... It provided the first uniformly repeatable 'commodity,' the first assembly line—mass production."13
Print is one size for all. With mechanization, industrialization, and scale, print marched us toward mass media and the idea of the mass.
Print fostered a will to categorize in encyclopedias, botanicals, dictionaries, and libraries.
Print gave us a sense of abundance—too much to know—as it simultaneously traded on scarcity: only so many books, so many columns in a newspaper, so many pages to be published.
Print supported the ideal of freedom of speech. Throughout history, authorities have feared too much speech, leading them to many means of control: censorship, licensing, banning, burning.
Print provides fixity and the illusion of permanence, even the promise of immortality. In our present-day consciousness, print's immutability contributes to our cultural presumption that text-on-page carries greater authenticity than the spoken word.
Authority springs from the materiality of print as well as from the author's name and publisher's brand on the spine. Out of such a need for certification, these institutions were born: editor, publisher, critic, and author, in league with the university and the library.
Print gives special status to the author over the reader, separating them. For print is one-way, with no means for the reader to speak back or the author to listen.
Print led us toward silence and isolation, thus privacy, and away from performance in public.
Print favors completeness, a beginning and an end, so everything will fit within its covers. And so print loves the story, with its author, its narrative, its alpha and neat omega. Print fosters the illusion of endings.
French historian Roger Chartier said we could witness the contrast in pre- and post-print expectations of narrative played out in Don Quixote as Cervantes' hero became impatient with Sancho Panza's telling of a cuento de camino, a traveler's tale.

"If you tell your story this way, Sancho," said Don Quixote, "repeating everything you say two times, you will not finish in two days; tell it in a continuous way, and speak like a man of understanding, or do not say anything at all."
"The way I'm telling it," responded Sancho, "is how tales are told in my village; and I don't know any other way to tell it, and it isn't right for your grace to ask me to do things in new ways."
"Tell it however you wish," responded Don Quixote. "Fate has willed that I cannot help listening to you, and so continue."14

Said Chartier: "A man of books par excellence, even to crazy excess, Don Quixote becomes irritated by a story that lacks the form of those he ordinarily reads; Quixote really wants Sancho's recitation to conform to the rules of linear, objective, hierarchical writing. The distance between these expectations of a reader and the oral practice as Sancho learned it is insurmountable."15 Quixote, man of print, succumbed. Sancho continued his tale, which became a shaggy dog—or rather, goat—story as Sancho recounted a goatherd ferrying his herd of 300 across a river, one by one, directing Quixote to keep count, thereby to collaborate in the telling. Quixote lost count and patience and so Sancho stopped his telling.
"Do you mean to say that the story is finished?" said Don Quixote.
"As finished as my mother," said Sancho.16
Consider the flow of a story today. The net turns the narrative form inside-out as web sites, blogs, and social-media feeds start in the middle, with the latest in tales and conversations on top of streams that may never end, whose beginnings cannot necessarily be found. Perhaps that is a truer representation of reality: life as messy process rather than packaged narrative. Which should we trust now: the tale with its destination, or the stream of uncertainty? In the early days of print, word-of-mouth and rumor were more reliable and credible than the printed page, for one knew by name and reputation travelers with tales but knew nothing of who made books. Today, we worry about the internet as a source of disinformation, but we have yet to invent new institutions to address the problem, to suppress that which is wrong or better yet to find that which is true.
In the last section of this book, I will examine some of the choices we face: conversation versus content, the birth and death of the mass in opposition to community, control over creativity, and our institutions of trust and knowledge. On the way there, we will journey through the history of print—beginning with fears of it, tracing its invention and progress, examining its meaning, and witnessing the beginning of its end, viewing print first as a technology—for that is how we view the internet today—and then as an invitation to create.







3
Trepidation
To inform our journey out of the Gutenberg Parenthesis, let us hear from writers of two sorts—scribes and authors—who wrote about their experience of the transition into it. When one considers the epochal disturbance in the world order that would be brought on by this new technology, print, people of the time had plentiful cause for concern and scarce assurance of hope.
Scribes could be, for good and obvious reason, fearful of a mechanized competitor. Some looked forward to the opportunity to drop their pens. After copying part of Aquinas' Summa Theologica, a worn and drained scribe exclaimed with relief: "Here ends the second part of the work of Brother Thomas Aquinas of the Dominican Order, incredibly long, verbose and tedious for the scribe. Thank God, thank God, and again thank God!"1 Others were not so eager for relief. Filippo de Strata was a Benedictine friar, a poet, a master of theology, a scribe, and a curmudgeon for the ages.2 He was in Venice in 1469 when the first printer arrived and watched 150 more follow, the most renowned of whom would be Aldus Manutius, who produced books of eternal beauty and grace. Venice in this time became the center of quality printing in the world. But de Strata would have none of it. In 1473 or 1474, he wrote a polemic against printing, addressed to the doge Nicolo Marcello, begging on behalf of fellow writers (that is, scribes) for help to blunt the invasion of printers:

They shamelessly print, at a negligible price, material which may, alas, inflame impressionable youths, while a true writer dies of hunger. Cure (if you will) the plague which is doing away with the laws of all decency and curb the printers. They persist in their sick vices, setting Tibullus in type, while a young girl reads Ovid to learn sinfulness. Through printing, tender boys and gentle girls, chaste without foul stain take in whatever mars purity of mind or body; they encourage wantonness, and swallow up huge gain from it.... They basely flood the market with anything suggestive of sexuality, and they print the stuff at such a low price that anyone and everyone procures it for himself in abundance. And so it happens that asses go to school. The printers guzzle wine and, swamped in excess, bray and scoff. The Italian writer lives like a beast in a stall. The superior art of authors who have never known any other work than producing well-written books is banished. This glory pertains to you, Doge: to lay low the printing-presses. I beg you to do this, lest the wicked should triumph.
Writing indeed, which brings in gold for us, should be respected and held to be nobler than all goods, unless she has suffered degradation in the brothel of the printing presses. She is a maiden with a pen, a harlot in print.3

There was much occurring in de Strata's screed. There were economic complaints. As Martin Lowry explained, printers not only threatened to put scribes out of work, but printing's scale also ruined the market for rare and valuable books of the sort de Strata would have traded. De Strata exhibited a patrician snobbery: that the books he loved would be handled and mishandled by these grubby men who chose to publish gutter literature—Ovid!—and corrupt youth. He betrayed prejudice aimed at the mostly German intruders who brought printing with them from Gutenberg's land. He worried for the culture, for printers "were vulgarising intellectual life. The city was so full of books that it was hardly possible to walk down a street without finding armfuls of them thrust at you, 'like cats in a bag,' for two or three coopers." He warned—with prescience—that printing threatened the Church. Said Lowry, channeling de Strata: "Vernacular translations of the scriptures dimmed the beauty and twisted the subtle meaning of the Latin: now that cheap printed versions, prepared by unqualified profiteers, were circulating throughout society, simple people were bound to be led astray towards heresy, damnation, and hell."
De Strata has been quoted over time to represent the Luddites of his day. "Fra Filippo is a caricature of the reactionary: at one point he actually says that the world has got along perfectly well for six thousand years without printing, and has no need to change now," wrote Lowry. "When we set his words against their backdrop of surging expansion in press activity, it is easy to treat him with pity or ridicule as the last survivor of a doomed generation, screaming in the faces of a solid phalanx of nobleman, intellectuals, and artisans who march shoulder to shoulder towards enlightenment and a better life. But he cannot be brushed aside so easily."4 For his attitude toward printers and their products was not unique in his time.
An often-quoted defense of the scribes came from another Benedictine, Johannes Trithemius, the abbot of Sponheim, near Mainz, who wrote In Praise of Scribes (De Laude Scriptorum Manualium) in 1492. He did praise scribes, saying that "however useful the findings of the scholar may be, they would never reach posterity without the skill of the scribe. ... It is the scribes who lend power to words and give lasting value to passing things and vitality to the flow of time." But his essay was less a defense of scribes against the press than it was an admonition to scribes not to rest their quills. "Monks should not stop copying because of the invention of printing," he wrote. "There is no monastic work more appropriate, more useful, and closer to our vows than the office of copying."5
Trithemius worried about the longevity of a printed book, claiming it could last at most 200 years, and complaining that they are "often deficient in spelling and appearance," which was a fair criticism in the infancy of the craft. Yet he was no enemy of the printing press. He valued books as a "tower of knowledge" to ward off evil and celebrated the fact that printing made them less expensive and more accessible. Earning his reputation as the father of bibliography—the study and classification of books—Trithemius collected about 2,000 volumes in Sponheim, which was, according to his biographer, Noel Brann, "one of the best collections of texts in Europe before the fifteenth century was out, the great majority of them made up of printed incunabula" (the earliest printed books).6 Trithemius warned against the "immoderate" love of books, a covetous temptation with which he clearly grappled. He was a humanist, dedicated to finding and preserving the work of the ancients in the hope of returning to a golden age of ancient monasticism. "Read against this larger backdrop, the Praise of Scribes will be adjudged as little more than a pièce d'occasion directed at a specific problem of the cloister posed by the invention of printing, provoked by obstreperous monks seeking an excuse to evade the strenuous duties of the scriptorium," said Brann.7
Trithemius wrote a history of printing, proud to debunk the myth that the industry had begun in Italy and affirmed "that marvelous and previously unheard-of art of printing and the impression of books" was "invented and devised by the Mainz citizen Johann Gutenberg." He heaped praise on the technology: "O blessed art of printing, long to be remembered as belonging to our age!"8 Trithemius was torn about this still-new technology, just as we are about the new technology affecting our lives. In his outline for an encyclopedia of demonology he never got around to writing, he planned a chapter under the title, "Whether the art of printing is more useful than injurious to the Church."9

Advance another century, to the early seventeenth, and Miguel de Cervantes was grappling with the effects of the book, good and bad, on his creation, Don Quixote. The good knight spent all his time reading books and "in his rash curiosity and folly he went so far as to sell acres of arable land in order to buy books of chivalry to read, and he brought as many of them as he could into his house." The books included such wisdom as this: "The reason for the unreason to which my reason turns so weakens my reason that with reason I complain of thy beauty."
Cervantes diagnosed Quixote's condition: "In short, our gentleman became so caught up in reading that he spent his nights reading from dusk till dawn and his days reading from sunrise to sunset, and so with too little sleep and too much reading his brains dried up, causing him to lose his mind. His fantasy filled with everything he had read in his books, enchantments as well as combats, battles, challenges, wounds, courtings, loves, torments, and other impossible foolishness, and he became so convinced in his imagination of the truth of all the countless grandiloquent and false inventions he read that for him no history in the world was truer."10
Quixote succumbed to the immoderate love of books, of which Trithemius had warned. In the determination of his niece and his priest, it was Quixote's devotion to reading about the lost art and ethic of chivalry that enchanted him and would drive him to his insane quest to slay his beasts. They sought to protect him. "The priest asked the niece for the keys to the room that contained the books responsible for the harm that had been done, and she gladly gave them to him. All of them went in, including the housekeeper, and they found more than a hundred large volumes, very nicely bound, and many smaller ones; and as soon as the housekeeper saw them, she hurried out of the room and quickly returned with a basin of holy water." In what followed, Cervantes brought judgment on authors who had come before, with the priest acting as his agent, sifting through the books, and the barber representing the reader. They began with the first book on chivalry printed in Spain. The priest judged it "the doctrine of so harmful a sect," but the barber defended it as "the best of all books of this kind ever written, and as a unique example of the art, it should be pardoned." "That's true," said the priest, "and so we'll spare its life for now. Let's see the one next to it."11

Victor Hugo, too, judged the consequences of print in The Hunchback of Notre Dame, itself a call to respect and restore what came before the Parenthesis—the gothic. That word, "gothic," became as much a dismissive insult to a time and a people as "Dark Ages," coming to connote the destruction by the Goths, the barbarians blamed for the fall of Rome. Gothic became an architectural model and name for the dark, ornate typefaces Gutenberg inspired with his Bible.
"The Revolution of 1789 brought the desanctification, decay, and often the destruction of cathedrals and churches," wrote Julie Lawrence Cochran. France was buffeted from revolution to restoration, regime to regime, but in these gothic buildings Hugo saw a national identity worth restoring. "He associated the glorious ruins with a time of belief, kingdom, and greatness for France."12 Hugo wrote articles lamenting the destruction of gothic buildings. "The hammer that mutilates the face of the country has to be stopped," he declared in an 1825 essay that established him as one of the inspirations for the heritage preservation movement.13 In 1832's "War on the Demolishers," Hugo wrote: "Every day some old memory of France goes away with the stone on which it was written. Every day we break some letter of the venerable book of tradition."14 And so, in Notre-Dame de Paris—published in French in 1831 under that, his preferred title—Hugo placed the building and the book in opposition: "The archdeacon silently gazed at the gigantic edifice; then with a sign, stretching his right hand towards the printed book which lay open on the table, and his left hand towards Notre-Dame, with a melancholy glance from book to church, he said, 'Alas! The one will kill the other.' "15
The following chapter, "The One Will Kill the Other," was one of three left out of the original edition of the novel. It is a beautiful meditation on society in transition from one means of self-expression to the next. Hugo's story was set in 1482, only a dozen years after the first book was printed at the Sorbonne. It was published in 1832, two years after the July Revolution, just as steam power would bring the book to the masses, the mobs, the vagrants who would people Hugo's plot.
Hugo contended that from the beginning of time, or at least building, architecture was "the great writing of mankind." He wrote that "every popular idea as well as every religious law has had its monument in fact, that the human race has never had an important thought which it has not written in stone. And why? It is because every thought, whether religious or philosophic, is interested in its own perpetuation; because an idea which has stirred one generation desires to stir others, and to leave its trace. Now, what a precarious immortality is that of the manuscript! How far more solid, lasting, and enduring a book is a building! A torch and a Turk are enough to destroy written words; it takes a social or a terrestrial revolution to destroy the constructed word." And then:

In the fifteenth century everything changed.
Human thought discovered a means of perpetuation, not only more durable and more resisting than architecture, but also simpler and easier. Architecture was dethroned. To the stone letters of Orpheus succeeded the leaden letters of Gutenberg.
"The book will destroy the building."
The invention of printing was the greatest event in history. It was the primal revolution. It was the renewed and renovated form of expression of humanity; it is human thought laying off one form and assuming another; it is the entire and final changing of the skin of that symbolic serpent which ever since Adam has represented intellect.16

Perhaps not the final.
Hugo empathized with the archdeacon's melancholy. "It was the terror of a true ecclesiastic at the sight of a new agent—printing. It was the fear and confusion of the man of the sanctuary at sight of Gutenberg's light-giving press. It was the pulpit and the manuscript, the spoken word and the written word, taking fright at the printed word." It was the loss of control. When the architect loses control, the artisans gain liberty. "Carving becomes sculpture, picture-making becomes painting, the canon becomes music." Hugo celebrated the new but wished to preserve that which it displaced. Of course, the priest was right to be frightened and Hugo understood: "Before the invention of printing, the Reformation would have been but a schism; the invention of printing made it a revolution. Take away the press, and heresy is unnerved. Whether it be due to Providence or to fate, Gutenberg was the precursor to Luther."17
Hugo ended his story with the mob storming the cathedral. "Moreover, the vast edifice remains forever unfinished. The press, that gigantic machine which untiringly sucks up all the intellectual sap of society, unceasingly vomits forth fresh material for its work. All mankind are on the scaffolding. Every mind is a mason. ... Here, too, there is a confusion of tongues, an incessant activity, an indefatigable industry, a frantic co-operation of all humanity; it is the refuge promised to intellect against another deluge, against the flood of barbarians. It is the second Tower of Babel of the Human race."18
I will begin our saga of the transition into the Parenthesis with the inventor. I will end this book with all humankind on the scaffolding, building what comes next.







PART II
Inside the Parenthesis

 
Johannes Gutenberg opened a door to the conceit of the modern. He was a technologist. For printing to succeed, he had to experiment with and solve myriad problems of metallurgy, chemistry, and mechanical engineering. He was an archetype of the entrepreneur. He started, raised funds for, and risked his livelihood in multiple businesses. He pioneered industrialization. Latter-day concepts of standardization and scale, not to mention the assembly line, owe much to him. He did not cause the Reformation, the Enlightenment, the Scientific Revolution, the flowering of humanism, the Thirty Years' War, a revolution in education, the emergence of popular literature, the birth of journalism, the roots of capitalism, or the rise of nation-states—each of which has been attributed in some part to his machine. Yet each in its way exploited and depended on his invention. Nothing was made inevitable by Gutenberg, but much was made possible.
We cannot know Gutenberg's motive for creating the industry of printing. Was it to unite the Catholic Church with the production of standard missals and Bibles? In Martin Luther's hands, printing accomplished just the opposite, tearing the Church apart. Was it to get rich? Gutenberg did not become wealthy, though neither did he die penniless, as legend has it. Was it for posterity? It appears not, for we have no evidence that Gutenberg ever used his own machines—which would feed the vanity and fame of countless authors—to print his thoughts, let alone his own name. What we know of the man is inferred from the work of those who followed him and from scant documents of his time.
Just as we today would not have the internet without prior invention in computing and communications, likewise Gutenberg depended on earlier technology and art, on new mobility opening new markets, and on social progress and unrest that gave rise to displacement and opportunity. Even a few generations earlier, the pieces of printing's puzzle might not have fit together. A bit later and someone else might have been credited as the inventor of the craft. Movable type, said Gutenberg biographer John Man, "was an invention waiting to happen."1 Perhaps. Even so, it was an invention that required ingenuity and untold experimentation. Said another biographer, Albert Kapr: "Gutenberg can only be understood as a man of his age—caught up in the tensions between the Middle Ages and the Renaissance. His personality brings together the devout yet superstitious representative of the old established order, and the inventive, steadfast seeker and striver after more knowledge typical of a new, middle-class and mercantile society."2 Surely without knowing it, Gutenberg stood atop a watershed of history and played his role in shifting its flow.







4
What Came Before
Much innovation had to be in place before Gutenberg. For example, there is the space between words. Until the later days of the Roman Empire, words in Latin and ancient Mediterranean languages had been separated with spaces or dots raised to the middle of the line, called interpuncts. Both gradually disappeared in about the second century AD, coincident with the introduction of written vowels. For half a millennium in Europe, Greek, Latin, and vernacular languages were written without spaces. Text was recorded as scriptura continua, a relentless parade of letters in heavy scribal penmanship without separation, punctuation, or capitalization to delineate words, making to our modern eyes an unintelligible puzzle. As literacy was the province of an elite—and the highly skilled scribes and the scribal slaves who wrote and read for them—there was little motivation to make reading any easier. "Indeed," wrote a scholar of the space, Paul Saenger, "an ambiguous text format enhanced the mystery and power of clerics."1 As book historian Elizabeth Eisenstein said: "Closed systems, secretive attitudes and even mental barriers served important social functions."2
In the scribes' time, the purpose of writing was primarily oral, recording and prompting spoken language and aiding in the memorization of scarce and sacred texts. Doing so without spaces makes some sense, Saenger maintained, when one realizes that children learning to write often omit spaces; they are recording a string of sounds that to their ears is continuous. Hearing people speak a foreign tongue before learning it, it is difficult to make out words from a rapid stream of syllables without break or apparent breath. The spoken word is continuous; so was the written. "Languages that exist only in oral form do not have a word for 'word.' " Saenger asserted, "because they do not have a conception of the linguistic unit that constitutes a word."3
Inspired by Arabic and Semitic writing, which used spaces, scribes in Ireland in the seventh century began separating words again in Latin and in the earliest surviving English books. The practice spread across Europe—sometimes first separating phrases rather than words—becoming the standard by the twelfth century. With scriptura continua, the job of separating words had fallen to the reader; now, it was the task of the scribes. By inserting spaces, they gave shape to the word. We do not read a letter at a time; we recognize words quickly by their familiar and complete contours. Saenger referred to this as the Bouma shape. When one sees the word "existence," for example, an experienced reader does not parse its letters or sound out its syllables but instead instantly recognizes the shape of the whole of the word's letters.
Using spaces to separate words "freed the intellectual faculties of the reader, permitting all text to be read silently, that is, with the eyes alone," Saenger wrote. Separating words also gave definition to the word as an entity distinct from the sound and the letters representing it, from the syllable, and from the phrase. Once the word was defined as an independent unit, then distinct parts of speech could be identified, word order could be standardized, and punctuation could be created to give cues as to both sound (how long to pause) and sense (for example, humanist scribes invented quotation marks and parentheses). And spelling no longer needed to be phonetic, leading to the borrowing of words with their native spelling from other languages, the medieval invention of the dictionary, and the discipline of grammar.4
Saenger correlated the spread of the space with private and silent reading. There is some debate about the early practice of reading aloud. In A History of Reading, Alberto Manguel cited St. Augustine in his Confessions, marveling at having watched St. Ambrose, bishop of Milan, in the year 383: "When he read, his eyes scanned the page and his heart sought out the meaning, but his voice was silent and his tongue still." Manguel concluded: "Augustine's description of Ambrose's silent reading (including the remark that he never read aloud) is the first definite instance recorded in Western literature."5 Princeton medievalist D. Vance Smith, on the other hand, maintained that Augustine was instead "surprised by his rudeness at not reading out loud to share with him."6
In any case, as reading became easier, such that more people could engage in the skill, they wanted more to read. That rising popularity, Saenger said, led to other changes, which "included the beginnings of individual authorship as we know it, the textual expression of intimate feelings, including erotica, as well as private writing for one's own purposes and the possibility of a new intimacy linking author, text, and reader." Word separation "also produced innovations in book production, grammatical theory, and the language of mathematics: technological improvements in the furnishings of the scriptorium"—moving texts from the scribes' knees to tables—"the copying of texts without conceptually processing them, in the manner of the modern typist, grammatical refinements based on the new sense of the word as an integral unit, and the enrichment of mathematical notation."7
Note the relationship of the simple space with privacy and individuality. In the time of scriptura continua, authors tended to dictate to scribes; thus writing occurred before an audience. When authors began to inscribe their own words, they could do so in privacy. Private reading gave way to private writing, which made way to private thoughts—as well as private heresies, religious skepticism, political subversion, and pornography—and to a new age in education, as students were expected to read silently. "Psychologically, silent reading emboldened the reader because it placed the source of his curiosity completely under personal control," Saenger said.8
As words took on new shape, so did the letters used to build them. Just when the space between words was reappearing in some parts of Europe in the eighth century, the emperor Charlemagne, never completely literate himself, "commissioned the first standard lowercase letters to create a unified script that all his literate subjects could read."9 Scribal text had been made with thick strokes appropriate for scribes' quills or stonemasons' chisels. The monk Alcuin of York designed the Carolingian miniscule, a scribal font that—together with inscriptions of capital letters from Rome—would inspire the design of roman typefaces seven centuries later.

In the first century AD in Rome, at the same time that the space was disappearing, a new form of the book was emerging: the codex. The scroll that had been dominant in many cultures was now cut into uniform pieces, bound at the side rather than end to end, giving shape to the book and the page as we know them. The codex was more convenient, allowing the reader to move forward and back efficiently and randomly to any point. As a product, the codex was more efficient and economical than the scroll because writing could now cover both sides of expensive parchment. Here is the start of a lovely cycle in the development of text: first the continuous scroll; next pages in the codex and eventually pages on Gutenberg's press; then the invention of paper-making machines that could produce the continuous roll of paper to feed powered rotary presses at high speed; eventually to the online web "page"; and finally (for now) to apps that scroll continuously, practically forever, so as to never let loose of a reader's attention: scroll to page to scroll to page to scroll.
The codex bound various writing surfaces. Gutenberg printed on both vellum—treated calfskin—and paper. Without the development of high-quality paper, smooth and able to absorb ink evenly, printing at scale would not have been feasible. Before paper—and besides cave walls and stone—people wrote on portable means including clay tablets, papyrus (peeled layers from reeds hammered into sheets and pasted into scrolls, often twenty sheets long), bamboo, tree bark, pieces of wood, wax tablets, silk, and various animal hides (parchment). To watch the making of parchment—treating hides, scraping off fur and meat, stretching and drying, scraping again and smoothing—is to appreciate the value of the written word.10
Credit for inventing paper has been given to a Chinese man named Cai Lun in AD 105—by distant coincidence in the same period as the codex appeared and the space disappeared. However the legend is ruined by discoveries of paper fragments in China that date their creation to two or three centuries before him.11 Nevertheless, the Chinese get credit for discovering how to chop and hammer fabric, hemp, fishnets, and tree bark into a cellulose soup, diluting it with clean water, and then dipping a mold into the mixture to come up with paper, its fibers overlapping and interlocking to create a smooth surface. The Chinese used paper for clothing, wrapping, lanterns, fans, prayers, ceremonies, kites, cups—and yes, the toilet—as well as for art and words.12 Within a century, paper spread to East Asia, then by the seventh century to Japan (where it quickly took off) and India (where it didn't immediately). It is through the Arabs that paper eventually made its way to Europe.
After the founding of Islam in the seventh century, writing spread, as did the need for paper. With the Muslim conquest of the Iberian Peninsula, paper arrived in what is now Spain. Andalusia became a center for the manufacture of paper, which was exported to Sicily and Italy as well as France and England. Italy took up the mantle of paper manufacture, with new mills in Fabriano in the latter half of the thirteenth century, where two key innovations were made: the water-powered hammer, to make the process of manufacturing pulp more efficient, and the wire-mesh mold, to make the production of paper more uniform. Thus scale came to paper-making, with a Fabriano papermaker expected to produce more than a million sheets a year.13 The citizens of Fabriano complained about the noise and smell of the paper mills, and so some craftsmen left town and the trade spread. In 1390, the first mill in Germany, in Nuremberg, was established. That would seem to set the stage to supply Gutenberg's business, but some book historians say he imported high-quality paper for his Bible from Italy, while more recent research into watermarks in Gutenberg's Bible indicates that his stock might have come from closer.14
Gutenberg was by no means the first to invent movable type. The Chinese led here as well. Seals, a precursor to block printing, were mentioned in 255 BC, after coming to China from the Babylonians and Sumerians. Shelton Gunaratne recounted other early Chinese developments included bronze casting, a precursor to founding movable type, as early as 600 BC, and rubbing engraved stone tablets by 175; ink followed. The first known work of block printing or xylography in China was a Buddhist charm scroll printed as early as AD 704. The first known printed book, the Diamond Sutra, a Buddhist prayer book, was made with blocks in 868. By then, block printing had spread to Korea. Some say the first printed newspaper was Jing Bao, an official publication begun in 713. Playing cards were made with block printing in the late tenth century.
The Chinese also created movable type in the eleventh century when Bi Sheng experimented with porcelain type stuck to a heated iron plate with resin, wax, and ash; after the plate was reheated, letters could be removed and reused. Of course, Chinese efforts to develop the technology were complicated by the need to produce so many characters. In the late thirteenth century, Chinese magistrate Wang Zhen had a font carved from wood with 60,000 Chinese characters, a subset of the 200,000 in use at the time. At about the time of Gutenberg's birth, in the early 1400s, Korea's King Taejong had bronze type molded in sand. As Gutenberg began printing, King Sejong the Great ordered the creation of a simplified, 28-character (now 24-character) Korean alphabet called Hangul to encourage higher literacy among the lower classes. Some scoffed at it, calling Hangul "sound writing," and the elite continued to prefer writing with Chinese characters, called Hanja or "true letters." Still, a metal-type foundry in Korea produced a font of 100,000 characters made in bronze in 1403.15
Gunaratne justly complained that "the evolution of printing began in ancient China, even though the Eurocentric interpretation of history attempts to trace it to European 'exceptionalism' that supposedly emerged in the 15th century."16 In his book 1434: The Year a Magnificent Chinese Fleet Sailed to Italy and Ignited the Renaissance, Gavin Menzies emphasized that Venetians were printing cards and other items on paper and cloth before 1441. He contended that ambassadors aboard the Chinese fleet must have wanted to educate "the stupid barbarians" of Venice about the benefits of printing.17 Did Marco Polo's mention of Chinese printed money in 1298 seep into Gutenberg's consciousness and inspiration? Is there a direct line from Wang Jie or Bi Sheng to Johannes Gutenberg? We do not know.
Printing produced not only text but images. Woodblock printing of drawings was an important predecessor to movable type. Wood engravings and etchings on metal appeared in books soon after Gutenberg. "It is too often forgotten that images replicated on wood and metal were introduced at more or less the same time as Gutenberg's invention," said Eisenstein. "On this point we ought to follow George Sarton's advice and think of a double invention: typography for text and engraving for images. Otherwise we are likely to reinforce the mistaken notion that printing entailed a one way movement from image to word."18
One might argue that any number of inventions could be credited as a tipping point in the history of text, reading, writing, and illustration. Augustine, following Aristotle, saw that letters were "signs of sounds" that were "invented so that we might be able to converse even with the absent."19 In notes for his unfinished masterwork on the history of communication, Harold Innis gave considerable weight to the invention of paper, quoting historian Prosper Boissannade, who observed that paper would "facilitate the diffusion of the works of human intelligence."20 Roger Chartier advised that we "must reinscribe the emergence of the printing press in the long-term history of the forms of the book," from scroll to codex, from book to screen.21 Each of these inventions, in its way, displaced a scarcity with abundance, brought new means for communication to more people, and spread and recorded more information.
Chartier provided two reasons why printing practices are critical to the study of European culture. "First, they fix or convey speech, which means that they cement sociabilities and prescribe behavior, cross into both private and public space, and give rise to belief, imagination, and action. They overturn the whole culture, coming to terms with traditional forms of communication and establishing new distinctions." Second, Chartier wrote, "they permit the circulation of writing on an unprecedented scale. Printing lowers the cost of the book's manufacture because the cost is distributed among all the copies of an edition rather than being supported by a single copy. In addition, printing shortens the time of production, which was very long for books in manuscript." The result, Chartier maintained, is that "after Gutenberg, the entire culture of the West could be considered a culture of print, because the products of presses and typographical composition, rather than being reserved for administrative and ecclesiastical uses as in China or Korea, themselves influenced all relations and practices."22
Without the inventions that came before, there would be no Gutenberg. They set the table for him, as did the disruption of his time. The fourteenth century had brought famine and the Black Death to Europe. "In the worldview of those living then it was an age of approaching apocalypse and for most a wretched time," wrote Gutenberg biographer Kapr. "War, hunger, plague and other illnesses, lice and fleas, tormented people." Also in the early fourteenth century, Petrarch gave spark to humanism, recalling and honoring the wisdom of the ancients and thereby creating a demand for the means to discover, study, preserve, duplicate, and distribute their writing—and in that pursuit, respecting the human ability to learn and improve. And in Gutenberg's powerful and prosperous birthplace of Mainz, power struggles among the city's patriarchs, the rising commercial guilds, and the Church brought discord and dispute, creating a fertile ground for Gutenberg's tools of disruption. It was into this time and place that Johannes Gensfleisch was born a few years this side or that of the start of the fifteenth century.







5
How to Print
And here the reader will find just cause to wonder, that this Art, which has been stiled the nurse and preserver of arts and sciences should (if I may use the expression) be so forgetful of itself, as not to leave us the least sketch of its history.
— London printer Samuel Palmer in the 1730s.1

We have no direct evidence of how Gutenberg did his job except from knowing how printers who came after him—and for the next four centuries—did their work; from clues in a few legal documents involving him; and from evidence gleaned from the books he printed. The process of printing by movable type and hand-press was not documented until long after Gutenberg's work in the 1450s. The first known letter describing some of the process was written in 1534 and the first complete manual of printing, by Joseph Moxon, was published in 1683.2 Accordingly, some book historians accuse others of projecting later experience onto earlier gaps in knowledge. Researchers have gone to stunning lengths in forensic analysis of type, paper, watermarks, the position of registry pinholes in printed pages, the chemistry of the ink, and the sequence of printing, to gain any clues as to the process in Gutenberg's shop. Here I will describe the method as best it might be pieced together.
We often speak about Gutenberg inventing the printing press, but that was the least of it. Presses were already used to manufacture wine, olive oil, and paper and to bind books. Astonishing innovation and meticulous work were required in many other disciplines: methods of casting type; experiments with metallurgy and ink chemistry; planning of page composition; selection and preparation of paper; and press construction. It is impossible to tell how Gutenberg began, where his inspiration lay, and which was the first problem he attacked. We do know he had experience working with metals and had a prior business making objects of tin and lead. So let us start there, with the metal letters.
Gutenberg needed to mold an estimated 100,000 individual letters—called sorts—to print his Bible on multiple presses. He chose a scribal exemplar to copy the shape of each letter; some credit one of his assistants, a scribe named Peter Schöffer, as a possible designer of the Bible's font. Gutenberg's aim, as we see from the end product, was not to eliminate the scribes but to replicate and automate their work, even to perfect it. "The manuscript books of Gutenberg's time were not ... primitive precursors of printed books," said M.T. Clanchy. "On the contrary, they presented an image of perfection, encapsulating a thousand years of experience."3 And so Gutenberg's font mimicked the letters from a scribe's hand: heavy and dark, made of thick, downward strokes such that a page filled with it resembled woven cloth. The resulting typeface was known as textura, also as gothic or black letter.4
On one end of a rod of a hard metal, likely steel, a letter was traced in reverse, as mirror image. So the metal would be workable, the steel first had to be softened or annealed by heating it up and cooling it slowly. The type founder used a set of tools, including files (to shape and smooth), gravers (a sharp device to carve), and counterpunches (another piece of hardened metal with which to hammer shapes, such as the empty spaces in a "B"). The resulting product, with the single letter standing out in relief on one end, was the punch, sometimes called the patrix. How long would this work take? A century later, publisher Christophe Plantin's contract with his punch cutter called for a day's labor to cut a single letter.5 Once the letter was complete, the steel was heated again and then quickly cooled in water to harden it so it could take the many blows it would soon make.
The next step was to hammer the punch onto a smooth piece of softer metal, usually copper, creating a positive impression of the letter with precise dimensions: up and down, right and left, and in depth. This was the matrix, or the mold. The founder needed to justify it, filing away the excess metal that had been displaced in hammering, to assure an even surface. Princeton librarian and book historian Paul Needham calculated that the Bible's font was made up of 270 distinct matrices and sets of sorts. Of these, only about fifty-five were needed to set the text of the Bible with a full complement of capitals, lower-case letters, and punctuation. Of the rest, sixty were ligatures (as when the cross-stroke of the "f" connects directly with the top of an "i" to create the aesthetically pleasing and space-saving pair "fi"), and 120 were abbreviations, which would have been familiar to readers of scribal text. For example, "qm" with a flat line over the "m" was short for quoniam; its use saved effort for the scribe and space for the compositor. For comparison, in the late nineteenth century, near the end of the era of hand typesetting, a printing office's full complement of sorts for a given font would include about 125 letters, numbers, and punctuation, plus spaces.6 A standard order of 800 pounds of lead type from the foundry included a range of quantities for individual sorts from 12,000 pieces for the most-used letter in English—the lower-case "e"—to 400 each for little-used "x" and "j."7
Now came the true ingenuity of printing with movable type: the handheld mold needed to manufacture each sort. The mold that was used well into the 1800s is a mystifying gadget of brass or steel and insulating wood in two pieces held together by screws and a long, curved metal rod acting as a spring. The two halves are taken apart so the matrix—the mold—can be inserted in the bottom. The width of the empty space into which the metal will be poured is adjustable to account for the varying width of letters and punctuation: an "i" or a period taking up much less space than a capital "M." The founder pours molten metal in the mold and swiftly jerks up to force the metal into every crevice of the matrix. Almost instantly, the metal is cool and hard, so the spring can be released, the mold breaks in two, and the sort is plucked out, with the letter perfectly formed—in reverse again—on the top. Excess metal on the bottom is broken off. Then many sorts are placed together on a stick so their rough and uneven edges and bottoms can be scraped off, making them all of uniform measurement; this is again called justifying the type. By 1740, founders using this mold could cast up to four pieces of type a minute. Accounting for a slower pace, Kapr estimated a founder in Gutenberg's shop could have made 600 a day and that it likely took six months to produce all the type needed to keep multiple compositors and presses busy on the Bible.8 Each punch could be used to make multiple matrices, each matrix could be used to make multiple sorts, and each sort could be used to print multiple pages. That is why McLuhan called printing the ditto device.
In 1885, more than four centuries after the hand mold I just described was finally abandoned in favor of type-casting machinery, The American Bookmaker described with admiration the disappearing artistry of the type founder wielding his tool: "To witness for the first time the operations of twenty or thirty hand-casters, and notice the various contortions of body, limbs and even features, produced while casting type, would suggest the thought that they were all afflicted with the worst forms of St. Vitus' dance. The incessant and rapid motion of the body to act in sympathy, made hand-casting a very exhausting labor, yet by this method it was no uncommon occurrence for an expert caster to average 9,000 to 12,000 types of, say, brevier"—a small size of type—"per day, or at the rate of about 15 to 20 per minute." When the process of pouring metal into molds was at last mechanized in the nineteenth century, "the machine running by steam power is capable of casting 70,000 per day, or about 120 per minute. The hand-mold is now seldom used except by fitters testing the matrices."9
Whether Gutenberg used the hand mold is debated. In 2001, Princeton's Needham and Blaise Agüera y Arcas, a recent graduate in physics who went on to become a leader in machine intelligence at Google, performed photographic and computational analysis of every letter "i" in a 1456 papal bull printed by Gutenberg. "The most obvious conclusion consistent with our evidence is that each physical piece of type was manufactured individually, and was not the outcome of a mass-reproduction process at all."10 They theorized that Gutenberg used another method: sand-casting, in which the letter would be carved into fine, densely packed sand to make molds that would end up destroyed after each use.11 "Thus," declared book historian Joseph Dane, "what print historians have for over a century described as the 'essence' of the invention, the adjustable hand-mold, disappears from printing history."12
Not so fast. Stephan Füssel—the leading Gutenberg scholar of our time and holder of the Gutenberg Chair at Johannes Gutenberg University in Mainz—and a university colleague, Christoph Reske, protested that the Princeton study did not take into account the heavy viscosity of Gutenberg's ink, which was made in batches of varying formulae; uneven inking of letters, page to page and letter to letter; imperfections in the handmade paper; and varying pressure from the press—all of which, they said, could account for the idiosyncrasies of each "i."13 Researchers working with replicas of Gutenberg's type and studying type designer Nicolas Jenson's fonts used by various printers found that letters cast from the same molds could vary with differences in inking, casting, wear, and the dampness and quality of paper.14
The earliest documented references to type punches and matrices came in the record books of a Florence monastery in 1477 and in Jenson's will in 1480.15 The earliest image of a mold came in a woodcut by Jost Amman in 1568, showing a gentleman pouring hot metal into a tiny container over his hand and knee, jeopardizing both with severe burns; as a result, some doubt the authenticity of what it portrays. The first definitive description of the hand mold—and of the entire process of printing—did not come until 1683 with Moxon's painstaking manual for printers, Mechanick Exercises on the Whole Art of Printing.16 We will never know for certain how Gutenberg molded the type to print his Bible. But mold type, he did.
The molten stew of metals presented its own challenges, no doubt requiring considerable experimentation by the metallurgist Gutenberg. In his 1940 book, Gutenberg and the Strasbourg Documents of 1439, Otto Fuhrmann explained the criteria by which metals had to be chosen: "Those with a low melting point, easy to cast, are too soft; the harder ones have a high melting point which makes rapid casting impossible." If the metal needs to be too hot, then it will be difficult and dangerous to work with and the process will be slowed dramatically waiting for it to cool and harden. And hard metals will oxidize when washed with the lye likely needed to clean ink off type between printing impressions. Metals that are too soft will be smashed under the pressure of the printing press. So, Fuhrmann said, this eliminated tin, lead, zinc, copper, and iron on their own. An alloy combining metals and their properties was needed. The two alloys that come immediately to mind—brass and bronze—would not work because they shrink upon cooling and thus will not be uniform, letter to letter. Antimony does the trick, for it does not shrink on cooling and adds strength to lead and tin. The resulting recipe—determined from analysis of sixteenth- and early seventeenth-century metal type unearthed from latrines and other sites in Mainz, Wittenberg, and elsewhere in Germany—was eighty to eighty-five percent lead, two to nine percent tin, and eight to fifteen percent antimony, with traces of copper.17 That approximate formula was used for five centuries, until the very end of the "hot type" era in the last Linotype machines of the twentieth century.
At the Gutenberg Museum in Mainz, the process of molding type is demonstrated every day for tourists and schoolchildren. Each time, the stand-in Gutenberg takes a ladle of the molten metal cooking at about 500°F, dramatically splashes it across a table, and then instantly picks it up, to gasps of horror from parents and chaperones in the crowd. The metal cools that quickly. That is what allowed a type founder to work at great speed. "That was accomplished by Gutenberg, whose lengthy and costly experiments have a modern counterpart in Edison's more than three hundred attempts to find a fibre suitable for his incandescent lamp," boasted Fuhrmann.18

Once completed, the thousands of individual pieces of type, the sorts, are distributed in a two-part type case with compartments for each letter—capitals in the upper case, language that continues to the typewriter and the word processor. The compositor selects one letter at a time to place on a composing stick set to the width of the column. (Joseph Dane doubted the use of composing sticks this early.19) Then the compositor justifies the type—using the word justify again in yet another context, in this case meaning that the type is set so that it lines up perfectly along the right and left sides of a column. To do this, lead spaces of varying width are added between words. If the last word on the line needs to be hyphenated, in Gutenberg's beautiful Bible that hyphen protrudes past the right column, making the columns appear even more uniform. Once multiple lines are set, they are added to the growing column of type in the galley and then into a page form, which is locked in place by wood blocks and metal wedges called quoins. This work is done on a table called the stone. A complete page of the Bible included about 2,600 letters.
The work of the compositor—who needed to be as literate as he was dexterous, able to spell and punctuate correctly—continued virtually unchanged until the advent of the typesetting machine, the Linotype, at the end of the nineteenth century. Near the end of the age of handset composition, in 1878, Philadelphia type founder and publisher Thomas MacKellar (his firm cast the first dollar sign in type20) described the task in his manual for printers:

The left hand, which contains the composing-stick, should always follow the right, which takes up the letters. If the left be kept stationary, considerable time is lost in bringing each letter to the stick, because the right hand has, consequently, to traverse a much greater space than is necessary. The eye should always precede the hand, constantly seeking for the next letter while the fingers are picking up one just selected. Each letter should be taken up by the upper end. This method will effectually prevent any false motion, and preclude the necessity of turning the letter when in the hand. If possible, a sentence of the copy should be taken at one time, and, while putting in the point [punctuation] and quadrate [spacing] at the end of the sentence, the eye may revert to the copy for the next. It is to dexterity in these particulars that compositors are indebted for swiftness. The time thus gained is very considerable, while all appearance of bustle or fatigue is avoided. By taking a sentence into the memory at one time, the connection of the subject is preserved, and the punctuation rendered less difficult.21

Using analysis of typesetting, ink, and paper, Needham estimated that the Bible's text was separated into a dozen units, allowing separate compositors to work independently to feed pages into the estimated six presses working simultaneously. The composing room had to employ a set of tricks to assure that the end of one segment of pages, put together by one compositor, would fit exactly with the start of the text in the next pages, which were put together by another compositor and might already have been printed. These tricks, Needham said, included greater or lesser use of abbreviations (from nearly 300 per page to half that number in one instance) and adjusting interword spacing.22
The first and best-known Gutenberg Bible, known as the B42, is set with forty-two lines of type in two columns, except for the first few pages, set with forty and then forty-one lines. Gutenberg might have changed midstream because of cost—saving an estimated five percent of paper and vellum—or aesthetics. When he decided to increase his press run and print more Bibles, he had to reset early pages, and those were set at forty-two lines. Gutenberg was most generous with white space, leaving deep margins on the top and left and double that on the right and bottom; as time would progress, white space would disappear from printed work on expensive paper. Magazine and newspaper designers—and particularly advertisers—brought white space back into vogue in the middle of the last century.
In the earliest stages of his work, Gutenberg went back to print each page again with red chapter headings, but soon abandoned that as it must have been difficult to get the placement exactly right a second time through the press. Instead, he supplied a Tabula Rubricarum or table of instructions for the rubricators who would by hand add headings, smaller dropped initials, and red marks at each sentence after printing was done.23 "Gutenberg succeeded in automating the scribe, but not the illuminator," said Clanchy.24 Gutenberg left sizable spaces for artists to paint large, elaborate initials and page decorations on owners' copies, each unique. His finished Bibles were not bound; binding, like rubrication and illumination, was a service performed elsewhere for the eventual owners.
Gutenberg's ink was itself the result of careful chemistry and art. Water-based ink would not do as it was runny and would not adhere evenly to metal type. The ink needed to be viscous: thick and sticky but smooth and workable. Early printers mixed lamp black carbon with varnish—as with oil paints—and possibly albumen (egg whites) and human urine. Thanks to his ink, said Kapr, "Gutenberg's printing exhibits the same velvety and gleaming black as it did over five centuries ago."25 There is something stunning—luminously, mystically black—about the Gutenberg Bible's ink when beheld up close.
Beginning in the 1980s, scientists have subjected the ink in Gutenberg Bibles to nondestructive analysis with cyclotron beams. "The results were wholly unexpected, for we found an extremely high concentration of lead and copper," said a 1983 paper by four authors from the University of California at Davis, adding that "we have yet to find an ink that is anything like it in metallic richness in the many analyses we have made of inks from the Middle Ages through the incunabula period [1450-1500] to the present." They speculate that the metals could have enhanced the ink's blackness, as some copper oxides turn black and some lead oxides turn dark purple when heated. Or perhaps the metals had some useful impact on the ink's viscosity or drying time. Could their addition account for the ink's sustainability over 500 years while some inks from the period fade, turn brown, or bleed through pages?26 More than four centuries later, in an 1885 feature on the manufacture of modern printing inks, The American Bookmaker lamented: "We are gravely informed that the ink of Gutenberg's time was blacker than the scientifically prepared products of our leading modern manufacturers."27 Gutenberg's magical ink was spread onto the type by a "beater" likely using two ink balls: wooden handles with leather balls (the hides of dogs by some accounts) stuffed with horsehair or wool.28
Gutenberg's paper could be identified by the distinct watermarks, the faintly visible manufacturer's logos left on paper by metal designs woven into paper molds. Needham examined sixteen copies of the B42 and found variations—Bull's Head, Grape Cluster of two kinds, and Ox—which likely came in four batches of 100 reams of paper. Needham believed the paper came from near Turin, more than 250 miles by mule and barge from Mainz, though later studies by Isabel Feder McCarthy theorize it came from paper mills in Basel or the Duchy of Savoy.29 Gutenberg needed paper that was sturdy enough to take impressions on both sides, finished with a coating called sizing that allows the ink to dry on the surface and not spread into the paper. Before printing, the paper needed to be dampened, softening it to take the impression. An estimated 120 to 140 copies of the Bible were printed on paper. Another forty or so were printed on vellum, which was seen as more luxurious and which cost four to five times as much as paper. That would have required 3,200 to 5,000 calfskins.30

Finally to the press. The wooden press Gutenberg is assumed to have used was likely adapted from that which papermakers utilized to squeeze water out of finished sheets after they were molded—or perhaps presses used to make wine or olive oil or bind books or press linens. The first known image of a printing press comes from a woodcut from 1499 depicting death—in the form of three creepy skeletal beings—haunting a compositor, a bookseller, and two pressmen. The next known image was in the printer's mark or logo of Josse Bade, also known as Badius, in 1507, and then in a drawing sent to a friend by Albrecht Dürer in 1511.31 To adapt the papermaker's press, Otto Fuhrmann said, the bed had to be raised to a working height; the screw had to be adjusted to give sufficient and even pressure on the type with only a quarter turn; a mechanism needed to be built so heavy pages made up of type could be rolled in and out of the press; and a mechanism had to be invented for holding the paper or parchment in place without getting ink onto the rest of the page.32 The wooden press seen in the first images is essentially the same as that in use until presses were made of iron at the start of the nineteenth century.
Before getting to the operation of the press, allow me a brief, technical excursion regarding the size of pages and how that relates to the press and the set-up of composed pages feeding it. Fair warning that printing jargon will follow; I will explain. Start here: Take a book, open it, and hold one piece of paper with a page printed on each side; that is a leaf. The largest books—like Gutenberg's Bible—are folio sized. That is what you get when you take a full sheet of paper—often measuring nineteen by twenty-five inches—and fold it once, ending up with two leaves, thus four pages. A quarto (abbreviated as 4to) is folded twice, yielding four leaves—thus quarto in Latin—with eight pages. To continue: an octavo (8vo) yields eight leaves and sixteen pages on a sheet—at about six by nine inches, the size of the standard modern hardback; the duodecimo (12mo) a dozen leaves and two dozen pages; the sextodecimo (16mo) sixteen leaves and thirty-two pages; all the way down to the sexagesimo-quarto (64mo) with 128 tiny pages—two by three inches—from a single sheet of paper.
Imagine you are printing a quarto with two folds, four leaves, and eight pages per sheet of paper. To visualize this, take a single, blank sheet of paper. Draw one vertical and one horizontal line intersecting at the center; repeat on the other side. Easy enough so far: four pages on one side of the sheet, four on the other. Now mark the lower left box on the front side page 1. Hold your fingers there as you turn it over and mark the quadrant where your finger is as page 2. You see where this is going. Mark your sheet of paper according to these instructions: In a common quarto, the outer form has page 1 in the lower-left corner, page 8 in the lower right, page 4 in the upper left (upside down) and page 5 in the upper right (also upside down). The other, inner side of the sheet has page 7 on the lower left, page 2 on the lower right (the opposite side from page 1), and pages 6 and 3 upside down on the upper left and right. Now fold the paper vertically and horizontally. Cut the top edge of the paper. Turn it to page 1 and you should have pages 1-8 in proper order. This is the arithmetic of imposition. Add multiple sheets to make a signature and the positioning and numbering becomes more complex. Printers' manuals devoted large sections to imposition.
At last, with all pieces in place, we print on the press. At its heart is the "mighty screw," in Kapr's words, carved of wood and attached to a handle that would bring a platen—a two-inch-thick wood slab—down onto the form of the page that held inked type, with equal pressure all around. The thick and sturdy sides of the press are its cheeks, held in place with four pieces of wood across: the head, the winter, the till, and on the top the cap. The cap is likely anchored against floor joists above and in some cases the walls to the side, so great is the pressure exerted on it. Hear a wooden press work and it creaks in agony with every pull. The form of type sits on a stone called the bed—usually marble lying itself over a base of sand, bran, or plaster—in a wooden enclosure called the coffin.33 Atop that is a hinged assembly that folds open and back, away from the press, to hold the paper; that is the tympan and while it is open it is held up by a support called the gallows. The paper—which had been dampened the night before to better take the impression—is held in place and protected by the frisket, a frame of paper to protect the rest of the page from ink smears. Register pins are used to assure that the paper is sent into the press into the same exact position on one side and then the other. Once the form with type is inked; once the paper is put in place and lowered just above the type; once the form is rolled into place under the platen on a carriage that is wheeled in and out with leather straps attached to a roller turned by a handle called a rounce, then the mighty screw is pulled with less than half a turn. The form is rolled out; the frisket is raised; the paper comes off the type with a sticky slurp, and the printed page is hung to dry.
Gutenberg biographer Aloys Ruppel estimated that in Gutenberg's operation, two printers—one inking the type, the other cranking the rounce and pulling the handle—could produce between eight and sixteen impressions an hour. Printing 1,282 pages in more than 180 copies of Gutenberg's Bible equals about 230,760 pulls of the press. Figuring for many religious holidays and for the operation starting slower with four versus six presses, Ruppel calculated that it took two full years to print all the copies of the Bible. A scribe, on the other hand, might have taken up to three years to make a single copy.34
Altogether, the complexity of these tasks is stunning: formulating the metal; formulating the ink; experimenting with papers; adapting the press; manufacturing tens of thousands of letters to precise dimensions; mapping out and calculating the setting of type to fill 1,282 beautifully composed pages; running concurrent press lines to manufacture about 180 copies. On top of all that, when each page was set and done with, the type had to be cleaned and returned, laboriously, to type cases, a task that would pester printers for centuries.
I have given you a standard version of the mechanisms of printing, not dissimilar to that set forth by Moxon in 1683, more than two centuries after Gutenberg's work. So it is supposition whether this is exactly how Gutenberg operated. Did he use the handheld mold to manufacture his font as documented decades later? Did he manufacture type according to a metallurgical recipe used for the next five centuries? Did he operate the press as others did for three and a half centuries after his invention? We cannot be certain.
Of one thing, we can be sure: Gutenberg published a Bible of unparalleled beauty and trained or inspired the printers who would soon spread the art and craft across Europe and the world. This was not an accident or an inevitability or a flash of inspiration; it had to be the result of years of vision, experimentation, and invention. "No amount of speculation about the 'Gutenberg Galaxy' coming to an end can diminish his achievement," said Kapr. "It still appears miraculous that this first typographic book in Europe ... should be of such sublime beauty and mastery that later generations up to our own day have rarely matched and never excelled it in quality. For regularity of setting, uniform silky blackness of impression, harmony of layout and many other respects, it is magisterial in a way to which we can rarely aspire under modern conditions. Behind such an achievement can only have stood a personality inspired by a passionate commitment to excellence, and able to communicate this drive and enthusiasm to his fellow workers."35 In a lamentation about the state of printing in 1894, J.M. Bowles declared, "There is no doubt about this statement, that artificially the first books printed have never been surpassed."36







6
Gutenberg
We do not even know what the man looked like. Portraits and statues of Gutenberg we have were made at the earliest 180 years after his death and bear little credibility, since most show him with a long, forked beard while patricians of his time were clean-shaven; such beards were the mark of a pilgrim or a Jew, said Aloys Ruppel.1 A 1584 engraving with an archetypal image of a bearded Gutenberg holding a box of punches might have been a copy of a 1530 portrait, which modernized Gutenberg to the style of the time, when long beards were in vogue; that might, in turn, have been based on some long-lost contemporary portrait or memory.2 Beneath all that hair and history, it is impossible to discern the visage of the man.
As I said earlier, there is no record of Gutenberg ever printing his name, and the practice of publishing colophons—statements at the end of books recording the identities of authors, publishers, and printers—did not begin until after Gutenberg made his Bible. What is known of his life comes almost entirely from documents memorializing his various and numerous legal disputes, but they are fragmentary and sometimes second-hand, giving us a tantalizing but thin story of the person. None of this has stopped latter-day chroniclers from attempting to romanticize Gutenberg and add to his legend with drama of feuds against unscrupulous and greedy financiers and partners, a jilted lover, and death in penury—none of which appears to be true. "Perhaps somewhere in every historian a novelist is hiding, trying to come out," said Lotte Hellinga, a historian of the book.3 None of this deters me from admiring the man as an inventor, artist, visionary, and businessman, nor am I frustrated at being unable to discern his motives, personal, spiritual, or financial. What we see of him—his book, his Bible—is sufficient reason to examine what we know of him. And this is what we know:
The Mainz of Gutenberg's birth was a well-to-do, independent, imperial city of 6,000 inhabitants on the Rhine. It was the home of a powerful archbishopric, one of a handful that held the privilege of electing the Holy Roman Emperor. During Gutenberg's lifetime—long before the start of the Reformation his invention would fuel—the city would be the scene of religious and political civil war over reform in the Church. At the start of the fifteenth century, class struggles were rumbling. The city's dynastic, patrician families, known as the ancients, had claimed power and privilege from the archbishop, receiving monopolies for trade in cloth and precious metals, many tax breaks, and rich annuities from the city, which had put the municipality deeply and perilously in debt. The growing guilds of craftsmen, who were excluded from running the affairs of the city, were covetous of the ancients' privileges and would struggle to claim their rights and demand that both the ancients and the priesthood pay taxes.
The marriage of Friele Gensfleisch to his second and much younger wife, Else, was a representation of that class conflict; he was a member of the patrician class, she the daughter of a mere merchant. Together, sometime between 1394 and 1404—the year 1400 has been adopted for the convenience of centenary celebrations since—they gave birth to a son. He was known in records through the years by the first names of Johannes, Johan, Henchen, Hengin, Henne, and Henn and by the last name Gensfleisch (his father's name; it means goose meat) and then Gudenberg or Gutenberg.4 The last was the name of the family home where it is believed Johannes would one day also set up his print shop: Hof zum Gutenberg (guten means good and Berg means mountain, and there are some lovely hills across the Rhine from town). Taking the name of one's home as one's surname was a common practice in that place and time. Friele possibly worked in the cloth trade like his forebears and was a member of the prestigious Companions of the Mint—a position Johannes could not hold due to the lower birth of his mother, though some say his proximity to minters of coins gave him experience in metallurgy he would put to good use. Else was the daughter of Werner Wirich zum Steinen Krame (which means, of the stone store).
Gutenberg left Mainz a number of times. He presumably joined his family when Friele deserted in 1411 and again in 1413 along with other patricians avoiding the guilds' threat of taxes. It is believed that the family might have gone across the river to the town of Eltville, where Gutenberg's mother's family had property. He might have left again for Erfurt University, as Kapr believed a registration there under the name Johannes de Alta villa (a variant of Eltville or old town) may have been him.5 This Johannes graduated in the winter semester of 1419-20, soon after the death of Friele Gutenberg. In official documents from 1427, we learn that Johannes and his brother had inherited an annuity their father held from the city of Mainz for twenty gulden a year, which was cut in half a decade later as the municipality neared insolvency. Their mother died in 1433 and the children split their inheritance: Johannes' sister received the family home in Mainz and their brother took the home in Eltville; the siblings bought out Johannes' share by transferring to him two annuities the family had owned from Mainz and Strasbourg.6
It is because of these annuities that we next encounter Gutenberg in legal documents. After having no evidence of his whereabouts from 1429 to 1434, he then appears about 125 miles south and upriver in Strasbourg. There, a Mainz Bürgermeister had the misfortune to be traveling through town while his city was 310 gulden in arrears paying Gutenberg income from the annuity. Gutenberg had him thrown in debtor's prison, as was his legal right. The official agreed to pay the money and Gutenberg—in a document beginning "I, Johann Gensfleisch the younger, called Gutenberg"—agreed to free and indemnify the Bürgermeister. Thus, according to the reckoning of biographer John Man, Gutenberg acquired enough capital to buy a house or pay ten workers for a year or start a business.7 Local records tell us that he hired Lorenz Beildeck and his wife as servants and that in 1439 he paid tax on one and a half Fuder—wagonloads—of wine, equaling about 1,500 liters.
Gutenberg was a well-to-do man and a good catch, but we cannot be sure whether he ever married; likely not. There is a tempting tidbit in the Strasbourg record about a breach of promise suit brought against Johannes in ecclesiastical court on behalf of Ennelin zur Yserin Tür (Ann of the iron door). In the trial, Gutenberg attacked a witness, shoemaker Klaus Schott, as—in Kapr's summary—"a miserable wretch who lived by cheating and lying." Schott filed a defamation action against Gutenberg, who was required to put fifteen gulden as escrow until the breach suit was heard. Sadly, neither verdict is known. Earlier historians found a tax record for an Ennel Gutenberg and assumed this was his wife—even presuming children—but no historian of late buys the claims.8
Gutenberg's first business that we know of was manufacturing metal badges for pilgrims to carry to Aachen, where Charlemagne is buried and where sacred relics were shown every seven years since 1349, continuing to today. These included the alleged robes of the Virgin Mary, Jesus' swaddling clothes, the crucified Christ's loincloth, and a cloth that held St. John the Baptist's severed head. Since the fourteenth century, the badges were meant to accord their carriers protection and hospitality as pilgrims. Later, mirrors of polished metal were built into the badges as "a response to the growth of pilgrimages into mass phenomenon, with tens or hundreds of thousands of pilgrims pressing forward into the presence of the displayed relics," explained Jonathan Green.9 Relics were displayed at a distance, from balconies or high on church steeples, and the belief was that the mirror captured their radiance and grace to be shared with family back home. Because the goldsmiths of Aachen could not meet the anticipated demand, their local monopoly on production of badges was suspended.
Gutenberg saw an opportunity and entered a partnership to manufacture the badges out of tin and lead with Hans Riffe, who contributed only capital. Then Andreas Dritzehn, who had paid Gutenberg to teach him how to polish stones—a goldsmith's skill—begged to join the effort and so did Andreas Heilmann. As organizer, Gutenberg was to receive half the proceeds, Riffe the investor a quarter, the two Andreases as workers an eighth each. By one estimate, manufacturing 32,000 mirrors could have yielded the partners 16,000 gulden. Just one problem: They planned for the pilgrimage in 1439 but it did not occur until a year later, perhaps because of an outbreak of plague. They had capital tied up and time on their hands and Gutenberg had obligations to his partners.
Gutenberg undertook a new venture, and according to a court document, the two Andreases "had further asked and beseeched him to teach them also all his arts and enterprises that he might know or furthermore or otherwise learn, and not to conceal anything from them." In the language of the court, they were to learn Gutenberg's "Aventur und Kunst" (often translated as adventure and art but more accurately as undertaking or enterprise and art). He also hired Konrad Saspach, a wood turner, who "had made the press and he knew the affair," according to a court witness. Hanns Dünne, a goldsmith, testified that three years earlier he had been paid by Gutenberg for "material belonging to printing," presumably metals. And it is worth noting that Andreas Heilmann's brother Nicholas owned a paper mill not far from Strasbourg.10 In the middle of their work, the plague killed Andreas Dritzehn. He said on his deathbed that Gutenberg had fulfilled his end of the bargain, teaching him the undertaking and art. But his brother Jörg Dritzehn told Gutenberg that he and his brother, Claus, should take the late Andreas' place. Gutenberg refused. That's how we end up in court in 1439.
Strasbourg and Mainz have long been in competition to find evidence that one was the real birthplace of printing. So archivists in Strasbourg were in eager search of documents mentioning Gutenberg's name that would illuminate his work there between 1434 and 1444. Some of the court documents I describe here were found three centuries after their creation. Thank goodness various archivists and historians copied, described, and wrote about the documents, for the originals were later destroyed, some in fires set by revolutionary mobs in Strasbourg in 1793 and others in the siege on the city in the Franco-Prussian War in 1870.11
We have the testimony of numerous witnesses who tell the same story. When Andreas Dritzehn died, Gutenberg directed his servant, Beildeck, to tell Claus Dritzehn "that he should not show anyone the press he had with him. ... Gutenberg said, moreover, that he should get busy immediately and go over to the press, and open the thing with two small hand-screws whereby the pieces would fall asunder; thereupon he should lay these pieces in the press or upon the press, so that then nobody could see or comprehend (what it is)." This testimony about the four pieces was corroborated by Claus' cousin, Frau Ennel, wife of the timber dealer. Saspach the woodturner said Andreas Heilmann told him to "go thither and take the pieces out of the press and lay them apart from each other; then nobody will know what it is." Before they could take it apart, the device was already gone. The priest Anton Heilmann also testified that before Andreas Dritzehn's death, Gutenberg had instructed both Andreases to "fetch all the forms to be melted down, so that no one saw it, although he felt some regret for some of the forms."12
Centuries have been spent debating the meaning of the four pieces and the forms, without answer. The most common—perhaps wishful—thinking is that the four pieces might have been the handheld mold for founding type and the forms might have been lead type. The screws might have held together the mold or a page with the letters. If this were the case, then printing began under cloak of secrecy in Strasbourg and was perfected and finally made public in Mainz. But no one knows. Gutenberg, by the way, won the case. He owed the surviving Dritzehn brothers only fifteen gulden, an amount called for in the contract with their brother, and did not bring them into the enterprise. The last document recording Gutenberg in Strasbourg was a tax record from 1444.13
The next time we see a trace of Gutenberg is in 1448, back in Mainz, when he borrowed 150 gulden from a cousin, possibly to fund the setting up of a printing shop. After 1448, he developed and used his first known font, called the Donatus-Kalendar type, named after two of the first-discovered publications to utilize it. It was intended for Latin and was missing four capitals but was used in German without them. The Donatus Ars Grammatica was a standard Latin grammar text since the fourth century, in constant demand in German schools, where students wore out their copies through use, fueling an ongoing market. Stephan Füssel said at least twenty-four editions of the twenty-eight-page Donatus were printed in Mainz in Gutenberg's time.14 The Türkenkalendar for 1455, entitled "A Warning to Christianity Concerning the Turks" and printed in German, came soon after the earth-shattering news of the fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman army in 1453. "This was in effect a piece of political polemic, in which the monthly divisions and calendar characteristics are used as a vehicle to summon up the might of Christendom against the peril of invasion by the Turks," Kapr explained.15
Gutenberg used DK-type for other projects through the years. With it he printed the Astronomical Calendar for 1448—which by its title led to understandable excitement about being able to date a Gutenberg publication. But study determined that it was printed about a decade later and was used to make astrological calculations for earlier dates. Another astrological calendar recommended ideal dates for bloodletting and purging. One more calendar with rhymes made it easier to memorize the feast days. In the realm of politics, he printed the Cyprus indulgences, intended to raise funds for the defense of the island that had been won for Christianity by Richard the Lion-Hearted in the First Crusade. He also printed German and Latin versions of Pope Calixtus III's 1456, twenty-five-page bull against the Turks. And in service to the Church, he printed a directory of the offices of bishops and archbishops. The only devotional item among this ephemera was a single-sheet Latin prayer from the twelfth century.16
The oddest piece of printing bearing DK-type is a four-and-a-half by three-and-a-half-inch fragment of the Sibylline Prophecy in German, discovered in 1892 wrapping archival records. The Prophecy is a fourteenth-century poem of hundreds of lines predicting strife in the Church and the Holy Roman Empire, which was alleged to have been written by the leader of a sect of self-flagellants who was burned at the stake as a heretic in 1369.17 Because the printing of this work is uncharacteristically sloppy for Gutenberg, with type set on a wobbly baseline, some guessed it to be his earliest known printing: an experiment, perhaps. Kapr believed it was printed in Strasbourg in 1440. Füssel said it more likely came later in Gutenberg's career. Füssel also dismissed theories that Gutenberg's printing of the Prophecy indicated his stand in church politics.18 Was printing it a political, an economic, or a literary choice? Said Green: "Gutenberg, the first entrepreneurial printer, was forced to predict the future demand for his wares and the fortunes of his books in the hands of their readers."19 This variety of products that came off Gutenberg's press demonstrates that the history of printing is much more than the history of books. Note also the variety of topics and customers. According to M.T. Clanchy, the early products of Mainz' presses served four literacies: sacred (the Bible), learned (the Donatus), bureaucratic (the indulgences), and vernacular (the Prophecies).20

The business of the Bible, and a business it was, required considerable capital to design and manufacture type; build presses—four at first and then two more; buy lead and the other metals; buy a considerable stock of vellum and premium paper; hire and train in entirely new skills a staff of engravers, founders, compositors, and pressmen; and acquire space for a larger shop in another building, the Humbrechthof, to house the work of the Bible and its workers. So Gutenberg entered into another business arrangement, this time with Johannes Fust, a businessman in Mainz. Gutenberg borrowed 800 gulden in 1449 to finance the building of tools—which became collateral—and then another 800 gulden in 1453 to support their joint "work of the books." For perspective, Füssel estimated that a nice home in Mainz at the time would have cost 500 gulden, so "it becomes apparent that Gutenberg's capital investment costs ran into the millions in modern terms."21
The Bible was completed by 1454. As it was coming off the press, Aeneas Silvius Piccolomini—later to become Pope Pius II—visited Frankfurt as a papal legate and reported seeing incomplete sections of the Gutenberg Bible. He was amazed, writing to Cardinal Juan de Carvajal of meeting a "miraculous man," likely Gutenberg or Fust.

Everything that has been written to be about that remarkable man whom I met in Frankfurt is quite true. I did not see complete Bibles but sections in five of various books thereof, the text of which was absolutely free from error and printed with extreme elegance and accuracy. Your eminence would have read them with no difficulty and without the aid of spectacles. I learned from many witnesses that 158 copies have been completed, although some asserted that the total was 180. While I am not quite sure about the actual number, I do not have any doubt, if people are to be believed, about the perfection of the volumes. If I had known what you wanted, I would undoubtedly have purchased a copy for you. Some of the sections have been sent here to the Emperor. I will try, if it can be arranged, to have a complete Bible that is for sale brought here, and I will buy it on your account. I fear, however, that this may not be feasible, both because of the distance involved and because they say there have been ready buyers for the volumes, even before they are finished. That your Eminence was most anxious to receive reliable information about this matter, I infer from your having indicated this by sending a courier who goes faster than Pegasus! But enough of this levity.22

Now we land back in court again. At the end of the successful printing of the Bible, Fust sued Gutenberg and we have the account of a notary, Ulrich Helmasperger, recording a hearing held in the refectory of the Barefoot Friars, a Franciscan mendicant order. It was overseen by civil authorities, the mayor and treasurer of Mainz. The document, coming at the end of a legal process, is dated November 6, 1455. Fust sued for repayment of the 1,600 gulden he had given Gutenberg, in addition to interest, totaling 2,026 gulden. In court documents, Gutenberg said Fust had agreed to pay him 300 gulden a year for expenses and to pay the workers' wages and advance payment for rent, paper, ink, etc. If their partnership ended, Gutenberg was to pay Fust 800 gulden to release the lien on his equipment. Oh, how this document has led to dramatic speculation ever since its discovery in 1734. It mentions money that did not go to "the work of books" and so some wondered whether Gutenberg embezzled funds for freelance projects to earn cash for himself: the printing of indulgences and conspiratorial prophecies, perhaps? Others held that Fust was the greedy money man who robbed poor Gutenberg of his invention, his business, and his fortune, leaving him penniless.
None of this, it now seems, is true. In 2008, German legal historian Hans-Michael Empell wrote a book analyzing the Helmasperger document and its meaning, its title translated as Gutenberg Before the Court: The Trial Over the First Printed Bible. Empell concluded that the case was merely tidying up loose ends in the dissolution of the successful partnership that had produced the Bible, deciding the final resolution of Fust's contributions to the enterprise. One issue, Empell said, was whether Gutenberg had to pay interest on the first 800 gulden and whether the second 800 gulden was a loan or an investment. "Gutenberg did not lose the case," Empell declared.23 "Empell's lawyerly exposition certainly does away with many a romantic fantasy," said Lotte Hellinga. In her summary, "there were neither villains nor victims."24
Printing was capital- and labor-intensive and not yet in the control of guilds. Gutenberg had to hire a sizable staff; Hellinga believed that could have added up to as many as twenty-five employees. Kapr supposed a balance sheet for the printing of the Bible:25



Cost of six hand-presses at 40 gulden each
240 gulden    


Cost of type cases and workshop furniture
60 gulden    


Rent for the Humbrechthof for three years
30 gulden    


Heating for the workshop and metal casting
20 gulden    


Cost of building hand-molds
60 gulden    


Cost of steel, copper, lead, antimony
100 gulden    


Cost of manufacturing ink
30 gulden    


Paper for 150 copies
400 gulden    


Vellum for 30 copies
300 gulden    


Wages and board for 12 to 20 employees
800 gulden    


Handwritten Bible as exemplar
80 gulden    


Total expenses
2120 gulden    


Sale of 30 vellum copies at 50 gulden each
1500 gulden    


Sale of 150 paper copies at 20 gulden each
3000 gulden    


Total revenue
4500 gulden    


Gross profit
2380 gulden    



Judging from the future Pope Pius II's letter about the book, all copies might have been sold by the time a sample appeared in Frankfurt. The court documents do not indicate who left the partnership with how much, but it is clear that the business of the Bible was a success.







7
After the Bible
The partners went their separate ways. Gutenberg appeared to continue printing. Fust went into partnership with Peter Schöffer, a former scribe who had studied in Paris and came to work for Gutenberg and Fust on their Bible. He married Fust's daughter, Christina. In her 2014 romantic novel, Gutenberg's Apprentice, Alix Christie made Schöffer the hero and credited him with the artistry of the first printed Bible. There is no way of ascertaining his role but based on the advanced art of Schöffer's later projects, Christie's theory is appealing. In the business break-up, Fust and Schöffer apparently retained the large printing shop in the Humbrechthof and with it much equipment. Gutenberg, for the time being, seems to have had his press and his earlier typefaces, possibly in the Gutenberghof.
Soon, church and political strife intervened with the outbreak of war between competing archbishops in Mainz, which had profound impact on the lives and livelihoods of these first printers and on the spread of their technology to the world. A half-century before Luther would use print to spark the Reformation, stirrings of dissension were evident in Mainz. Some desired democratization of a sort, seeking more power for church councils—a topic for the Council of Basel (1431-1449). Some sought reform and standardization (uniformitas) of liturgical texts. Biographer John Man built a wishful case that Gutenberg's first desire was not to print the Bible but instead to exploit a market for a new missal, inspired by two cardinals, Nicholas of Cusa and Juan de Carvajal, who came to Mainz in 1448 with plans for standard missals, breviaries, and choir books, which the then-archbishop of Mainz approved. "It seems highly likely that the council was depending on the new technology of printing to accomplish their far-reaching goals," wrote Mary Kay Duggan.1
When the archbishop died in 1459, he was replaced by Diether von Isenburg, against the wishes of Pope Pius II. Pius ordered Diether not to call any councils and to pay a tithe of archdiocesan income for the war against the Turks. Diether defied the pope by calling a diet of imperial electors in 1461, declaring as its goal "the removal of oppression from the German nation."2 At the meeting, the pope's favored candidate, Adolph II of Nassau, stepped forward with a document naming him archbishop of Mainz. In opposition, Diether had the backing—that is, the promise of troops—from a prince and support from the Mainz city council, under Dr. Konrad Humery, a friend and backer of Gutenberg's. The battle lines were set.
The first shots came not with lead bullets but leaden letters. Broadsides and pamphlets flew off the world's first presses. Fust and Schöffer printed propaganda for both camps; there were reports that Gutenberg also printed a public letter, but if so, it does not survive. Technology provided a new weapon. "To the matériel of warfare—halberds, rapiers, swords, harquebuses and cannon—psychological weapons had been added, which could be delivered by means of the printing press," wrote Kapr.3 Before the press, the only way to reach a large number of people was through performance, in sermon, speech, or play, and those words disappeared into the air and the memories of the few who heard them. Now, for the first time, a larger public could be reached through print and these words could be spread past the constraint of time. Here is the birth of media, of propaganda, and of a media public.
Bullets followed. Adolf's faction prepared to attack Mainz and planned the division of the spoils before they were won. The financially strapped city's leaders shortsightedly chose not to spend money on mercenaries to defend Diether. The prince who had sided with Diether was warned of the attack and turned away from the city. Adolf's forces used ladders to scale city walls and his troops sacked Mainz, killing 400 citizens, including Fust's brother, Jakob. Diether ran the other way while his supporters—Gutenberg and Humery among them—were herded into the central square, deprived of their property and money, including annuities. They were banished from Mainz and forced to pay a half-gulden on the way out. The Gutenberghof was taken over and leased to a supporter of the new archbishop. Printing ceased in the city for a time. The printers whom Gutenberg, Fust, and Schöffer had trained scattered and soon established presses across the river and then across Germany, Italy, and France.
After Adolf was firmly established in office and Diether had conceded defeat, the archbishop offered a gesture of peace to Gutenberg in a document dated January 17, 1465:

We, Adolf, etc., declare and manifest publicly by this document that we have recognized the agreeable and willing service which our dear, faithful Johann Gutenberg has rendered, and may and shall render in future time to us and our diocese; therefore, and by special dispensation, have we admitted and received him as our servant and courtier, and receive and admit him presently by virtue of this document.4

Gutenberg received a promise of a courtier's suit of clothing every year, plus two tons of grain and 500 gallons of wine, as well as an exemption from taxes, watch duty, and military service, and his banishment from Mainz was apparently ended. Was this an honor to him as the inventor of printing? Was this because Gutenberg served Adolf, printing documents or helping him establish a printing office in the Benedictine monastery Adolf established in Marienthal, across the Rhine? We do not now know.

Historians continue to debate what Gutenberg printed after the Bible and where he worked and lived. Some believe he had another Bible in him, using a later and larger version of his DK-type. This Bible, with thirty-six lines to the page, 462 pages longer than the first, was printed about 1460, before Gutenberg was ejected from Mainz. Some scholars believe it was printed outside Mainz, in Bamberg, in a shop set up by Albrecht Pfister, who bought the font and used it for later works. Some say Pfister was the printer of this Bible, while others maintain this book's artistry was too accomplished for a beginning printer and could have come only from the master.
Then there is the intriguing and much-debated case of the Catholicon, a thirteenth-century reference work that performed the functions of dictionary and encyclopedia. "A rough consensus of scholars in this century has agreed that Gutenberg is the likeliest candidate as the Catholicon's printer," said Princeton's Paul Needham.5 It differed from Gutenberg's other works in a few respects. The book was printed with a new and, to modern eyes, more legible typeface resembling the Carolingian minuscule script that was commissioned by Charlemagne—a foreshadowing of the roman typefaces that would follow. Also, the Catholicon carried a colophon, a statement at the end of the kind that would later record credit and responsibility for author, printer, and publisher. This colophon, sadly, did not name names. But it did take credit for the place of the book's manufacture, "in the bounteous city of Mainz of the renowned German nation," and the means, "without help of reed, stilus, or pen, but by the wondrous agreement, proportion, and harmony of punches and types, has been printed and finished."6 The colophon is dated 1460 but some dispute whether the book or every copy of it was printed then. The Catholicon was clearly printed in three separate editions on three distinct presses (indicated in part by differently placed registration pinholes) with three separate stocks of paper (identified by their watermarks), some of which researchers say could not have existed until 1470. No one better to dig into these anomalies than Needham, who arrived at a stunning theory about their printing.
First a note on something that has puzzled me about the progress of printing over its first three centuries: As I've explained, founding a font was expensive, thus a printer's supply of sorts was always scarce, necessitating that letters be recycled quickly from one page setting to a next. That task—cleaning and redistributing type from a page form back into type cases—had to have been a miserable job (which is why it was sometimes assigned to apprentices). A printer could by no means afford to set every page in a book and then sit them all in a warehouse until they might be needed for another edition if the first sold out. There wouldn't be enough type, enough lead, enough warehouse space to do that. So when a next edition was called for, the print shop had to reset every letter, every line, every page. How laborious that seems—though resetting an entire book to print a thousand new copies was still unimaginably faster than having a thousand scribes write them. The problem of resetting type was eventually addressed with stereotyping: taking a mold of the entire page in a form of plaster, later papier-mâché, then cardboard, using that to in turn mold copies of the original page to store or use on multiple presses. That tremendous technological advance in printing was not attempted until the mid-eighteenth century and was not used widely until the method was perfected in the early 1800s.
Given the tremendous efficiencies to be had, why hadn't anyone explored re-molding typeset lines or pages earlier? Perhaps no one had the idea to try. But Needham believed Gutenberg himself might have experimented with stereotyping in the Catholicon's 744 pages and almost 100,000 lines of type. After exhaustive analysis of multiple copies of the Catholicon—paper and its provenance, pinholes and their placement, typesetting irregularities, and physical evidence of anomalies, such as type appearing out of justification this way or that (always in two-line increments)—Needham theorized that Gutenberg had molded type, two lines at a time, for later reuse. "When these facts are 'arranged vigorously,' " said Needham, "they appear to me to say the following: The Catholicon printer's three books were not printed with movable types. The type pages of these books were composed of indissoluble two-line slugs, arranged into columns or pages as the case may be. After printing, the slugs were retained, and at later times additional impressions were pulled from them.... The Catholicon slugs were printed at three separate times, as the three different paper supplies of the copies indicate."7 Some of this printing was done after Gutenberg's death in 1468. How could that be? Needham suggested that Gutenberg's friend, last business partner, and the heir to his printing material, Konrad Humery, could have had it printed in about 1472. Six years after Needham issued his research, historian Richard N. Schwab—one of the researchers who bombarded the Gutenberg B42 Bible in a cyclotron to scrutinize its ink—analyzed a copy of the Catholicon and found what appeared to be the impressions of nailheads holding slugs in place.8
This is awe-inspiring speculation. Said Needham: "But I cannot, finally, refrain from expressing homage to the penetrating mind which, we now learn, already in the fifteenth century evolved a solution to the challenge of permanently fixing typographical compositions—a challenge which recurred, and for which other solutions were developed in later centuries. I find it impossible to imagine that the Mainz resident who by 1460 was capable of posing and solving this problem could have been other than Johann Gutenberg."9
In the academy, any stunning theory must be tested against other possibilities and that is what Lotte Hellinga, a book historian and the former deputy keeper of the British Library, did in what she conceded was a "polemic exchange" of papers and rebuttals with Needham over four years. She believed that lines of type were held together, two at a time, with wire and that "the three 'states' of the Catholicon were all three printed after Gutenberg's death by a temporary partnership of printers formed for his purpose."10 Needham took the challenge seriously, for he responded in detail and at length. "It is as if the Spirit of History has called us forth to ensure that no conceivable opinion regarding the Catholicon press should rest unexplored." They still disagreed. "We are in absolute contradiction here, and cannot both be right," Needham said, adding that it is not "helpful to readers simply to encounter in this journal a steady crossfire of 'tis and 'tain'ts."11
I have questions about both theories. As for Needham's, I wonder why such a tremendous mechanism for efficiency would not have caught on with other printers—that is, how it could have stayed secret. As for Hellinga's, I have trouble imagining how pages heavy with type could have been transported over bumpy streets from one press to another without a horrendous accident scattering thousands of sorts on the street—in the jargon of the trade, to pi the type. Can we credit Gutenberg with yet another startling invention? The many gaps in our knowledge of Gutenberg's life and work tempt one to fill them in with imagined moments of blazing insight and innovation. No matter. We still know what he printed: that magnificent Bible.

Attempts were made to give others credit for the invention of movable type. In a 1505 dedication to the Emperor Maximilian, printer Johann Schöffer, son of Peter Schöffer and grandson of Johannes Fust, mentioned "Johan Güttenbergk as inventor of printing and Johan Faust and Peter Schöffer as improvers of the art." In a seventh printing of the dedication in 1509, however, the book was printed "at the expense and trouble of Johann Schöffer, whose grandfather was the first inventor and author of the art of printing." Young Schöffer went further in 1515, claiming that his grandfather was "the first author of the said art, who, finally, from his own genius, commenced to excogitate and to investigate the art of printing in the year 1450. ... Both, however, Johann Fust and Peter Schoeffer kept this art secret, binding all their servants and domestics by oath never in any manner to reveal it."12 Gutenberg was erased.
A century after Gutenberg, Holland tried to take credit for the invention of printing in the name of Laurens Janszoon Coster. There, sticky legend had it that while strolling in the woods near Haarlem, Coster carved letters out of beech bark, impressed them on paper and—eureka!—made letters from lead and later tin. Writing 128 years later, Adrien de Jonghe said that among Coster's workmen "was a certain John. Whether or not, as suspicion alleges, he was Faust. ..." (Note that especially in unflattering portraits, Fust was confused with the Faust of legend.) This dastardly soul allegedly waited for Coster and his family to go to worship on Christmas Eve and then stole away with a closetful of type, taking it to Mainz.13 In his manual of printing, Moxon shifted the story slightly, with Harlemers blaming one John Gutenberg for the theft.14 The story doesn't work on many levels: the printing occurred after Coster's death, for one thing. For another, Coster was allegedly able to accomplish in a few months everything it took Gutenberg at least a decade to develop.
Another legend speaks of the wonderfully named Procopius Waldvogel, whose family was ejected from Prague by the Hussites. He settled in Avignon, where documents say he was hired in 1446 to train a man in "a method of artificial writing (ars artificialiter scribendi)." He soon disappeared with no trace of any book ever made. The town of Feltre, Italy, erected a statue to its son, Pamfilo Castaldi, contending he invented movable type, while it appears he was just the first printer in Milan. Claims were also made for Johann Mentelin, an early printer in Strasbourg, and Jean Brito, a printer in Bruges.15 None stuck. Gutenberg's legacy remains secure.
Gutenberg died in February 1468, in his late 60s. He was buried in the Church of St. Francis, which was taken over by the Jesuits in 1577. It was torn down in 1742 to make way for a new building, which was in turn destroyed in flames in 1793 in a battle between French and German forces and demolished once more early in the nineteenth century.16 Evidence of the grave has never been found. Thirty-one years after his death, a distant relative, Adam Gelthus, published a memorial statement about Gutenberg that seems intended for stone:

In memory of the inventor of the art of printing.
D.O.M.S. [Deo Optimo Maximo Sacrum: Sacred to God in the Highest]
To Johann Gensfleisch
Inventor of printing
Deserver of the highest honors from every nation and tongue
Adam Gelthus places [this memorial]
To the immortal memory of his name.
His remains rest peacefully
In the Church of St. Francis at Mainz.17

No further memorial came until the nineteenth century. In 1832 a movement was started in Mainz to build a monument to the man. "The honor was not for the person, about whom little is known, but to the revolutionary importance of his invention, printing with movable type," wrote Jörg Schmidt.18 It is important to note the mood in Mainz, which in 1792 had undergone occupation by the French after their revolution. The next year, the Jacobins of Mainz and surrounding towns founded the Republic of Mainz. Prussian troops soon invaded and declared an end to the republic, only to see French troops once again occupy the city under Napoleon Bonaparte in 1797, not retreating until 1814. In 1816, Mainz became the capital of a new province of Rhenish Hesse. The monument would be installed just a decade before the German revolution of 1848.
Thus there was in Mainz a crying desire for a symbol of local pride and nationalism. Gutenberg was that. "The monument became the catalytic element that promoted this awareness and identity development, and also the medium by means of which the bourgeois identity was expressed," said Schmidt. It was, he added, a step toward the creation of a public identity separate from the monarchy and military. In this period Gutenberg was seen not only as the inventor of printing but as the person who fostered freedom and education. "Gutenberg was synonymous with freedom of the press."19
The Gutenberg statue was unveiled in the center of Mainz in 1837 with a three-day festival, including the debut of a Gutenberg Oratorio composed by Carl Löwe (who also composed an oratorio for the heretic Jan Hus, which is still performed). The libretto, by Löwe's friend Ludwig Giesebrecht, centers on the archbishops' war in Mainz. The warring mob sings: "Become arrows, you magical letters; become a firebomb, you fluttering page!" Gutenberg laments: "Woe, you will melt my pious tools into murderous, deadly weapons!" The choir sings: "You baptize the metal, you baptize the newborn art."20 A hymn to Gutenberg was also performed, to the tune of "God Save the King." "Seht ihn mit Ehrfurcht an / Gutenberg ist der Mann / Der ewig lebt!" Approach him in reverence / Gutenberg is the man / who lives forever!21 Celebrating the statue and the man became, for a time, an annual event. Statues also popped up in other cities wanting to claim their share of the magic of printing: in Strasbourg and in Frankfurt (honoring Gutenberg, Fust, and Schöffer) in 1840 and in Haarlem, honoring the pretender to the crown Coster, in 1856; he stands there to this day, holding the letter "A."
In 1900, on the half-millennial anniversary of Gutenberg's birth, Mainz held a four-day blow-out, which included an exhibit of printing in the local castle; music from Händel, Weber, and Haydn; lectures; and a preview of the Gutenberg Museum, which would open a year later.22 The New York Times covered the event with patronizing amusement at these Germans. "One could not help reflecting as one passed through the decorated streets, gay with flowers, fir trees, and bunting, that it would take something more than gratitude to an inventor born 500 years ago to work an Anglo-Saxon crowd into a similar pitch of enthusiasm. But nothing was wanting here to make the festivity a brilliant success, and the Germans threw themselves into the whole affair with astonishing ardor and gayety."23
 By our time, sadly, the ardor has dimmed. Turnout for celebrations on the great man's 600th birthday was disappointing. In 2018, on the 550th anniversary of his death, the Gutenberg Foundation in Mainz brought a referendum to the citizens to construct an addition to the museum—a Bible Tower, as it became known—but it failed.24 I had dinner in town afterwards with editors from the local newspaper, who lamented the inattention citizens of Mainz now give their most renowned son. Afterwards, we walked around the city and found the plaque that marks, with caveats, the location of the Gutenberghof. Today, the site is occupied by a dull, modern, orange building housing doctors' offices and a pharmacy. Near the museum, I found a tattered poster—a broadside—promoting the failed referendum. "Much of the good that enriches life today comes from the ideas and drive of Johannes Gutenberg," it said. "We should preserve such courage to think about the future." After the failed referendum, the old museum, built in 1962, was found to be deficient in its fire protection, and so it must be rebuilt. With help from the state, a new and proper museum and memorial will be constructed, with plans to open in 2026.25







8
Print Spreads
Two years after Fust and Schöffer ended their Bible business with Gutenberg, they produced their masterpiece, the Mainz Psalter, a book of psalms intended for use in worship. With it, they perfected the technique that had eluded them in Gutenberg's Bible, printing in multiple colors: magisterial blue letters embedded inside red ornamentation immediately adjacent to black type, along with red capitals interspersed throughout the text. Given the complexity of the work, some suggest Gutenberg might have been involved in its development before their partnership dissolved.
How Fust and Schöffer managed the task has been the subject of much forensic analysis and speculation. In a 1950 book on Schöffer's work, Hellmut Lehmann-Haupt, former curator of rare books at Columbia University, laid out the latest beliefs about the Psalter's production: The colored letters and decorations were printed at the same time as the black text. They likely had to be taken out of the form and inked separately from the text. The intricate decorations were thought to have been engraved in thin sheets of metal mounted on blocks.1 The technique was no doubt too difficult, time-consuming, costly, and inefficient to be used at scale and so its use quickly diminished. The exquisitely colorful, illuminated manuscripts of the scribes devolved eventually into the dull but efficient, black-on-white uniformity of the modern printed book. "Color was a casualty of printing," mourned the historian of medieval manuscripts Christopher de Hamel.2 Valerie Kirschenbaum, a New York City high school teacher and author of Goodbye Gutenberg, lamented: "But when I think of Gutenberg, I think of black words wedged into a rectangle and printed uniformly on dull white paper. I think of the decline of illuminated manuscripts, of the black spell he cast upon our eyes, and of the annihilation of beauty."3
The books printed in the first half-century of that progression from illuminated manuscript to manufactured book are known by book historians as the incunabula (Latin for swaddling or cradle). This period of printing's infancy lasted from the beginning until 1500. In that time, Elizabeth Eisenstein estimated, by rough and contested calculation, eight million books were printed, more than the scribes of Europe were said to have written in the prior twelve centuries.4
Fust died in Paris in 1466. When he first brought Bibles for sale there, lore held that alarmed clerics called for his arrest, as so many holy works of such perfection and consistency must have been the craft of the devil. Perhaps this tale enhanced Fust's reputation as the villain in Gutenberg's story, leading to the also-mistaken belief that he was the inspiration for—or incarnation of—Dr. Faustus. After Fust's death, his now-son-in-law Schöffer took over their publishing house. One of his sons, Johann, managed the business in turn when Peter died in 1503, and Johann's son Ivo ran the business until 1551—impressive longevity for a first enterprise in a new industry.
In his career, Peter Schöffer published more than 250 works, designed multiple typefaces, and also helped build the trade for books by creating his own catalogues of titles and by selling other printers' books. Lehmann-Haupt analyzed Schöffer's production—half books, the rest broadsides, pamphlets, and indulgences—and was fascinated by what he chose to publish. "Here he was, equipped to print whatever the public demanded, at incredibly low prices, with practically no competition to fear and the whole of ancient and medieval literature to choose from. Literary property was free, there were no royalty or copyright considerations, no censorship regulations, no reviewers to fear or appease—a publisher's paradise if ever there was one."5 Three-quarters of Schöffer's titles were theological; others were legal, grammatical, or about current affairs (mainly the threat of the Turks), or served officialdom (for example, papal bulls and the reports of Emperor Maximilian's coronation). He did not serve an audience of readers so much as he served buyers in institutions: monasteries, churches, princely and imperial government, courts, universities, and schools.
Printing soon spread past Mainz as "the first printers—the colleagues of Gutenberg and of Schoeffer, and later on their pupils—taught the craft of printing to all Europe," said pioneering French historians of the book Lucien Febvre and Henri-Jean Martin. "It may appear to the 20th-century reader, accustomed to technical revolutions, that printing spread very slowly," they wrote in 1971. "Yet when we think of the innumerable problems posed for the people of the 15th century by slow communications and a rudimentary technology; when we consider that in the years between 1450 and 1460 only a handful of men based in a few workshops in Mainz were acquainted with the secrets of printing, itself a craft of considerable technical sophistication by contemporary standards; when we remember the multiple difficulties that those who established new workshops had to overcome if they were to gather together the necessary raw materials (to take but one example—steel for the punch, copper for the moulds, a mixture of lead and tin for the type); when we take into account the shortage of technicians, of engravers for the punch, of type-founders and of compositors—then it becomes evident that the spread of printing was far from slow."6
The technology of printing spread quickly indeed. But as subsequent pages will, I hope, make clear, its impact on the forms of text, on the uses of print, and society itself took a long time to play out. Internet technology has spread with similar speed. As for its forms, uses, and impact? Future generations will judge.

By 1460 Johann Mentelin was printing in Strasbourg, publishing the first vernacular Bible in 1466. At the same time, Albrecht Pfister began printing in Bamberg using typefaces some attribute to Gutenberg; he was the first printer known to include woodcut illustrations in printed books (one with five, another with more than 200).7 After the archbishops' war in Mainz, printing all but stopped in the city and the only known products of the press in 1463 and 1464 were broadsides printed for the rival sides.8 Printers—who would remain an itinerant lot—left and opened shops in Nuremberg, Cologne, Augsburg, Basel, and Speyer.9 "After the sacking of Mainz in 1462 printers followed the trade-routes of Europe, particularly those leading south," said S.H. Steinberg, "and within fifteen years after Gutenberg's death in 1468 printing-presses had been set up in every country of Western Christendom from Sweden to Sicily and from Spain to Poland and Hungary."10 Printing was established in ninety cities by 1480, growing to 252 in the next two decades.11
Printing spread rapidly in Italy, where it developed a bold, new aesthetic. The Catholicon's typography began a trend toward a more rounded letter, as did Schöffer in his work about the same time. Conrad Sweynheym and Arnold Pannartz set up a shop in a Benedictine monastery near Rome in 1464, where they printed a Donatus grammar and then Cicero in a yet-more-readable typeface. German printers would stick with forms of gothic black-letter for centuries. Meanwhile, Italy brought us pleasing roman typefaces modeled on the humanist Carolingian script, the first from a Frenchman, Nicolas Jenson. He had worked in the French mint and, according to speculation and second-hand documentation, was dispatched by Charles VII to Mainz in 1458 to learn this new technology of printing, though there is no direct evidence that Jenson worked with Gutenberg. He next appeared in Venice in 1468, where in 1470 he cut a sublimely beautiful letter.
Venice became the center of intellectual publishing and of business innovation thanks in great measure to Aldus Manutius, a humanist scholar and grammarian who came to the city in 1490, ten years after Jenson's death. More than 200 presses had been in operation in Venice before him.12 Four years after arriving, Aldus began to publish the ancients in their original Greek. He commissioned a space-saving italic typeface, designed by Francesco Griffo, with which he published Latin classics (at first only in lower-case, mixed with roman capitals).13 He was the first to print that most embattled piece of punctuation, the semicolon.14 And though he was a publisher and not a printer himself, Aldus oversaw the design of an aesthetic for the ages in his Aldine press. "The typographic masterpiece of the Aldine press was issued in 1499 in the famous Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, a bizarre and curious mixture of pedantry and sensualism," wrote Douglas McMurtrie. "Though no one takes the trouble to read the text of this extraordinary work any more, the volume itself, a folio of 234 leaves, displays a harmony of illustration and text which is truly amazing for its day and age and establishes it among the master works of printing of all ages."15
A key lesson from the early days of the Parenthesis is that in time, new technologies forge institutional change. Aldus created a new role and a new institution, raising this infant industry from mere manufacturing to publishing.16 For him, what mattered was not only what was published—what was in demand in the market—but why it was published. The publisher's task is to make judgments. To inform that judgment, Aldus surrounded himself with an intellectual salon, the Aldine Academy, inside his factory. "Scholars met at his home at a fixed time each day to decide which texts were to be printed and which manuscripts to adopt," said Febvre and Martin. "Among them were Venetian Senators, future prelates, professors, doctors and Greek scholars."17 Aldus' biographer, Martin Lowry, said his press room contained an "almost incredible mixture of the sweat shop, the boarding house and the research institute."18 Aldus attracted Erasmus to Venice as an author and a member of the society of his shop, where the theologian worked for months correcting proofs of his text. Erasmus said Aldus was "building up a library which has no other limits than the world itself."19 Aldus' reputation spread far, bringing the burden of celebrity. "Nearly every hour comes a letter from some scholar and if I undertook to reply to them all I should be obliged to devote day and night to scribbling. Then through the day come calls of all kinds of visitors," he complained to a friend. "I have now put a big notice on the door of my office to the following effect 'Whoever you are, you are earnestly requested by Aldus to state the business briefly and to take the departure promptly.' "20
Venice was host not only to Greek and Latin publishing but also to the first Hebrew Talmud, including a copy printed by Dutch immigrant Daniel Bomberg and commissioned by Henry VIII "to assist him in evaluating whether he should convert to Judaism to obtain a divorce."21 And the city gave birth to the first Qu'ran printed in Arabic, a fabled edition that was discovered by Italian scholar Angela Nuovo only in 1987.22 The book appeared to be a test run for what its publishers hoped would be a grand enterprise. "Their attempt is a total flop," said Alessandro Marzo Magno, recounting a tale—perhaps a fable—for what allegedly came next: "The Sultan ... considers the book the work of the devil, a blasphemy of the infidels, and so he orders that the ship, with the printed copies of the book and the characters used to print them, be accompanied out of port and scuttled in deep waters."23
Printing in Arabic brought practical complications. "Arabic caused great difficulties in uniting the letters because of their different shapes, according to their position and ligatures: therefore the design of the type, the casting of very many different sorts, and finally the composition of the text, were all much more complicated than for other alphabets," Nuovo noted.24 Printing in Arabic would not enter the Islamic world until 1706; it was authorized by Sultan Ahmed III—but only for other-than-sacred texts—in 1727. "Muslims demonstrated then, and later—until the eighteenth century—a great aversion to printing," Nuovo said. "For the Arabs, the handwritten word was a vehicle of cultural unity, as well as an artistic and spiritual aesthetic sense."25 Print's progress around the world—to the Arab world, to England and North America, to India and Africa—was uneven.
Venice claims the first book printed in Armenian and the first Bible in the vernacular, Italian, not to mention the first printed cookbook, and the first printed pornography (by Pietro Aretino, who published Sonetti Lussuriosi or Salacious Sonnets in 1527).26 Venice remained a publishing powerhouse, printing three times as many books as Rome and five times more than Florence.27 Why was Venice such a center for innovation? It could be the personalities who came there or its role as a locus of trade. I would like to think its freedoms were a factor. The Roman Church had to accommodate Venice's government; humanist patricians financed printing there; and the Inquisition came late. Thus, said Magno, "in the first half of the sixteenth century freedom of the press will be nearly absolute."28
In France, where Fust and Schöffer had been selling their books, the first printing came not from independent publishers but from an institution, a university: the Sorbonne. "The first printing venture in France derives its main interest from the fact that it was the first enterprise in which the publisher held the whip-hand over the printer," said Steinberg. In 1470, the university's rector, Guillaume Fichet, and the librarian invited three Germans to set up shop and then dictated which books to publish and which typefaces—roman, not gothic—to use.29 Fichet understood the power of print. "Bacchus and Ceres were made divinities for having taught humanity the use of wine and bread," he wrote. "Gutenberg's invention is of a higher and more divine order. It enables all that has been thought and said, to be preserved and transmitted to posterity."30 France—in Paris and Lyon—stayed a publishing powerhouse through the sixteenth century.
On the Iberian Peninsula, printing arrived in Spain in 1472 and—in Hebrew—in Portugal in 1487. In 1502, widespread censorship was imposed, forbidding the import of "false and defective" printed books, leading to a system of control by the inquisitor general, who drew up lists of forbidden titles. It was from the Iberian Peninsula that books came to the Americas. The first press in the New World started work in 1539 in Mexico City, printing books in Spanish and in native languages to further the Church's crusade to convert the population. The first press in North America came to Cambridge to serve Harvard in 1638, a century after Mexico's press and a century and a half after printing began in England.
England had lagged the Continent, for a number of reasons. It had no local paper production (and less linen with which to make it, since chilly Britons wore more wool). Andrew Pettegree said that because paper was imported and easily controlled, it was difficult to engage in clandestine publishing of more popular works. The nation's population was small—three million at the start of the sixteenth century—and much of that population was rural, in towns too small to support printers. Also, it had only two universities.31
When presses did arrive, England became the first nation outside Germany where printing was introduced by a native, William Caxton. He began his work life as an apprentice to a wealthy mercer—a merchant, usually of fabric—and in 1441 sailed to the Low Countries, where, as a young man of about 20 he became an agent for mercers back home, rising to a position of prominence as Governor of the English Nation at Bruges with the status of a diplomat in 1463. Caxton gained a love of language, admiring Chaucer, who had "made fair our English." He worried about the state of the tongue across his nation, where "common English that is spoken in one shire varyeth from another."32 So he came to translate the courtly French romance Recuyell of the Historyes of Troye, a collection of the histories of Troy, "to eschew sloth and idleness, which is mother and nourisher of vices, and to put myself into virtuous occupation and business."33 Traveling to Cologne for a year and half, Caxton witnessed and learned the art of printing and then set up a printing press in Bruges, where he published his translation—the first book printed in English—starting in 1473. He next translated and printed Game of Chess.
In 1476, Caxton returned to England and set up shop near Westminster Abbey, where he printed an indulgence against the Turks issued by Sixtus IV. By 1478, he took on the ambitious work of publishing Chaucer's Canterbury Tales. Caxton chose to use a variant of the black, gothic type of Germany rather than the roman typefaces of Italy; it was hardly beautiful. "Space and money were saved by having no punctuation and Caxton's apparent lack of type often caused him to use 'i' and 'y' indiscriminately and to drop the final 'e' in a word," Richard Deacon noted. "Caxton was a man in a hurry. He was a printer at war, firmly keeping his attention on the main task of propagating the English language in print."34 Seventy-one of the 110 books he printed were in English, setting an example for the English industry: fifty-nine percent of the books printed before 1501 were in the vernacular (versus fewer than thirty percent in the rest of Europe).35
In the raw, Caxton's own language appears transitional. The first known advertisement in English, for one of his books, read: "If it plese any man spirituel or temporel to bye ony pyes of two and thre commemoraios of Salisburi use empryntid after the forme of this preset lettre whiche ben wel and truly correct, late hym to come to Westmonester in to the almonry at the reed pale and he shal have them good chepe." He nonetheless began a process of setting down and standardizing the language. His books would provide the first known usage in English of more than 1,300 words.36 The tongue would still evolve before reaching its pinnacle in the King James Bible in 1611, more than a century after Caxton's death in 1491 or 1492. (Samuel Johnson's dictionary was published in 1755.) After his death, Caxton's magnificently monikered assistant, the Alsatian printer Wynkyn de Worde, continued the business, moving it to establish the heart of printing for four centuries on London's Fleet Street (until torn asunder by Rupert Murdoch in 1986).







9
The Troubles
Things would seem to have been going swimmingly for Gutenberg's new industry as it spread through Europe. But no. By the end of the century and the incunabular period, printers across Europe found they had more than met the demand for classical works, flooding the market and competing against themselves. Big books required big investment, and it was difficult to predict and find markets for them. Excited by the novelty of print and the opportunities for found money, capital poured into the fledgling industry at a level not justified by the returns. Many printers went out of business. Printing in smaller towns consolidated into larger markets. Printers begged authorities for protection and subsidies.
"The period from the end of the fifteenth century to the beginning of the Reformation in Germany can be seen as a period of stagnation in the book trade," said Hans-Jörg Künast. "In the southern part of the Holy Roman Empire, one could even call it a crisis. The supply of both books and printers outweighed demand, a situation worsened in this region by wars, plague epidemics and inflation. The book trade was repeatedly compromised by these setbacks." One could be forgiven for seeing similarities with the year 2000 tech bust in Silicon Valley: exuberant investment in the possibilities of new technology before proven need. "Print was," said Andrew Pettegree, "to a large extent a technology looking for a purpose."1 Said Künast: "The dire state of book printing around 1500 was well-expressed by a complaint from the Nuremberg printer and publisher Anton Koberger in May, 1500: 'Our trade is in a bad way; I can't turn a profit from books anymore and my overhead costs are far too great.' "2
Then came salvation—for the printing industry, at least—in the person of Martin Luther. Never mind the debate regarding whether Luther did or did not nail his theses onto the wood of the door of the Wittenberg church in 1517. The creak of the wooden press in Johann Rhau-Grunenberg's all-too-humble Wittenberg shop was heard louder than any hammer. Rhau-Grunenberg's printing was shoddy, but he was the only typesetter serving the new university where Luther taught, and so it is assumed he printed Luther's theses: one early in 1517 against medieval scholasticism, which Luther might have thought would be the more incendiary one, then another that fall enumerating the case against indulgences, with which the Church raised funds under the guise of selling salvation.3
The struggle over indulgences touches both Gutenberg and Mainz. Gutenberg and countless printers who followed him made good gulden from printing indulgences, some sold to subsidize local needs, such as building churches, and many more to raise armies to hold off the Turks in the decades after their conquest of Constantinople. In modern argot, printing made the business of indulgences scale. Single orders for indulgence certificates numbered as many as 200,000—jobs so large that work was likely divided among multiple printers.4 Thus printing helped amplify the impact and avarice of the Church. The business of indulgences swelled in 1476 when Sixtus IV declared that they could be purchased not just for the living sinner but also for departed kin biding time in purgatory. In 1515 Leo X ordered up indulgences to pay for the rebuilding of St. Peter's in Rome. For many, this was the pitch too far.
By this time, Pettegree said, indulgence fatigue had set in, and so the papal Curia, in an act of planned obsolescence, decreed that each new indulgence nullified the effect of prior indulgences. Local authorities, especially in Germany, resented so much cash leaving their lands to enrich Rome. Corruption piled upon corruption when Albrecht, archbishop of Magdeburg, paid Rome for the privilege of taking on another archbishopric—that of Mainz—and with it the elector's seat. To sell his quota of indulgences, Albrecht hired a salesman extraordinaire, Johann Tetzel, as grand inquisitor of indulgences in Germany. It is he who was alleged to have chanted that "as soon as a coin in the coffer rings, the soul from purgatory springs." It is he with whom Luther first jousted in print. Luther was far from the only priest, bishop, prince, or theologian to object to sales of indulgences, but Luther was the one who set his objections in type.
Early in 1517, Luther preached against indulgences. "Could an indulgence ensure passage to heaven? His answer was an emphatic no," Pettegree said. "The imperfectly contrite have no right to indulgence; the perfectly contrite have no need of it. Here lies a hint of the radicalizing influence of Luther's developing new doctrine of salvation."5 Here was Luther framing his theology of sola gratia, sola fide, sola Christus, sola scriptura—salvation by grace alone, justification by faith alone, through Christ and scripture alone—stripping the papacy and the Roman Church of their exclusive authority and power.
On October 31, 1517, Luther posted his Ninety-five Theses, also taking the bold move of sending them to Archbishop Albrecht, criticizing his traffic in indulgences: "Now, I do not so much complain about the quacking of the preachers, which I have not heard"— referring to Tetzel, who had not been permitted to speak in Wittenberg—"but I bewail the gross misunderstanding among the people which comes from these preachers, and which they spread everywhere among common men." Luther's theses were quickly reprinted in Nuremberg, in Latin and German, and in Leipzig and Basel, where Erasmus received a copy and sent it to his friend Thomas More. "With this pamphlet Luther's theses entered the bloodstream of the European intellectual community," said Pettegree.6
Tetzel responded to Luther with 106 theses in Latin, in print; students in Wittenberg burned 800 copies when they entered town. Luther responded in turn, in print, with his Sermon on Indulgence and Grace, a succinct statement in only twenty paragraphs. The thirteenth: "It is a grave error for anyone to think that they should aim to make satisfaction for their sins, when in fact God in His unfathomable grace always forgives those sins for free, desiring nothing in return except to live a good life from then on." The fourteenth: "Indulgences do not help people to improve, but tolerate and condone imperfection in them."7 The sermon went through twenty printings by 1520. A month after Luther first published it, Tetzel responded with his Rebuttal, in which he quoted all of Luther's points, verbatim. "Thus, within this one volume, the two antagonists are locked in a fateful struggle, inextricably linked by their common German tongue," wrote Dewey Weiss Kramer. In her translation of the Rebuttal, Kramer took the opportunity to reassess Tetzel, who had been caricatured by history as the greedy, corrupt tool of Albrecht and Rome. "One hears a genuine concern for the salvation of souls, praise of God's inestimable mercy, and a concern for the whole of Christendom," said Kramer. Luther responded again and Tetzel responded once more, each in German, each in print.8
In print, they conversed.
Luther made a series of profound choices. The first was to publish at all. His theses were intended for in-person, academic disputation, but Luther had his set on the page—which had considerable impact on the industry of print, creating a new and much larger audience. Next, he wrote in the vernacular, in German. Pettegree said this is the decision that may mark the true beginning of the Reformation. Luther had been at first unnerved when his theses, written in Latin, had been translated into German and published by Nuremberg printer Conrad Scheurl. He realized the implications of print: that his words would be set down permanently and spread widely. Luther wrote the printer: "My purpose was not to publish them, but first to consult a few of my neighbors about them, that thus I might either destroy them if condemned or edit them with the approbation of others. But now that they are printed and circulated far beyond my expectation, I feel anxious about what they may bring forth: not that I am unfavourable to spreading known truth abroad—rather this is what I seek—but because this method is not the best adapted to instruct the public. I have certain doubts about them myself, and should have spoken far differently and more distinctly had I known what was going to happen."9
Publishing in the vernacular rather than the vulgate, Luther no longer wrote only for academic colleagues and church officials but for a public, across the German-speaking lands. As I will explore later, the sociologist Jürgen Habermas contended that the public sphere did not form until the eighteenth century, and many scholars agree. But here was Luther speaking directly with and thus forming a public as both audience and participant in the debate. He published on behalf of the public, defending their rights against what he saw as ecclesiastical fraud and promoting their value as Christians on equal footing with clergy. And by publishing in German—and especially translating the Bible into German—Luther began to standardize the language, linking together a loose collection of principalities and free cities that would not become a nation until 1871.
One of Luther's most important contributions to the development of media was to demonstrate its conversational nature. The tone Luther chose was polemical, aimed not only at attacking his opponents but also at exciting his audience, no doubt aware that a blunt and clear argument would have more impact than dry, scholarly exposition. "For a man in middle age, already twenty years into a successful and conventional career as preacher and theologian, this discovery of a popular voice was a quite extraordinary event; and one that truly shaped the Reformation," wrote Pettegree and Matthew Hall.10 Here, for example, was Luther's concluding paragraph from his Sermon on Indulgence and Grace: "Even though I may well be branded a heretic by a number of people whose coffers are seriously damaged by these truths, I don't pay much attention to such blather, especially since the only ones doing this are certain dark minds who have never been within smelling distance of the Bible, never read the Christian teachers, never understood their own teachers, but, under their tattered, threadbare opinions, are all but wasting away." Tetzel's response: "First, it is totally erroneous, and it requires no riddled brain to know who is a heretic." Their words burned in text—and soon enough, each side burned the other's pages.
Luther's arguments were brief and his publications short, filling eight pages (a printer could churn out 500 copies in a day), making them inexpensive and quick to produce as pamphlets—in German, Flugschrift, literally "flying type." Pettegree estimated that six million copies of about 6,000 distinct pamphlets were published in the eight years of the Lutheran Reformation "pamphlet moment" between 1518 and 1526. Luther worked in other genres as well, writing more than forty hymns and publishing them in 1524 in an early hymnal intended for church and home. By some estimates, three to four million hymnals were printed in Germany in the sixteenth century. Song was critical in the growth of the Reformation.11
Luther's words spread fast and far, making his writing, his voice, and his theology impossible to control for the institution he challenged. "The Reformation might have been stifled and suppressed had it not been for its powerful ally, the German pamphlet," wrote Louise Holborn, noting the impact in turn on print. "For mass sale, quality had to be sacrificed to quantity. Printing changed from an art satisfying in itself to a vehicle to convey ideas and material."12 In its adoption, a technology shifts from one perceived role to another—here from art to communication, devotion to revolution—and it will shift countless times again, which is what makes it impossible to fully understand, judge, and control such a disruptive movement in its early days.
Luther received no payment for his writing, believing he should not be paid for doing God's work. Besides, copyright would not exist for another two centuries. Erasmus, on the other hand, did earn money from his writing, as likely the first living author to do so.13 Luther lured printers to Wittenberg to supplement the work of the humble Rhau-Grunenberg, of whose work he complained: "It is printed so poorly, so carelessly, and confusedly, to say nothing of bad typefaces and paper. Johann the printer is always the same old Johann and does not improve."14 Nonetheless, Luther supported Rhau-Grunenberg and other local printers by allowing them to be the first to publish his works. Before 1517, Wittenberg's printers turned out an average of eight books a year; after 1517 and until 1546, they produced ninety editions annually, adding up to three million copies, making their once-humble town Germany's largest publishing center.15 Once published, Luther knew others elsewhere would also print his words, as controversy bred celebrity.
In certain lands and times where censorship and retribution ruled, the name of the author and the substance of Lutheran publications, along with the names of their printers, had to be masked for the safety of creators and readers. But the market also came to understand the value of Luther's fame in propagating his work. In later publications, he would collaborate with his friend and ally in Wittenberg, the painter, print-maker, and briefly printer Lucas Cranach. "Thanks to the woodcut portraits taken from Cranach's sketches, Luther's was soon one of the best-known faces in Europe," Pettegree wrote in his study of Luther as brand. "Cranach's artfully presented portrait iconography of the solitary inspired man of God did much to build the mystique of Luther. In an age where few outside the ranks of the ruling classes would ever have had their portrait taken, this gave Luther a celebrity status that greatly enhanced his aura."16 Cranach would have a decisive role in setting a new standard for design in books and pamphlets, adding illustration and creating decorative title pages. Later, Luther's followers were also credited with inventing the satirical cartoon.17
In June 1520, Pope Leo issued the bull Exsurge Domine against Luther to "condemn, reprobate, and reject completely the books and all the writings and sermons of the said Martin, whether in Latin or in any other language" and to forbid anyone "to read, assert, preach, praise, print, publish or defend them," further ordering them to be burned.18 Luther publicly burned the document and wrote his response, Against the Execrable Bull of the Antichrist. Luther faced the pope's emissaries and Emperor Charles V, was excommunicated and condemned, but survived to found his faith. Luther had been likened by church authorities to earlier heretics, Jan Hus and John Wycliffe, the former burned alive and the latter exhumed and burned. Might those predecessors have persevered if they'd had the press? Certainly the press empowered Luther. In two years alone, 1518 and 1519, he wrote forty-five works printed in 291 editions.19 "Look at my work," he preached in 1522, "have I not alone broken off more from the pope, bishops, priests, and monks with my words than up to now all emperors, kings, and princes could do with all their forces."20
The disruption brought by Luther and those who followed him did not stop at wars of words. It led to years—one could say centuries—of armed warfare. One of Luther's disciples, Thomas Müntzer, carried Luther's beliefs to extremes, throwing out the Latin liturgy, publishing his own revolutionary texts (railing against "donkey fart" and "scrotum like" doctors of theology), leading iconoclastic purges of religious art, and inspiring a peasants' revolt, which in 1525 rose to become the largest rebellion in Europe before the French Revolution. Though in their printed manifesto the peasants did demand the right to appoint their priests, this was not just a religious war. It was also the explosion of a long-simmering economic struggle against serfdom and control of property. Latter-day communists would honor Müntzer as the leader of an early bourgeois revolution (picturing him on currency in East Germany). Luther, appalled at losing control of his movement and frightened at the violence he feared he had spawned, published an Admonition to Peace and, that failing, attacked the peasants in Against the Robbing and Murdering Hordes of Peasants, painting himself as a reactionary so soon after sparking his own revolution.21 Between 100,000 and 300,000 peasants were massacred and their war was soon lost.
Neither princes nor aristocrats nor bishops nor popes—nor Luther himself—could contain what he and the press had loosed. The Reformation spread under various leaders with differing doctrines. Some, like Erasmus, remained within the Church. He was producing books long before Luther and would become the second most published author in the period. His 1511 In Praise of Folly was a best-seller. The year before Luther posted his theses, Erasmus issued his translation of the Bible—about the time Luther reached out to Erasmus through an intermediary to admire but also question his work. Over time, the two ended up dueling in print, Erasmus criticizing Luther in On Free Will in 1524, Luther responding in On the Bondage of the Will, and Erasmus countering once more in Hyperaspistes the next year—conversing via the press.
At this time, Erasmus was working on his books with the printer Johann Froben, staying in Froben's Basel home and editing in the print shop. In a first known description of the process of printing, a 1534 letter from scholar and statesman Viglius Zuichemus reported on a visit to Froben's shop and all the jobs undertaken there: cutter of types, founder of types, compositor, pressman, folder of paper, and corrector, a "function generally entrusted to some scholar. ... And this task Erasmus of Rotterdam himself (to whom the Frobenian Printing-house owes its first fame) did not scorn to undertake: as a result of which his works saw the light all the more correctly."22 Froben had published Luther, to considerable success, but an alarmed Erasmus urged him to stop. "Any further airing of Luther's views could provoke a crackdown that might well undermine [Erasmus'] own more gradual efforts at reform," wrote Michael Massing. "This put Froben in a difficult spot. Erasmus was his premier writer and the main source of his reputation as Europe's leading publisher. But the Luther collection [Ad Leonem X] had sold faster than anything of Erasmus's, and the market for this fresh new voice seemed huge." Erasmus stood firm and threatened to leave Froben. Erasmus prevailed and Froben relented, dropping Luther. "It would prove a fateful decision—for Froben, not Luther," Massing said. "With so many presses now in operation, Froben's withdrawal simply left the field open to others, and new editions of Ad Leonem X soon appeared in Strasbourg, Antwerp, Vienna, and beyond. More generally, the printing industry as a whole was about to undergo a dramatic transformation, leaving Froben—and Erasmus—behind."
Erasmus feared Rome's revenge, but it was the spread of Lutheranism that was more profoundly felt in Basel as iconoclasts set off sprees of destruction in churches, demanded the end of the Mass, and required that the city officially join the Reformation. In 1529, Erasmus left the city. In his last letter to Luther in 1525, Erasmus had stormed: "What distresses me, as it distresses all decent people, is the fact that because of your arrogant, insolent, and turbulent personality you cause a fatal dissension that unsettles the whole world, you expose good men and lovers of the humanities to the fury of the Pharisees, and you arm wicked and rebellious men for revolution."23 Though Erasmus' writing was also condemned by the Church, he did not leave its priesthood. It is often said that Erasmus laid the egg that Luther hatched.
Print's best customer had been the Catholic Church, until it wasn't. Lutheranism and the various Protestant offshoots became better business. In due time, Catholic leaders tried to use print to battle all these heresies, but not as quickly and as aggressively as they could have. "The Roman establishment clung to the notion that there was no good in arguing with heretics," said Christoph Volkmar. "In their eyes, even defying Luther would compromise the magisterium of the Church." Eventually, in 1559, the Church would respond to Luther and other heretics by establishing the Index Librorum Prohibitorum (Index of Prohibited Books).

It may be tempting to ask whether the new technology of printing by its nature favored Protestants over Catholics, insurgents over incumbents. (Does talk radio favor conservatives and television liberals? What of the internet?) But it would be a mistake to ascribe a character to the machine or its product. The opportunities printing presented were exploited by the establishment and the revolutionaries, each contending for control.
At the International Journalism Festival in Perugia, Italy, in 2019, I debated with a German regulator about the internet's freedoms and joked that we probably have much disruption still ahead of us: As Europe faced the Thirty Years' War more than 150 years after Gutenberg, perhaps our war of the net is yet to come. With not a gram of irony, my opponent chided me, saying it was too soon to joke about a war that ended in 1648.24 Perhaps he was right, for it can be argued that this struggle over religion, which eventually broke out into a war that reset borders and realigned power throughout Europe, is still being fought to this day. The press did not cause it; neither did Luther alone. The tensions that existed over the power of the church, over territorial jealousies, and over economic inequity were present long before. Luther was one of many agents to identify the hunger for change and who used the press to make his case and convince his public.
Printing was the expression of freedom. It was also the expression of the market. In the Low Countries, printers experimented with specialties: chivalric romances and moralities in the south, school books and theology elsewhere. When initial demand was met and markets shrank, printing consolidated into larger cities. Then new markets beckoned as censorship in some countries drove business to lands with press freedom. "When the English authorities moved to impede publication of evangelical texts, Antwerp became a major centre of production for Protestant works in English, destined for clandestine distribution across the Channel," Pettegree reported. "Lutheran books were also published in Danish, for export north, and the ban on the publication of Protestant Bibles in Paris opened up a further lucrative French market." And there was a strong local market for Reformation literature; eight of Luther's works were published in Dutch during his lifetime. Antwerp printers worked in fifteen languages and had the advantage of ready capital in a rich trading city. Though Charles V tried to control evangelical publishing—the printer Adriaen van Berghen was banished from Antwerp and later beheaded for printing Protestant works—evangelical printing persisted.25
In his book on Dutch publishing, Printed Pandemonium, Michel Reinders instructed that the disorganized civil structure of the Netherlands—as in Germany—made it difficult to impose centralized control of printing, as was possible in France or England. "One cannot ascribe to the Dutch an innate love for freedom of speech, or freedom of the press," Reinders maintained.26 Perhaps because of freedom seized rather than freedom granted, or perhaps because of economic advantage, the Low Countries in any case became—as Pettegree and coauthor Andrew der Weduwen called the Dutch market in the title of their book—The Bookshop of the World.27
Dialogue in print and with the public resulted not only in provocation and polemic, but it also aided the cause of advancing knowledge. "Sixteenth-century editors and publishers, who served the Commonwealth of Learning, did not merely store data passively in compendia. They created vast networks of correspondents, solicited criticism of each edition, sometimes publicly promising to mention names of readers who sent in new information or who spotted errors which would be weeded out." So said Elizabeth Eisenstein, who cited the example of Abraham Ortelius' the Theatrum Orbis Terrarum, considered the first atlas, published in Antwerp in 1570. Readers and cartographers contributed corrections as well as their own maps. Other publishers inspired readers to embark on research projects and expeditions, with naturalists sending in reports and even samples of flora. Collaborative data collection benefited zoology, bibliography, art history, literary studies. "Thus," Eisenstein said, "a knowledge explosion was set off."28
The spread of printing coincided with the ability of publishers to find new forms, new genres, and new customers—past religious and humanistic titles for official markets (church and civic) to novels, essays, romances, and reference, legal, and medical books. As Robert Darnton observed: "Before this 'Leserevolution' [reading revolution], readers tended to work laboriously through a small number of texts, especially the Bible, over and over again. Afterwards, they raced through all kinds of material, seeking amusement over edification. The shift from intensive to extensive reading coincided with a desacralization of the printed word."29 Innovation followed.







10
Creation with Print
A century and a half after the invention of print came an astonishing cascade of invention with print: the birth of the modern novel, the conception of the essay, the development of a market for printed plays, and the debut of the newspaper—all occurring within years of each other at the turn of the seventeenth century.
Why did it take so long after Gutenberg for these ideas to come to life? Was the passage of so many generations required to overcome the reflex to protect incumbent power? Was time needed to stop envisioning the future only in the analog of the known? Did this innovation await other developments to make it possible—for example, the establishment of postal systems to provide both material and distribution for new kinds of books and news? Did these new genres require as prerequisite a virtuous spiral of reading: print spurring a rise in literacy sufficient to support a market for print? One might wonder whether the Early Modern world had to endure its era of volcanic change—the Reformation, the Thirty Years' War—to clear the way for new invention. Did the Renaissance and Reformation alter society's sense of individuality and expression and open the imagination to what was possible in text? Did the artistic spirit of the Renaissance inhabit the souls of not just painters, sculptors, and musicians but finally writers? Did the culture of the time need to move past the humanistic, backward-facing adoration of antiquity before being able to strike new paths to the future? Or was it the dawning realization among monarchs and popes that they could not control the fruits of Gutenberg's invention that finally made way for freedom of expression in the medium?
Perhaps specialization in the field created an environment to support experimentation and innovation. The job of printer was splitting into multiple, discrete roles and enterprises: printer, publisher, bookseller, editor, author. Publishers and printers themselves began to concentrate on different forms of print—books, pamphlets, broadsides, and newspapers; different genres—nonfiction, fiction, verse, drama, and various ephemera; different topics—religion, news, law, science, literature; and different customers—academics, officials, business people, or casual readers.
Note well that in this period and for another two centuries, the technology of print essentially did not change. So maybe what was needed was for the technology to become commonplace, taken for granted, allowing creators to concentrate their imaginations not on the machine but on what they could do with it. "Communications tools don't get socially interesting until they get technologically boring," wrote New York University's Clay Shirky. "The invention of a tool doesn't create change; it has to have been around long enough that most of society is using it. It's when a technology becomes normal, then ubiquitous, and finally so pervasive as to be invisible, that the really profound changes happen."1
Here I will call upon the intertwined stories of authors credited as the first modern writers, even the first modern personages, each of whom examined the self and its contradictions, in print, for publics.

Scholars still debate how much interest Shakespeare took in printing and how much interest publishers took in him. Lukas Erne, who studied the relationship, concluded they were important to each other. "As early as the 1590s, we can witness a process of legitimation of dramatic publications leading to their establishment as a genre of printed texts in its own right rather than as a pale reflection of what properly belongs to the stage," he wrote.2
And so—pardon me—the stage was set for playwrights to appear both in the theater and on the printed page. "Shakespeare was a man of the theater who wrote plays for the stage, but he was also a dramatist and poet who wanted to be read and who witnessed his rise as print-published author," said Erne. "While the theater made Shakespeare rich, the printing press ensured the survival of his works and made possible his posthumous rise to world-wide fame."3 Shakespeare is important to the story of the book as a bridge in the long transition from performance to print, and from oral to textual culture.
As I will explore later, the modern sense of copyright and of ownership of creativity as property did not emerge in law for another century, in the early 1700s. In the England of Shakespeare's time, the printing of books was governed by monopolies granted for certain works by the Stationers' Company, which was charged as an extra-governmental body with overseeing both the trade of printing and the content of books. Plays were controlled by theatrical companies that performed them and some historians believe these companies had no interest in seeing plays printed, for fear they would be pirated on others' stages.
The first known book of Shakespeare's to be published was the narrative poem "Venus and Adonis," registered with the Stationers' Company on April 18, 1593, just as the Bard was turning twenty-nine. By that time, he had a career as playwright, actor, and shareholder in his theater company, known as the Lord Chamberlain's Men and later the King's Men. His plays soon followed to the press. "Pick up one and its distinctive features will probably be bad paper, wretched type, and careless and slovenly press-work," wrote H.R. Plomer. Regarding Romeo and Juliet: "Never was a masterpiece ushered into the world in a worse manner. The printer started with a type which, in spite of its worn condition, was fairly readable, but before he had half finished the work, he substituted a very much smaller and even more worn fount. The compositor's work was of the worst description, reversed letters and mis-readings being sprinkled over every page."4 Then there is the infamous "bad quarto" of Hamlet, to wit:

To be or not to be, I there's the point
No, to sleepe, to dreame, I mary there it goes,
For in that dreame of death when wee awake,
And borne before an everlasting Judge,
From whence no passenger ever retur'nd,
The undiscovered country, at whose sight
The happy smile, and the accursed damn'd.

Plomer excused the printers, explaining that most of them suffered because they did not hold lucrative licenses to print the schoolbooks Accidence and the Grammar and "found it nearly impossible to make a living by their trade. The printers were thus compelled to seek work that was out of the reach of the monopolists."5 Such as plays.
But they were not merely scraping barrels for content; they were building a profitable business in printed plays, and Shakespeare was a leading light in the market. Publishers—who, distinct from printers, took on the role of managing intellectual property—risked capital to publish Shakespeare's books.6 One of those publishers, Edward Blount, also produced first English translations of Cervantes' Don Quixote and Montaigne's Essays. Shakespeare himself had limited control over the printing of his works. Often plays were published without authors' names. Once Shakespeare's name proved to be marketable, it was purloined to appear on some works he had little to do with, such as a collection of poems entitled The Passionate Pilgrim. Shakespeare apparently expressed his displeasure, for his name disappeared from a subsequent edition, which Erne cited as evidence of the Bard's concern for his reputation.7
"In the year 1600 Shakespeare was the best-published writer in London," said Douglas Bruster.8 Between 1593, when playhouses reopened after a closing forced by the plague, and 1616, when Shakespeare died, sixty-five editions of his plays and poems were published; eighteen of the thirty-nine plays attributed to him were published while he lived. In that period, forty-five of the 263 playbooks published—seventeen percent—were by Shakespeare, far more than the proportion of his plays on stage, Erne calculated. More than half his plays were reprinted in at least a second edition to meet continuing demand. "Quite clearly," said Erne, "Shakespeare, in many ways, was not just one playwright among many, providing scripts for an entertainment industry, but an exceptionally successful dramatist who had his plays printed and reprinted like no one else."9 Bruster asserted that Shakespeare was sensitive to the market's tastes, for as they bought more of his verse than his prose, he responded by writing more verse.10
Together, Shakespeare and his publishers had to overcome literary prejudice. Sir Thomas Bodley, who rebuilt Oxford University's library, which had been gutted in the Reformation, decreed that the institution that would later bear his name should not collect "such bookes as almanackes, plais, & an infinit number, that are daily printed, of very unworthy maters & handling." He called plays "riff-raff" and wrote in a 1612 letter to the first keeper of the library: "Happely some plaies may be worthy the keeping: but hardly one in fortie."11
It is against such a tide that Shakespeare and his publishers used the press to build a successful and soon-respected genre of plays in print. After Shakespeare's death, his two fellow actors and shareholders in their theater company, John Heminges and Henry Condell, paid him the tribute of superseding all the sloppy printing that had come before by compiling correct and full versions of most of his plays into the fabled First Folio edition, published in 1623 by Edward Blount and William and Isaac Jaggard, who printed it. In their introductory letter to readers, Heminge and Condell wrote that his plays "have had their triall alreadie" on stage and now would appear properly in print. "Reade him, therefore; and againe, and againe: And if then you doe not like him, surely you are in some manifest danger, not to understand him."12

Miguel de Cervantes sought success as a poet and playwright. Instead, he is credited with creating the modern novel. In The Man Who Invented Fiction: How Cervantes Ushered in the Modern World, William Egginton wrote that Cervantes brought empathy born of his life's experience to an Early Modern, humanistic ethic of valuing the individual. He created a form of writing that allowed the reader to at once witness characters' actions and interrogate their inner thoughts. He taught readers to understand a situation from conflicting perspectives. "We ask of fiction not whether it is true, but what would it be like for us if it were true," Egginton said. "For fiction is not a picture of the world; it is a picture of how we, and others, picture the world; the truths it tells are not the factual ones of history, or the more philosophical ones of poetry; but the subjective truths that can be revealed only when we suspend our disbelief and imagine ourselves as someone completely different."13
Cervantes lived the lives of a dozen men. The stuttering son of a struggling doctor, he went to study with the Jesuits and fell in love with poetry. As a young man, he injured an opponent in a duel, was sentenced to ten years' banishment and the loss of his right hand, escaped Spain to Italy, joined the army and fought heroically as a harquebusier, was injured and permanently lost the use of his left hand. "I lost the movement of my left hand," he said, "for the greater glory of my right."14 He was taken prisoner by Barbary pirates and enslaved for five years under Hasan Pasha, a zealous Venetian convert to Islam. While in bondage in Algiers, he attempted multiple foiled escapes, learning to see the world through a quite different lens, and gathering material for poems, plays, and stories in novels to come. Cervantes was finally ransomed, returning to Spain after a decade away. He tried for years to gain an appointment by the crown but failed. He took jobs as a spy and a tax collector that were worse than thankless. He spent much of his life in debt and some time in prison for trying to collect others' debts, where he again saw life through unfortunates' eyes.
Being able to put thoughts in the minds and mouths of his characters was a necessary skill for a writer in the time of the Inquisition, as it let Cervantes safeguard dangerous words in the minds of fools. (Erasmus did likewise in The Praise of Folly, though that did not save him from being added to the Vatican's Index of Forbidden Books.) Cervantes was writing prose in a time when the Church in Spain "vigorously opposed such new trends in writing, claiming that the reading of imaginative fiction undermined the moral fibre of society," said Cervantes' biographer Donald McCrory.15 Cervantes gave moral lessons to his readers—"tasty and morally beneficial fruit," in his words16—and had his Knight of the Mournful Countenance speak to power. But Egginton added: "Cervantes doesn't merely mock the foolish; he understands them. And he understands them because he recognizes himself in them." Thus he "puts words both praising individual deeds of bravery and condemning the modern practice of warfare into the mouth of an errantly foolish knight capable of moments of great wisdom and lucidity. Clearly Cervantes was justly proud of the valor that led him to face death and survive; but just as clearly these words spring forth from a figure who is comical in his devotion to ideals that the world around him fails to value or even to recognize."17
Egginton further proposed that Cervantes could "juxtapose ideals and their inevitable disappointment" to demonstrate empathy for different points of view, which "in turn animated the characters he created, pulling them into relief by virtue of the difference between their views and those of their counterparts."18 In such dialectics, he offered the nuance and the learning fiction affords. Said McCrory: "To be virtuous, Cervantes would argue, the individual has to know and be exposed to its opposite."19
Like Shakespeare, Cervantes straddled stage and page. He said he wrote twenty to thirty plays—including one about his time in captivity, The Business of Algiers—but most are lost. Though he believed he had the power in theater as in fiction "to portray the imaginings and hidden thoughts of the soul,"20 and though he saw the stage as more profitable, he came to extol the advantage of taking time to read, "so that what is seen in a hurry and hidden or misunderstood when it is performed can be read slowly."21 Like Shakespeare, Cervantes was a bridge from oral to textual, creating a form that—though read aloud in many a tavern and home—was destined first for the page and the eye.
Cervantes wrote the first book of Don Quixote in 1605, followed by his dozen short stories, the Exemplary Novellas, in 1613, and finally the second book of Quixote in 1615. His publisher, Francisco de Robles, Madrid's leading publisher and the third generation of a family in the book trade since the 1550s, hired Juan de la Cuesta to print the first book, which went on sale in Robles' three shops. It sold so well that Robles had the printer begin work on a second edition; the two together sold more than 3,500 copies, impressive at a time when press runs usually ran below 1,000. Though his novel was successful, Cervantes remained in debt.

Michel de Montaigne is credited with creating an ultimate expression of individuality, the essay. Just as Cervantes was self-aware about the pioneering status of his invention, so was Montaigne. He could claim not only the invention of a genre but the coinage of its name. Montaigne labeled his pieces essais after the French word meaning a trial, an attempt, an experiment. More than that—according to the headline of a New Yorker essay about him and the title of a Michael Barry play—he was The First Modern Man. Leonard Woolf called him "the first completely modern man in his intense awareness of and passionate interest in the individuality of himself and of all other human beings."22
Montaigne had no models for what he was concocting, said Barry Lydgate, "for no earlier writer had attempted the creation of such a public self-image.... Montaigne's innovation in 1580 was to break with the tradition of collective participation and to address precisely the singular consciousness of the reader."23 Thus it was not Montaigne's individualism that mattered so much as yours, his reader's. In his beautiful essay on essays, "Montaigne; or, the Skeptic," Ralph Waldo Emerson called him "the frankest and honestest of all writers," and then leavened his praise with a caveat, crowning him also "this prince of egotists."24 In a mix of humility and hubris, Montaigne said of his own creation: "Finding myself quite empty, with nothing to write about, I offered myself to myself as theme and subject matter. It is the only book of its kind in the world, in its conception wild and fantastically eccentric. Nothing in this work of mine is worthy of notice except that bizarre quality, for the best craftsman in the world would not know how to fashion anything remarkable out of material so vacuous and base."25
Montaigne was hardly everyman. A French nobleman with a large inheritance, he was a confidant of kings, peacemaker in the midst of Catholic-Protestant strife, twice mayor of Bordeaux, raised to speak Latin as his mother tongue, and able to afford the luxury of closing himself off in a garret library on his estate to think and write. Yet in Montaigne, so many see themselves. Said Sarah Bakewell in her lovely How to Live, or, A Life of Montaigne, "The Essays is thus much more than a book. It is a centuries-long conversation between Montaigne and all those who have got to know him: a conversation which changes through history, while starting out afresh almost every time with that cry of 'How did he know all that about me?' "26 Emerson said of first reading the book: "I remember the delight and wonder in which I lived with it. It seemed to me as if I had myself written the book, in some former life, so sincerely it spoke to my thought and experience."27 Wrote Stefan Zweig: "Here is a 'you', in which my 'I' is reflected, here the distance between one epoch and another is expunged. This is not a book I hold in my hands, this is not literature or philosophy, but a man to whom I am a brother, a man who counsels me, consoles me, a man whom I understand and who understands me. When I pick up the Essais, the printed paper dissolves in the half-light of the room."28
Bloggers claim Montaigne as their patron saint; worse, Andrew Sullivan claimed Montaigne as a blogger.29 Thus Montaigne makes it seem to us that all our lives are worth thick books of reflection. But he did not intend to open a spillway of content upon the world. "Montaigne was acutely aware that printing, far from simplifying knowledge, had multiplied it, creating a flood of increasingly specialized information without furnishing uniform procedures for organizing it," said Lydgate. "Montaigne laments the chaotic proliferation of books in his time and singles out in his jeremiad a new race of 'escrivains ineptes et inutiles' 'inept and useless writers' on whose indiscriminate scribbling he diagnoses a society in decay.... 'Scribbling seems to be a sort of symptom of an unruly age.' "30 The internet, with its endless supply of blogs, social media, newsletters, podcasts, and hot takes, releases a similar bounty or scourge, depending on your view, of fresh scribbling.
Shakespeare and Cervantes spoke through the masks of characters in plays or on pages. Montaigne had the curious courage to speak as himself, to examine and criticize himself, simply to be himself, which was all the more remarkable because he did so in public. What public, exactly? He said in his opening letter to the reader that "I have dedicated this book to the private benefit of my friends and kinsmen, so that, having lost me (as they must do soon) they can find here again some traits of my character and of my humours."31 He soon saw he was speaking to a wider world. "Amusing notion: many things that I would not want to tell anyone, I tell the public; and for my most secret knowledge and thoughts I send my most faithful friends to the bookseller's shop."32 Montaigne was self-aware not merely of his quirks, habits, tastes, and faults. He was cognizant of the effect writing had on his thought; that is what marks him as the man of print, as modern. "Montaigne's fascination with process as distinct from product (it is the feel and texture of reflection, rather than the assembled results, that one finds portrayed in the Essais) reveals a writer gifted with unprecedented sensitivity to the mysteries of writing," said Lydgate. "The fixity and permanence of printed texts reinforce the thematic unity already implicit in the notion of a book. Ideas in print look like ideas in definitive shape; they share automatically in the finality and durability of the medium."33
Montaigne's process was fascinating, as revealing as it is mysterious, for he saw his words in print as at once permanent yet plastic. He began writing the same year that Simon Millanges opened a print shop in Bordeaux. It is believed that Montaigne helped finance the first printing of the Essays' first two volumes, at least by buying two cartloads of paper.34 Soon after publishing the first edition in 1580, he began writing more essays. In 1588, he offered a third volume with thirteen new chapters and made 600 changes in the first two volumes, rarely if ever correcting himself but instead adding new and sometimes contradictory thoughts. "I never correct my first thoughts by second ones—well, except perhaps for the odd word, but to vary it, not to remove it. I want to show my humors as they develop, revealing each element as it is born."35 A posthumous 1595 edition added yet another raft of changes.
A commercial interpretation of his revisions is that by substantially changing his text, Montaigne was able to receive new, ten-year licenses for the original book. Another view is that this was a way to keep creative command over his thoughts, for he was conscious of "mortgaging his work to the world" in a book and losing grasp of it, even rights to it; by revision he maintained control.36 Most likely, he was seeking to perfect his life's work or to perfect himself, growing alongside his text to reveal development in his thought. He acknowledged the recursive impact of publishing on himself: "I no more made my book than my book made me."37 He was very much a man of the book, a creation a century and a half in the making.

Dror Wahrman labeled the period of invention that spawned Shakespeare, Cervantes, and Montaigne at the turn of the seventeenth century print 2.0,38 mimicking the internet neologism web 2.0, coined in 2004 by tech publisher Tim O'Reilly,39 who claimed that the web—made available to the public only a decade before—was already entering its next generation. Some might say this is evidence of the speed of the technological era—that what took a century and a half in print came in only a decade online. But I say that is just the hubris of the present tense and our age. Technology might spread quickly but the change it brings is not so swift, except in the perception of those in the midst of it.
We would do well to follow the example of those who took a technology that had become everyday and used it to create daring new forms, new genres, new cultural institutions. Said Marshall McLuhan: "Indirect comment on the effects of the printed book is available in abundance in the work of Rabelais, Cervantes, Montaigne, Swift, Pope, and Joyce. They used typography to create new art forms."40 Have we yet created truly new art forms with the net?







11
The Birth of the Newspaper
To our eyes, it might seem self-evident that one could take this invention, printing, and use it to inform readers of what is happening in their communities and in the world. Yet the first regularly published newspaper using Gutenberg's movable type was not founded until a century and a half after the Bible. In 1605, Johann Carolus had the idea to take the handwritten newsletters he was already selling to a small group of subscribers and print them, so he could sell more.
From the first, printing produced more than books. In the study of book history, these other forms—posters, ads, proclamations, and news—are called ephemera. Though fleeting, they were key to the success and survival of printing shops, giving their proprietors more products to sell and jobs with sure revenue. Such work required less capital investment, time, and risk than weighty book projects.
Some of these ephemera changed lives in profound ways, as printing helped establish bureaucracies and served commerce. "Individuals and groups were bound, freed and defined by printed and filled-in forms of understanding and obligation. People were baptized, married and buried by forms and documents; and eighteenth-century finance, commerce and industry proceeded on a raft of printed and blank chits, certificates, and authorizations," wrote James Raven. There were "bills of exchange, remittance and retail vouchers, mortgage and share certificates, insurance policies and receipts of deposit and credit, passports, settlement papers, social tickets and the like." As Raven cautioned, though: "A more organized world was not necessarily, of course, a more liberated world. Indeed, the collection of information, from civic and fiscal enumeration to the civil registration of familial (or what demographers call 'vital') events represented a new ordering, social arrangement, and 'control' that linked intolerance with modernity, regimentation with progress."1 Print made possible the structured collection and preservation of standardized information, of data, at scale.
Printing was indeed used to tell citizens, communities, and nations what was happening around them, only at first without the form of the newspaper and the independent intermediary of the journalist. Gutenberg and Fust were printing calendars and indulgences against the Turks as they printed their books. In the Mainz archbishops' war, Fust and Schöffer printed propaganda for each side as well as papal bulls and letters. About half of the titles Schöffer printed in his career were not books but pamphlets and broadsides, half of those dealing with the threat of the Turks. One of the earliest examples of news in print was a poem published as a pamphlet in Milan in 1470, telling of the fall of Venetian possessions in Greece. "Narrating an actual event, it merged entertainment and information," said Massimo Petta. "As for the narrative, this pamphlet did not launch a brand new textual typology, but rather followed an established genre, the chivalric poem, which was then about to experience an expansion thanks to the printing press."2 New tools—whether narrative forms or printing presses—are at first adapted to familiar uses and needs.
Printers often found customers in officialdom, publishing laws and decrees for princes and bulls for popes. Broadsides (large, single-sheet, usually single-sided printing) and broadsheets (printed on both sides) were put to many uses: as official decrees, calls to protest, some of the earliest advertisements (frequently for the printer's own books), news, and songs. The word "broadside" has become synonymous with strongly worded attacks, but the form was used for most anything meant for public display. Broadsides "were single sheets of paper with no pretensions or permanence," said Leslie Shepard. "They were discarded after reading; at best they might be pasted up on walls, on cupboard doors, or put in albums. The broadside was essentially printed for the day, as ephemeral as yesterday's newspaper or a handbill given in the streets."3 Few such items survive because they were used up and discarded, valued in the moment and not for posterity.

In its youth, print was seen as less reliable than what we would now call rumor. With word-of-mouth, one could judge the source: the courier who had just ridden in from Florence, whose word has been proven reliable before, and the innkeeper and postmaster who pass on reports, mindful of maintaining their own reputations. Relationships were the wires that connected early, oral news networks. Print, on the other hand, was new and suspicious because its provenance was opaque; someone unseen had produced it. "This comparatively intimate circle of news exchange was significantly disrupted by the birth of a commercial news market," Andrew Pettegree wrote in his definitive history, The Invention of News: How the World Came to Know About Itself. "The market for news spread beyond those for whom it was a professional necessity to be informed, to new, more naïve and inexperienced consumers."4
Today, the situation is reversed: print conveys authority while content and conversation on social media are regarded as unreliable rumor, and users there are viewed as naive and inexperienced speakers. It took a century and a half to invent the institution of the newspaper to begin to establish credibility in contemporary, informational print. What new institutions must we invent today to build credibility online?
It's true that in their day, pamphlets, broadsheets, and song sheets that spread news were often scurrilous and sensationalistic. In a fictional tale from 1596, a tradesman wondered about making a business selling news ballads:

It doesn't much matter whether the story's true.
The world wants to be deceived,
they buy lies for good money.
The more outrageous the lie, the better the sales,
as all singers know very well.5

News-singers were often itinerant salespeople who would come to a fair or market and perform their wares to sell them. Their ballads frequently came with woodcut illustrations. In Germany and Italy, itinerant singers sometimes traveled with large oil paintings of events to illustrate the subjects of their songs. Their topics varied widely. A study of surviving broadsheets in England between 1557 and 1640 found a quarter were about miscellaneous matters of life, a quarter were romances, a fifth were fictional, another fifth were about news, and the rest were religious.6 Fiction might feature Robin Hood. An example of a romantic ballad: A maydens lamentation for a bedfellow. Or, I can, nor will no longer lye alone. News songs, which could be printed rapidly and were thus responsive to events, told tales of notorious crimes, hangings, strange celestial occurrences, victories (more often than not) in battle, monstrous births, or nearby tragedies, for example: A brief sonet declaring the lamentation of Beckles, a market towne in Suffolke which was in the great winde upon S. Andrewes eve pitifully burned with fire to the value by estimation of twentie thousand pounds. Or one might find moral admonition in song: A most excellent godly new ballad: [shew]ing the manifold abuses of this wicked world, the intolerable pride of people, the wantonnesse [of] women, the dissimulation of flatterers, the subtilty of deceivers, the beastliness of drunkards, the filthinesse of whoredom, the unthriftines of gamesters, the cruelty of landlords, with a number of other inconucadences. To the tune of Grene-sleeves.7
In France, songs were collected into recueils, cheap songbooks on many topics. Lyrics were often contrafactum (that is, attached to known melodies so they were easier to sing and sell). They made use of rhyme and played to emotions so they would be memorized and passed along to much wider audiences, sometimes with verses added on the way. Consequently, songs were difficult for authorities to control, especially when the subject was protest. Alongside Shakespeare, Cervantes, and Montaigne, broadside ballads were another bridge from oral and performative—as well as collaborative—culture to textual culture.8 "The broadside was not a new phase of human activity but rather a convenient chapter in an ageless story," said Shepard. "The act of printing was, so to speak, merely superimposed on an oral tradition that had already found new directions."9
Both song-sellers and pamphlet peddlers were regarded as an undesirable stratum of society, their subject matter tawdry. Elizabeth Eisenstein said print should shoulder much of the blame for the dissemination of moral panic and conspiracy theories around witchcraft. Illustrated German news broadsides alleged witches' crimes, including robbery, the destruction of livestock and pastures, murder, infanticide, arson, weather magic, and desecration of the communion host—and then documented their punishments, with the public reading of their confessions and then their deaths, often by fire. "Undoubtedly," said Abaigéal Warfield, "such stories overlap with contemporary accounts of Jewish ritual murder and blood libel." Print was the vehicle for the larger exploration of demonology, led by the publication of the Malleus Maleficarum, a 1486 treatise on witchcraft that set forth the legal and religious rationale for their extermination. The audience for these works on witchcraft was by no means just the lower classes. Warfield said the learned and elite also bought them. Erasmus himself wrote in a letter about the case of the witch of Schiltach, accused of burning her town with the help of the devil; the theologian was at least somewhat skeptical of this "common talk."10
Print carried both the credible and the incredible. "If more attention was paid to the effect of print," wrote Eisenstein, "one would not be surprised that humanist scholarship coexisted with efforts to codify demonology or increased concerns about pacts with the Devil.... Mystification as well as enlightenment resulted from the output of early printers." The witch craze, fundamentalism, and Erasmus' career were all simultaneously "a by-product of Gutenberg's invention," Eisenstein said. "One of the advantages of considering the effects produced by printing is that we can come to terms with the coexistence of incompatible views and the persistence of contradictory movements without treating any as anomalous and without forcing them into over-simple grand designs. The many changes introduced by the new technology, far from synchronizing smoothly or pointing in one direction, contributed to disjunctions, worked at cross-purposes and operated out of phase with each other."11 Keep that quote in mind when later I return to discuss accusations that Eisenstein was a technological determinist. Here she was clearly saying that technology and its effects travel according to no map. Keep that in mind, too, when hearing contention that the internet is overtaken by lies.

A critical precondition for the birth of news was the establishment of more efficient networks of transportation. The Romans built roads to provide the transportation and communication needed to control their empire. In the sixteenth century, relatively fast and economical communication at last became available for unofficial—business and personal—use. Emperor Maximilian I set up his imperial postal system in 1490, hiring the Taxis (Tasso) family, who had run a private courier service linking Milan, Rome, and Venice for two centuries and who would run this network until the fall of the empire in 1806. "Theirs is one of the great unsung achievements of European civilisation," said Pettegree.12
The Taxis company established posts at regular intervals (twenty-two miles in the early days and years later only nine miles apart) where couriers could rest and change horses over the five or six days it took to traverse between, say, Innsbruck and Brussels. The posts were often run by innkeepers, who then became sources and distributors of news. As time went on, postmasters would compete with printers for licenses to publish newspapers.
The postal network had expanded by 1530, when Emperor Charles V appointed Johann Baptist von Taxis postmaster-general of the Holy Roman Empire and his other holdings; it was connected in turn to other networks in other nations. In 1608 Milan's deputy postmaster general published Nuovo itinerario delle Poste, a guide to postal services through the known world from Milan to London or as far away as Goa, telling users how letters would travel via every post en route. Thus was the world connected. To make the system more efficient and profitable, the Taxis offered their service to new customers: secular and clerical authorities, merchant families, and private citizens. "In this way the dynastic transport service changed its character into a service company, accessible to everyone, with a defined scale of charges and regular traffic."13 The Taxis at first resisted using vehicles instead of swifter riders on horses, but beginning in the seventeenth century, other systems began to carry passengers in coaches, leading to a new industry and culture of travel. "The mobile classes had previously consisted mainly of mounted couriers and soldiers; to these were now added priests and state officials, artists hungry for education, scientists and scholars, and above all, merchants and traders," wrote Klaus Beyrer.14 Note well that as governments created postal monopolies, they also gained the powers of surveillance and censorship over what they carried. Centralization fosters control.
The news that traveled along these postal routes was handwritten, contained in letters and paid-for newsletters—called avvisi in Italian—destined for the powerful and rich. This news was a private good, creating advantage for officials and merchants. The first word of Columbus' return from his second voyage to the Americas was carried in an avviso from Milan to the Duke of Ferrara, telling of the arrival of bullion. The newsletters drew upon—that is, copied—each other's reports in what was an early news network, a forerunner to the wire service. News from Spanish America traveled through newsletters that were connected via Havana to Cartagena to Seville, Madrid to Rome, Venice to Lyon, Paris to Antwerp, and Cologne to Amsterdam and London.15 "The interlocking of information networks meant that public events in one part of Western Europe rapidly became public knowledge in all the others," said Paul Arblaster.16 Carrying these newsletters was not without risk. In 1575, a courier from Milan was shot to death in Florence because he was suspected of carrying the plague from the road. Said Sheila Barker, "shooting the messenger was not considered an irrational act during times of plague."17
Subscribers paid to stay ahead of competitors, buying news from correspondents who maintained contacts in courts and markets and compiled and copied reports from each other. The Medicis, who kept correspondents and couriers in their employ from the early 1500s, triangulated these reports across multiple providers to improve reliability.18 The tone of the avvisi was straightforward and cold, without adornment, commentary, opinion, or voice, as it was intended for a small, select, and sophisticated audience. "In order to keep handwritten news as news and preserve its political and social value, limitation of access to the network from the outside was fundamental," explained André Belo. "To publish information within a restricted audience was also to hide it from a wider audience."19 With printing, avvisi would cross the line from private to public.
Unlike avvisi, the news book was a public medium. These printed pamphlets were usually about one event from one author with sometimes serial but irregular frequency, often framed as letters from diplomats, soldiers, or merchants, with perspective assumed to be those of the establishment elite. Their raison d'être was to feed popular curiosity and a public market, so their tone was livelier than the sober avissi. They could cover anything: international politics, royal affairs, battles, disasters, miracles, crimes, church news, freakish births, witchcraft, the plague, weather, festivals, and sport (tournaments and bullfights in Spain). Some were written in verse; they often were recited in public.20 In England, if the topic had anything to do with the state, "the only kind of news fit to print was good news."21 In the late sixteenth century, another sort of news book was the Meßrelationen, a collection of documents and events from the prior months, with political commentary added, intended for sale at annual fairs.22
The news arrived as poetry, as song, as cheap and scandalous broadsheets, as official proclamations, as expensive handwritten newsletters, as published letters and reports, all coexisting in the Early Modern information ecosystem.

Then the news came as a newspaper. We return to Strasbourg—where a century and a half earlier Gutenberg may have started working on movable type—and to Johann Carolus, who was already selling subscriptions to handwritten avvisi. He bought a press and equipment from a printer's widow and in 1605 decided to combine the two vocations. In the time it took Carolus to handwrite a dozen or two copies of his newsletter, he could now print a hundred or more. After having already published twelve weekly editions, he petitioned the city council for a monopoly on his invention, the Relation aller Fürnemmen un gedenckwürdigen Historien (Collection of All Distinguished and Memorable News). The council refused; he proceeded anyway.
As opposed to news books, which covered one event, the newspaper brought together many unrelated events and updates. Johannes Weber defined four criteria for the newspaper: published, periodical, topical, universal. The business model was also new. "From the moment that a few hundred newspapers began to come into the market every week, thanks to the printing press, there was a dramatic fall in unit costs and qualitative change in the nature of the medium," Weber reported. "The expensive élitist news letter read only by the gentry was, as it were, silently superseded by a transmitter of news that was relatively cheap, available on the open market and accessible to a large number of readers. For the first time in history, the key features of a modern political medium had been achieved: the regular, general publishing of topical information."23
The newspaper was not the product of a flash and a finger snap but instead an evolution of forms that existed, taking advantage of the opportunities presented by the press and postal systems. Carolus was no journalist in any current sense. He provided updates from his correspondents "without any additions," he promised, "and not otherwise than in the manner in which it has been written and received." Said Weber: "A newspaper had done its duty by the truth if it reproduced incoming reports unaltered: it was not the job of the printer of the newspaper to check the truth of the reports' contents."24 Carolus' newspaper was a conduit, a platform. There were no headlines. There was no prioritization of the reports—no news judgment—as they were organized according to the chronology of their arrival, the latest set last. There was no commentary. The writing was anodyne. Early newspapers were expensive affairs, an annual subscription costing as much as a week's wages for a journeyman, and so they were still aimed at the educated, privileged, and powerful. Quality information existed only behind their paywall.
The idea and form of the newspaper spread quickly through Germany, following Carolus' format. The next newspaper—like some pioneers, this one was underwritten and as a result controlled by the local government—came in Wolfenbüttel in 1609, followed by Basel a year later, Frankfurt in 1615, Berlin in 1617, and Hamburg in 1618. That same year, a big news story intervened, namely the Defenestration of Prague, when Catholic regents were thrown out a window by Bohemian Protestants, surviving when they fell into a rubbish heap. That event ended the 1555 Peace of Augsburg (which had decreed that subjects would follow their ruler's choice of religion), setting into motion the outbreak of the Thirty Years' War—and creating the market for yet more newspapers. Most were weekly; some published two or three days a week. In 1650 the Leipzig Einkommende Zeitungen became a daily newspaper, printing each weekday. Pettegree counted about 200 titles in Germany by the end of the century with circulations of a few hundred to as many as 1,500, and he reckoned as many as seventy million copies were published, most of them still resembling Carolus' prototype.25
Carolus' business was a success, his newspaper published continuously from 1605 to at least 1667. Many of those who copied him were not so fortunate. "In the first fifty years of newspaper publishing failure was more common than success," said Jan Hillgärtner. "After 1650, innovative business models became a core feature of the newspaper world. The looming competition drove publishers to create new forms of reporting and create new ways of enriching the news by adding editorial content." Hamburg was a competitive market, which drove attempts to innovate, not all successful. Georg Greflinger sold his newspaper in book stalls and wanted it to be used in schools. He turned some news into poetry. Nicolaus Spieringk added fictitious dialogues between world rulers commenting on the news and bravely added opinion to the news.26 "The experiment did not catch on," Weber said, "and remained an avant-garde exception until the time of the French Revolution.... By and large, then, for the first hundred years of their existence the periodical newspapers were a medium of dry, serious and highly reliable reporting."27 Importantly, they also shied away from local news, likely because censorship by authorities would not have been far behind or because publishers feared offending subscribers and losing business.
The first newspaper outside of Germany was the Courante uyt Italian, Duytsland, &c. in Amsterdam, which took on a new format: two columns tall in a broadsheet. The Low Countries played host to other experiments, including a news periodical exhibiting the kind of splash that newspapers would eventually take on as their voice: Antwerp's Nieuwe Tijdinghen was "essentially a propaganda vehicle for the local Habsburg regime," said Pettegree, with "a torrent of wickedly committed, exultant reports of imperial victories and Protestant humiliations.... It was short, lively and easily digested." It was also illustrated, with woodcuts adorning its title page. A breeding ground for business innovation, the Low Countries saw the development of what would become the core support of newspapers—advertising—as well as local coverage in the form of paid notices posted by local governments.28 The first newspapers in English and French were published in Amsterdam—they were translated versions of German and Dutch papers intended for smuggled export—for England's Star Chamber forbade the importation of English-language print and local news and the French crown claimed control of news.
France, then, took another direction entirely with the founding in 1631 of the Gazette, a semi-official newspaper and monopoly published by Théophraste Renaudot under the thumb and license of Cardinal Richelieu.29 Its coverage of Richelieu reminds one of nothing more than what Donald Trump expected of Fox News:

His Eminence's unequalled eloquence, and the perfect knowledge he has of his material made this discourse so easy for him, that he spoke for nearly an hour. During which time one had never seen such attention, with the eyes of the entire assembly fixed upon him, their ears set upon every word, and their bodies immobile, these were certain signs: as their unanimous applause was so far from any suspicion of flattery, it was their state of rapture which made him so able to gain the hearts of the entire audience.30

Renaudot franchised his text to printers in thirty locations so they would duplicate his coverage, giving the twenty million citizens of France but one newspaper. In the Gazette, explained Jeremy Popkin, the "French king appeared not as a political figure but as the symbolic center of the country's existence." La presse c'est moi. "The purpose of this kind of journalism was not to make the king's actions rationally comprehensible but simply to render them visible."31 The French monopoly on news and the regime's control of it, as with its control of books, continued to open up business opportunities across the border in the Low Countries. During the reign of Louis XIV, a dozen French-language papers were started there. One of them, the Gazette de Leyde, published in Leyden from 1677 to 1811, would become Europe's paper of record.
In England, newspapers experienced a fitful start, licensed as a monopoly by Charles I, then banned by him, then "he restored them just in time (1638) for them to be a pillar of the opposition gathering against him," leading to his overthrow and execution in 1649, Pettegree noted. As with the Thirty Years' War on the Continent, the Civil Wars in England "marked a long-delayed coming of age for the printing industry" and then the newspaper. During the ongoing troubles, more than 300 serial publications were founded, most lasting only an issue. One reason for that, Pettegree explained, was that "news serials, with the address of the seller prominently displayed, were sitting ducks for retribution. Pamphlets, on the other hand, could be published anonymously, and increasing numbers were."32 News pamphlets had many advantages in the telling of events. Unlike the cold dispatches that made up newspapers, pamphlets told stories: "Observing the usual narrative conventions of a book, news pamphlets had an introduction, a descriptive middle and drew conclusions at the end," Pettegree said. "They explained context and outlined consequences. Usually they offered a moral: that ill deeds were punished and that virtuous rulers triumphed."33
Like France, England tried to establish newspapers as a monopoly of the crown. In 1663, Roger L'Estrange, as official surveyor of the press, had the power to authorize all printed books; he also received a license to print the Intelligencer. L'Estrange lost the privilege to an under-secretary of state, Joseph Williamson, whose Gazette was edited inside the halls of government by civil servants, postmasters, and customs officials. It was England's only newspaper for fourteen years. Parliament by then forbade the publishing of its votes and so the Gazette stuck mainly to foreign dispatches. The Licensing Act gave the Gazette its on-and-off monopoly until 1695, when the law lapsed and new newspapers sprouted in London, growing in number to nine by 1704 and eighteen five years later, soon selling 70,000 copies a week, six times the circulation of the French Gazette in a country less than a third the size. Regulation reared its head once more with the Stamp Act of 1712, which stayed in effect until 1855.34
Newspapers coexisted in the news ecosystem with handwritten newsletters, printed news pamphlets, broadsides, and news ballads, and in hindsight it was not obvious which form would prevail. Comment on the day's happenings—and on newspapers—also came from the stage, where Ben Jonson's 1626 play A Staple of News satirized the news business and its "credulous purchasers." Pettegree would remind us that Johnson was a representative of established media and newspapers were intruders on his turf of sophisticated commentary on events. Thus, "many regarded the newspapers as a fad, and a retrograde step for news publication."35
Newspapers for so long shied away from controversy and offense that their skittishness opened the door for the invention of another form of news media: the journal, a forerunner of the magazine, presenting authorities on science and culture, with voice, criticism, and judgment—that is, opinion. These included The Tatler and The Spectator from Richard Steele and Joseph Addison; they represented a high end of the media market, newspapers increasingly the low. "The assumption that a newspaper writer was little more than a paid agent of politicians ensured that 'journalist' would be a term of opprobrium well into the nineteenth century," Pettegree said. "Writing for the newspapers was not considered a respectable occupation. Probably greatly to their advantage, it was thought mildly degrading to fight a duel against a newspaper man."36

The first newspaper came to British North America more than half a century after the arrival of the first press. In 1690, Benjamin Harris published the only edition of Publick Occurrences, Both Foreign and Domestic. Harris had escaped London, where he had been jailed for unlicensed publishing, and found his Boston newspaper banned after he criticized British military policy regarding Native Americans. Fourteen years later, John Campbell, a postmaster and, like Carolus, a seller of a handwritten newsletter, began publishing The Boston News-Letter, with much content digested from London newspapers. "Bland and unimaginative, this was the initial model for newspapers in the colonies," wrote Paul Starr.37 Competition arrived in Boston in 1719 with The Boston Gazette, and controversy followed in 1721 in the person of James Franklin with his New-England Courant, which dismissed Campbell's News-Letter as "a dull vehicle of intelligence." In retort, Campbell labeled Franklin's Courant "vile and abominable."38 The Courant carried little news, giving its space over to essays, some of which attacked and mocked Cotton Mather for his proposal to inoculate the population against smallpox, a procedure taught him by a man he enslaved, Onesimus. After much complaint about the Courant, Franklin erased his name as publisher, substituting it with that of his younger brother, Benjamin, who had been apprenticed to James, learned the trade from him, then escaped his abuse.
Benjamin Franklin wended his way to Philadelphia via New York and became a printer of books, bureaucratic forms, handbills, and currency; a publisher of books, almanacs, pamphlets, newspapers, and a magazine; a bookseller; a bookbinder; a wholesaler of paper and the rags needed to make it; and an investor, setting up other printers in business. After he began printing, he had the idea of starting a newspaper to challenge Philadelphia postmaster Andrew Bradford's American Weekly Mercury. He made the mistake of telling George Webb, a young Oxford scholar whom Franklin had trained in the trade when they worked together in the printing shop owned by Samuel Keimer. Webb told Keimer of Franklin's plans and Keimer beat him to the punch, publishing his own newspaper on Christmas Eve, 1728. Keimer, a second-rate printer, failed at the enterprise, gaining no more than ninety subscribers, according to Franklin. Less than a year later, Franklin purchased The Pennsylvania Gazette, improving it with more local news and advertisements and running it alone and in partnership until 1766. The newspaper eventually reached more than 2,500 subscribers and became the most widely read in the colonies.39
Franklin set a tone—both linguistic and normative—that would be followed by American newspapers for generations to come. He believed it was his job to air various perspectives in a debate and he held faith the truth would out. When in 1731 Franklin had had his fill with "being frequently censur'd and condemn'd by different Persons for printing Things which they say ought not to be printed," he wrote an "Apology for Printers," which was nothing of the sort.

I request all who are angry with me on the Account of printing things they don't like, calmly to consider these following Particulars
1.	That the Opinions of Men are almost as various as their Faces; an Observation general enough to become a common Proverb, So many Men so many Minds.
2.That the Business of Printing has chiefly to do with Mens Opinions; most things that are printed tending to promote some, or oppose others... .
4.	That it is as unreasonable in any one Man or Set of Men to expect to be pleas'd with every thing that is printed, as to think that nobody ought to be pleas'd but themselves.
5.	Printers are educated in the Belief, that when Men differ in Opinion, both Sides ought equally to have the Advantage of being heard by the Publick; and that when Truth and Error have fair Play, the former is always an overmatch for the latter... .
I consider the Variety of Humours among Men, and despair of pleasing every Body; yet I shall not therefore leave off Printing. I shall continue my Business. I shall not burn my Press and melt my Letters.40

Franklin, like Luther, understood the conversational nature of the press, valuing the interplay of ideas, with printer as host or platform. He was not neutral; there were things he chose not to publish on behalf of customers and advertisers and there were things he chose to print himself, as editor. "His editorial policy was to exclude 'all Libelling and Personal Abuse,' " wrote J.A. Leo Lemay, who said Franklin was a crusading reformer, reporting on "Poverty, Wretchedness, Misery, and Want" among the Irish; reprinting pieces on horrid conditions in English jails; railing against English and American libels laws restricting irreligious writing; and exposing environmental dangers brought by tanners in the city. He published the first political cartoon in a newspaper: the famous snake sliced into eight colonial parts under the headline "Join or Die."41 (As I will explore in greater detail later, Franklin also published advertisements for and profited from the slave trade.) As the American Revolution approached and after Franklin had retired from newspapering, publishers cast off the staid neutrality of their European forebears and took on liberty—at least for some—as their cause.
Publishing a newspaper had another purpose, a not-so-hidden agenda: Franklin used and honored the language of the American people. "Franklin's journalism was, I believe, a manifestation of his egalitarian American aesthetic, manifested not only in his writing style and political beliefs but also in his creation of cartoons, emblems, and devices," Lemay said.42 In 1922, Talcott Williams, the first director of the Columbia School of Journalism, declared that Franklin had saved Americans from "wandering in a desert of polyglottic dignity," and from the effete English of Samuel Johnson. "In the lists of public opinion, the style of Franklin was pitted against the style of Johnson. He was the inventor of newspaper English, direct, immediate, knowing humor as well as argument, using the speech of the people," Williams lectured his students. "But more than any other man, Franklin, the newspaperman, saved us from a separation and divorce of the English of the people and the English of the writer. The temptation was to make the prose of the eighteenth century a standard. Instead, the current of the talk of the many and the diction of the writer merged. The new words and phrases, the changes in the details of speech, slang, and the imagery of our American speech, all these, through the newspapers, found their way into print and acceptance."43 On the other hand, in 1801, a decade after the great man's death, critic Joseph Dennie railed against Franklin's language. "He was the founder of that Grub-street sect, who have professedly attempted to degrade literature to the level of vulgar capacities, and debase the polished and current language of books by the vile allow of provincial idioms, and colloquial barbarism, and the shame of grammar, and akin to any language, rather than English."44
Franklin in 1768 proposed nothing less than a new alphabet. He rejected c, w, y, and j as superfluous to logical spelling and had six characters that he invented cast by a typefounder to account for sounds such as sh and th. He tried out his new alphabet in a letter to a London lady who replied she could "si meni inkanviiniensis."45 Noah Webster shared Franklin's passion for a uniquely American English. He dedicated his Dissertations on the English Language to Franklin, and in his Collection of Essays and Fugitiv Writings he wrote: "In the essays, ritten within the last yeer, a considerable change in spelling iz introduced by way of experiment." Webster did succeed in making many emendations to Johnson's English, such as removing extraneous letters—furore to furor, musick to music, terrour to terror—and transposing re, as in meter and theater.46 Webster saw English as a patriotic cause, for "as an independent nation, our honor requires us to have a system of our own, in language as well as government." Jonathon Green observed that "as a citizen of a new nation which based its society on a written Constitution, Webster could not fail to appreciate the overriding importance of words."47
Franklin and Webster shared another arguably quixotic passion: founding magazines, where the voice and culture of America could be better represented and molded. Both were admirers of England's Gentleman's Magazine (where Johnson wrote) and took it as inspiration. Both failed as magazine publishers, but the magazine as a form grew from only twenty-three titles founded before the end of the Revolutionary War to almost 3,000 in the quarter century after 1825. Magazines became a means of organizing communities, as political parties, religious denominations, benevolent societies, schools of medicine, and abolitionist movements published periodicals of their own. There were magazines for women and for children, for Native Americans and for African Americans. "In this process," wrote Heather Haveman, "magazines serve as modernizing forces: people can be bound into a single nationwide community by reading the same magazines and being aware that others are doing so."48 Benedict Anderson said that print provided "a new way of linking fraternity, power and time meaningfully together. Nothing perhaps more precipitated this search, nor made it more fruitful, than print-capitalism, which made it possible for rapidly growing numbers of people to think about themselves, and to relate themselves to others, in profoundly new ways."49

When the history of printing is written and rewritten, it is the book that historians focus on. What is overlooked as ephemera—pamphlets, printed newsletters, broadsides, newspapers, magazines: in sum, news—is perhaps a greater innovation than the adaptation of the book from scribe to press. "One reason why the rise of the newspaper was generally not considered as a 'media revolution' was the fact that no technical innovation was linked with it," argued Frank Bösch.50 True enough. As I hope I've demonstrated, the newspaper was born not of a single idea but an evolution of forms, from what Werner Faulstich called Menschmedien (human media: couriers, preachers, singers, town criers, storytellers),51 to printed pamphlets and broadsides, to newspapers by way of handwritten newsletters, and on to magazines. Said Pettegree: "It would be well over a hundred years from the foundation of the first newspaper before it became an everyday part of life—and only at the end of the eighteenth century would the newspaper become a major agent of opinion-forming."52
What made news new? What impact did it have had on society? What presumptions did it spawn in citizens? There is its sense of the local. Early newspapers and newsletters concentrated on news elsewhere, as news from "here" would be too perilous to print. In doing so, news created a sense of "here" versus "there." Printing, books, and the standardization of language are often credited with, or blamed for, a rising sense of nationalism; newspapers deserve to be included in that indictment. Did newspapers help create a sense of community, a sense of the public? I think so. By their existence, they said that worldly matters were worthy of individual consideration and of society's discussion and deliberation. Habermas gave credit to the coffeehouse as the forum in which news was read and discussed in the rational and critical debate that he called the foundation of the public sphere. I believe the public's sense of itself came earlier, from at least the moment when Luther spoke to the public and considered them worth persuading in their own tongue. As media advanced, one could gather with like-minded folk in more nuanced definitions of one's communities, as when magazines were founded to serve women, abolitionists, or Presbyterians. Media, especially news media, became a way to join together.
Then there is print's sense of time. "The printing press is nothing less than a time-machine, easily as potent and as curious as any one of Mr. H.G. Wells's contraptions," wrote media theorist Neil Postman. "Like the mechanical clock, which was also a great time-machine, the printing press captures, domesticates, and transforms time, and in the process alters humanity's consciousness of itself. But whereas the clock, as Lewis Mumford contends, eliminated Eternity as the measure and focus of human actions, the printing press restored it. Printing links the present with forever."53 The newspaper reversed that clock, emphasizing the current and the new, turning today into fishwrap tomorrow, as if eternity couldn't give a damn about yesterday. Books preserve; newspapers soon forget. The form creates an addiction to the latest. In the current era of wars and pandemics, of twenty-four-hour cable news and bottomless pages on screens, we are accused of "doomscrolling." Newspapers were accused of abetting similar pathology in World War I, when Walter Shaw Sparrow wrote in Saturday Review that "a cruel eagerness for news tortured everybody," while G.M. Newcombe, a minister, noted that everyone "was interested in the great crisis, but excessive newspaper reading had a tendency to throw some people off their balance." The periodicity of news, its never-ending contemporaneity, creates a yawning hunger for content to fill it. In Franklin's day, when the ships didn't arrive with news in winter, newspaper publishers would throw poetry or humor into the hole. Come the telegraph, publishers never ran short of that which was allegedly important.
The newspaper as a form exhibits great, global vanity: It is the container for the world. Everything you need to know. All the news that's fit to print. Democracy dies without it. On first glance, that sounds appealing: somebody organized the world for me, for that is what publications and their editors promise. But in fact, what a newspaper delivers is a numbing disorder, a mess of miscellany. The first newspapers lacked hierarchy—the first things to arrive in the office were printed on the front and back pages, the latest things in the middle54—though editors starting with Noah Webster made some attempt at organization and prioritization, at what his journalistic descendants would call "news judgment." Marshall McLuhan argued that the form of the newspaper—its "all-at-onceness" versus the "one-at-a-timeness" of the book, as W. Terrence Gordon put it—would affect citizens' cognition of their world. McLuhan said modern newspapers were a mosaic and "as frantic as a surrealist art exhibition."55 In my favorite footnote anywhere, Benedict Anderson said that "reading a newspaper is like reading a novel whose author has abandoned any thought of a coherent plot."56 The newspaper contends it brings order to the whole but instead makes a frantic mess of the world, and that is good for the newspaper: It is the solution to the problem it presents; it promises to organize the world it jumbled.







12
Print Evolves: Until 1800
From 1450 until 1800 the technology of printing changed barely at all, and then changed mostly thanks to developments in other technologies. Again, we cannot know exactly how Gutenberg, Fust, and Schöffer cast type and operated their presses, but given that the printers who followed them ended up printing in substantially uniform manner with no reports of hallelujah! innovations, it would seem that printing as a craft and industry remained all but static for three and a half centuries. That is not to say that the book did not materially change. New genres of text were created, as we've just seen, and the products of the press progressed as well.
Short of collecting rare books or being permitted access to a bibliographer's vault, one wonderful way to witness the progression of the early book firsthand—if virtually—is to visit the online site of the University of St Andrews' Universal Short Title Catalogue, directed by the book historian I quote often, Andrew Pettegree. The USTC (at ustc.ac.uk) lists every known item printed between 1450 and 1650—and soon 1700—whether it still exists or not; many publications were, as Pettegree has put it, "used to death." The catalogue provides a directory of library holdings and, if there is one, a link to an online facsimile. Pick an early decade and then a later one and browse through digital copies, looking for the differences: the evolution of the title page, page numbering, illustration, typographic style, and so on.1
A first major innovation in the printed book was the invention of the title page. "Most studies of printing have, quite rightly, singled out the regular provision of title pages as the most significant new feature associated with the printed book format," said Elizabeth Eisenstein.2 In his First Principles of Typography, Stanley Morison went the extra mile and proclaimed: "The history of printing is in large measure the history of the title-page."3 The invention of the title page first required the invention of the title. From the Great Library of Alexandria on, books were often catalogued according to their first words of text, the incipit (meaning "starts" in Latin). "Once reproduction is mechanized," explained Whitney Trettien, a book historian, "there begin to appear multiple near-identical tokens of a given text.... The sheer proliferation of copies of texts seems to necessitate a shorter, more convenient label. That is, it urges on the shift from a textual ecology steeped in narrative—beginnings, openings, texts as unfolding in time—to one of metadata."4 A book needed a title to stand unique among other books. A title gave it an address.
Manuscript books carried data about themselves in colophons, which scribes placed at the end of books, recording their names and often the dates and places of completion. Fust and Schöffer carried over the colophon to the printed book, using that space to boast about the invention of printing; many printers added their trademarks—called devices—here. A few early books also added titles at the end, but that did not catch on.5 Neither did the title page at first. Schöffer is credited with producing the first printed title page, on a papal bull, but he then dropped the practice. In The Bookseller of Florence, Ross King reported that his subject, Vespasiano da Bisticci, experimented with title pages in scribal manuscripts.6 In any case, title pages took time to become standard.
In her book about nothing but title pages, Margaret Smith theorized a progression from blank page to simple title to decorative title page, in sync with a progression of requirements, from protection to identification to promotion of the book. Recall that early printed books were customarily not bound by their printers. Unbound books could spend time in barrels (without their covers made of wood, cloth, leather, and paper, which would add weight) as they were transported from printers' warehouses to booksellers' shops to bookbinders' workrooms. So, to avoid soiling the first printed page, the printer's imposition was rearranged to begin with a blank leaf. Because these unbound books had to be found among large stocks of similar-looking books, a simple title was added to that first page, for identification. Then ornamentation was added to the title, likely to help sell the book. Joseph Dane said extra copies of title pages may have been printed to be distributed as advertisements.7 The market demanded an attractive cover before the book was bound. Thus bibliographer W.G. Hellinga took Stanley Morison's proclamation about the history of the book and title page one step farther, declaring: "The history of the title-page, therefore, in large measure reflects the history of the distribution of the book."8 Title pages brought information from the colophon forward, adding more data: printer, place, date, sometimes where to buy the book, and now an important feature: an author's name.
By the end of the fifteenth century and the incunabular period, title pages were used frequently and began to carry intricate and often beautiful borders and designs. Martin Luther's friend Lucas Cranach brought innovation to the title page, creating a decorative wood-cut frame with space in the middle for type to be inserted for successive publications—establishing a recognizable style, thus brand, for Luther and his works. "It was a major and decisive breakthrough in the history of the book, never before applied to texts of this type," declared Pettegree in Brand Luther.9 For centuries, title pages remained beloved of printers and publishers—a chance for them to display their taste and quality. "A title-page has been aptly said to resemble the entrance of a building," said an essay in The New Monthly Magazine and Literary Journal in 1821, "the fashion and workmanship of which are the indexes to the style of the interior, and upon whose godly or ungracious aspect, accordingly, depends whether or not the stranger will incline to busy himself with an inquiry into what may be seen within."10
A next great advance in textual metadata was the page number. Scribal books' pages were rarely numbered, and even if they had been, every version of a book from a different scribe's hand would have flowed inconsistently, version-to-version, page-to-page, making it impossible to cite a given line on a given page across all scribes' editions. Some theorize that early scribes might have been discouraged from numbering pages while cumbersome Roman numerals were still the norm.11 Other mechanisms of splitting text into identifiable parts were created, however. Stephen Langton, later the Archbishop of Canterbury, separated books of the Bible into chapters while teaching in Paris in 1204. "As students completed their studies and returned to their home countries," wrote Dennis Duncan, "Langton's system spread across the continent. Its ubiquity was further ensured a couple of decades later when the Parisian scriptoria, the copyshops—the publishing houses of their day—began to incorporate it into the bibles they produced in huge numbers."12 With chapters came tables of contents, but still no page numbers.
Printers adapted techniques used by scribes to keep printed pages in order so they could be compiled and bound properly. Sheets with printed pages were gathered and folded once or twice or more, depending on the size of the book, into signatures, which were then bound into the book. These signatures were labeled on their first pages so they could be collated in the proper order; such labels are also called signatures. Printers often added catchwords to the bottom of pages, repeating the words to be found at the start of the next page, to help binders and compositors.
Then, at last, came page numbers. The first book known to receive page numbers was a printed sermon published in Cologne in 1470.13 The first Bible with numerals on each page was Erasmus' New Testament printed by Froben in 1516.14 "The numbering of pages seems to us an obvious and indispensable aid to the reader," said S.H. Steinberg. "Its primary purpose, however, was a help to the binder."15 Page numbering did not become an immediate standard; by 1500 only a tenth of books used them, Margaret Smith said, rising to eighty to ninety percent by the end of that century.16 Importantly, once page numbers existed in identical copies of a book, then any specific page, quotation, thought, or fact could be cited because it now had an address, creating the opportunity to link one idea in one book to another. To cite was to converse.
Once page numbers existed, it was possible to build a usable index. "An index is a tool of two ordering systems, a conversion table between the alphabetical order of its entries and the sequential order of the pages," Duncan explained in his wittily titled tome, Index: A History of the. There were indexes17 of a sort before there were page numbers or printing. In 1230, the Dominican friars of St. Jacques created a concordance of the Bible, counting and gathering each use of every word in it: 10,000 alphabetized terms. To send readers to any instance of a word, they took advantage of chapters, separating them into seven equal parts, a to g.18 (Verse numbers were added in a version of the Bible published by Catholic-turned-Protestant, French-turned-Swiss printer Robert Estienne in 1551.) As Duncan has observed, concordances allowed readers to find words but not ideas.
"Title pages reveal that indexes were a major selling point with sixteenth-century buyers," said Ann Blair. "In the Middle Ages indexes were few in number and generally separate from the works they indexed."19 That is, they were sold separately. Peter Schöffer, ever the innovator, printed the first index—pointing to numbered paragraphs rather than numbered pages in St. Augustine's On Christian Doctrine—and boasted about the feature in a catalogue of his books: "with a noteworthy table of great use for preachers." Aldus Manutius included a do-it-yourself index without page numbers, instructing buyers: "Mark the book with a number in the corner of each leaf."20 Every index is DIY in the sense that readers need to know what they're looking for, anticipating the minds of the author and indexer. In 1565, Theodor Zwinger beseeched users of his alphabetical index of headings: "If things do not occur under one heading, look for them under a synonym. Thus glory and honor, wealth and riches, magistrate and prince, guile and fraud and cunning and shrewdness."21 We would wait centuries for Google to ask: "Did you mean?" The Adages of Erasmus ended up with multiple indexes, said Blair: an alphabetical listing of the adages, another to the common headings, another to the authors cited, and one to "things worthy of note not contained in the first index."22 When I want to remind myself of such anecdotes from Blair's Too Much to Know, I thankfully need only consult her one index, which lists 52 entries under "Indexes and indexing."23
The progression of the structure of the book was in some measure an effort to turn a vast and exploding morass of words and information into an addressable universe. Titles gave books an address in printers' catalogues, booksellers' shelves, and in libraries, eventually with card catalogues using the Dewey Decimal System. Pages received addresses when they were numbered. Chapters were given addresses inside tables of content. People, places, and ideas in text had page numbers as addresses, and indexes provided a map to them. Herein lies the key insight of Sir Tim Berners-Lee when he invented the worldwide web around a system of uniform resource identifiers (URIs) and locators (URLs) to give every page online and every element in it an address so any machine on the network could find it. These systems of address made the book and the internet immensely more useful.
Eisenstein cautioned that print did not order the human mind but rather fed a long-held desire for ordering. She quoted C.S. Lewis contending that medieval man "was an organizer, a codifier, a builder of systems. He wanted a place for everything and everything in the right place.... Of all our modern inventions, I suspect that they would most have admired the card index." Eisenstein maintained that these structural innovations in the book affected not only specific institutions and professions—like the law (which could now benefit from the collection, printing, cataloguing, and indexing of statutes and proclamations)—but society at large: "Increasing familiarity with regularly numbered pages, punctuation marks, section breaks, running heads, indices, and so forth helped to reorder the thought of all readers, whatever their profession or craft. Hence countless activities were subjected to a new 'esprit de systeme.' The use of Arabic numbers for pagination suggests how the most inconspicuous innovation could have weighty consequences—in this case, more accurate indexing, annotation, cross-referencing resulted."24
Now, on the web, we lose page numbers as we lose the sequential nature of content. Instead of turning pages, we click and browse among them, each of us taking distinct paths. Google will find anything. Addresses meant for human use—page numbers, chapter titles, tables of content, indexes—are replaced by addresses meant for computers: invisible metadata. Will this affect our cognition of our world? Will it make us less or more likely to expect order, more or less linear or circular in our thinking? It is far too soon to diagnose.







13
Aesthetics of Print
William Ivins, curator of prints at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, all but dismissed the invention of movable type as "no more than a way of making very old and familiar things more cheaply.... The printing of pictures, however, unlike the printing of words from movable types, brought a completely new thing into existence." The printed image, he declared, "had incalculable effects upon knowledge and thought, upon science and technology, of every kind. It is hardly too much to say that since the invention of writing there has been no more important invention than that of the exactly repeatable pictorial statement."1
Books as well as prints, broadsides, pamphlets, and newspapers were filled with renderings of events, anatomical drawings, images of plants from around the world, details of machines' workings, portraits of the noteworthy and of authors, maps of Earth and heavens, drawings of places far away, satirical and political cartoons. "Major 'public works,' once published, became tourist attractions, which vied with old pilgrimage sites and Roman ruins," said Eisenstein. "In the hands of skillful artists, the somewhat prosaic functions of levers, pulleys, gears and screws were dramatized; engineering feats were illustrated in the same heroic vein as epic poems." Some illustrations were bad copies of bad illustrations in manuscripts—"the new medium perpetuated and indeed multiplied the defects inherent in the old," Eisenstein warned.2 With amusing frequency, printers recycled portraits of people and places to represent entirely different people and landscapes, even in the same book; in 1493's Nuremberg Chronicle "one view does duty for no less than eleven separate towns," according to Ivins' count.3 And many images were simply fanciful; see the portraits of Gutenberg himself.
Scribal manuscripts had long been illustrated by illuminators who painted elaborate initials. And, of course, block printing of images long preceded printing with type. But now, illustration existed less to decorate and more to add to the informational value of print. In 1485, Peter Schöffer published a first botanical guide, Gart der Gesundheit (Garden of Health). Its unnamed author commissioned an experienced painter "of understanding and with a subtle and practised hand" to travel together to the Holy Land to capture images of exotic—to a German—plants.4 "Accordingly," said Eisenstein, "a new kind of secular pilgrimage was organized (aptly described by Ivins as the first scientific expedition to be recorded in print and illustrated)."5 Said George Sarton: "The printed image was the savior" of science.6 Eisenstein cautioned that we should not give illustration too much credit in the Scientific Revolution: "In my view, it is an exaggeration to launch modern science with the advent of perspective renderings and to regard pictorial statements as sufficient in themselves."7
A year after Schöffer's botanicals came the similarly collaborative Peregrinatio in Terram Sanctam (A Pilgrimage to the Holy Land), the first printed travel book, written by Bernhard von Breydenbach, a canon of the Mainz Cathedral, who traveled to Venice, Corfu, Rhodes, Jerusalem, Bethlehem, and Cairo with a knight, a cook, and his printer, Erhard Reuwich, who also drew panoramic, multi-page views of Venice and the Holy Land and of native animals (some native only to Reuwich's imagination). Through illustrations, readers could place themselves in the world: I live here; this is what there looks like. I dress like this; they look like that. That is what the emperor looks like. Here is what my innards look like. Just as Luther helped mold the idea of a public by addressing them, so did illustrations help create a sense of one's place in one's community and the world by providing contrast with others'.
Most early illustration was cut in wood. With woodcuts, as with lead type, the surface to be inked and printed stands above, in relief. Then came intaglio engraving, in which the image is engraved down into a metal plate, usually of copper. Ink is spread over the entire plate and then wiped away from the surface so that ink remains only in the engraved indentations. A heavy roller pushes paper onto the plate and into the grooves to transfer the ink. The advantages of engraving are that metal plates are more durable than wood and that images can be much more detailed; the indentations holding ink can vary in depth, in a sense adding another dimension for the artist to work with. Intaglio engraving predated Gutenberg's Bible by as long as three decades.8 Book printers made attempts to combine the methods, inserting engravings in some incunabula, but this required a different sort of press, thus prints needed to be separately printed and then bound into books. It took time for the method to become widespread. Etching, invented in the early sixteenth century in Augsburg, is another form of engraving, with indentations in metal made by acid. The artist covers an entire plate with a waxy, acid-resisting substance, then scrapes away that substance to selectively expose metal, which is dug out in an acid bath, a process that can be repeated to dig deeper and darker lines. This was a method used by Rembrandt.9
Toward the end of the eighteenth century, just as a flurry of innovation in printing was to be unleashed, Alois Senefelder invented another method of publishing illustration: lithography, or printing from stone. Senefelder was enamored of the theater but not of printers, who were slow getting his scripts typeset. " 'Thus,' thought I, 'I can print my productions myself and so alternate healthfully between mental and physical activities,' " Senefelder wrote in an autobiography of his invention that also included a textbook for it, recounting every permutation of experimentation before success (just the sort of document we can only wish Gutenberg had left us). "I could hear a decent living, too," he dreamed, "and thus become an independent man." As with many creators online today in their newsletters, blogs, or videos, Senefelder wanted a mechanism to make his own media, not at scale but to satisfy his limited needs and audience. "If I had possessed the necessary money, I would have bought types, a press and paper, and printing on stone probably would not have been invented so soon. The lack of funds, however, forced me to other expedients."
He experimented with banging steel letters into pear wood to create typeset woodblocks but gave up on that. "Then it struck me that if I had only enough types to set one column or folio, I could press this into a soft material, transfer the impression to a board covered with soft sealing-wax, and reproduce the relief plate thus obtained in stereotype form." He soon was embedding impressions in a dried dough of clay, sand, flour, and coal dust. This was too expensive. Next he planned to etch letters onto a copper plate, but this was difficult and made it impossible to correct errors. He tried other means of etching involving materials from fats to soap to turpentine and wine. He experimented with copper and zinc as plates. Then he tried stone. It wasn't an immediate breakthrough, for he had yet to come upon his real invention: printing not by mechanical processes—relief or engraved pressure—but by chemistry.10
Credit Senefelder's mother with inspiring his eureka! She asked him to write down a laundry list, but he'd gone through all the paper in the house with his printing experiments, so he used his preparation of wax, soap, and lampblack to write on a stone. As he was about to wash the writing off the stone, he wondered whether he could etch around the writing and print from it. He could, but imperfectly. "I do not exaggerate when I declare that this matter cost me several thousand experiments," he lamented. "And at the same time through these investigations I discovered the chemical printing on stone of to-day."11 Eventually Senefelder realized that he didn't need to etch away the stone. Instead, he used a fatty substance—crayon—to draw on the stone. The crayon attracts ink. The stone is wetted down and where there is no crayon, water repels ink. Paper put on this flat surface and pressed comes away with an image from where the ink adhered. This process of lithography would be a forerunner to laser and ink-jet printing, which operate on attraction and repellence, though electrical rather than chemical.

The aesthetic and artistry of typography and its improvement played an essential role in the progress of printing, making text more readable, usable, pleasant, and beautiful. As it happens, the history of typography is filled with eccentric characters and odd tales.
In the first centuries of print's history, European typography split roughly in two worlds: gothic and roman. Gutenberg's black-letter type mimicked not only scribal handwriting but also the architecture of gothic cathedrals: dark, bold, thick, and decorated, as if built of stone. (Note that those typefaces in the German context are called gothic, while in English, gothic is often used to label austere, modern letters without serifs, such as Helvetica. Here I use gothic in the ornate, German sense.) The typeface Fraktur was a primary variant of German gothic; others included Schwabacher, Textura, and Rotunda. This style remained a national cultural and political identifier in German-speaking lands until midway into World War II. Therein lies a story.
After decades of heated debate, the German Reichstag in 1911 voted Fraktur the official typeface of the nation, defeating the somewhat more readable and rounded Antiqua, as a matter of nationalism over internationalism. By 1928 more than half of German books and periodicals were printed in Fraktur.12 Adolf Hitler required its use even though he didn't much like it, complaining to the Reichstag in 1934 that it "does not fit well in this age of steel and iron, glass and concrete, of womanly beauty and manly strength, of head raised high and intention defiant."13
Modernism, represented by the Bauhaus, would inspire Die neue Typographie (The New Typography) a book by Jan Tschichold, who lobbied against ornamentation—serifs—and in favor of a single, standard typeface, saying, "These objects, designed without reference to the aesthetics of the past, have been created by a new kind of man: the engineer!" He condemned Fraktur: "The emphatically national, exclusivist character of Fraktur ... contradicts present-day transnational bonds between people and forces their inevitable elimination."14 This was a dangerous view. As Tschichold wrote later of the typographical school he began: "In Germany, where it would soon have died a natural death anyway, the movement was strangled in 1933."15 He recalled: "A few years after Die neue Typographie, Hitler came. I was accused of creating 'un-German' typography and art, and so I preferred to leave Germany." That was an understatement. The Gestapo raided Tschichold's Munich home while he was away, finding "incriminating collages by Russian constructivists," according to a Guardian article. Authorities confiscated all copies of his book from his publisher and ruled that a publication of Tschichold's "exhibits a subversive tendency incompatible with the aspirations of the nationalist-socialist state." Tschichold and his wife were arrested; he was imprisoned for six weeks—over his typography. With a policeman's help he obtained a passport and they moved to Switzerland.16
Meanwhile, in Berlin, Hitler changed his mind. Realizing that Fraktur was too German and to many quite unreadable and thus incompatible with world domination, Nazi Germany reversed course in 1941 when Martin Bormann issued an order labeling Fraktur, without basis, "Jew-letters."17 As print historian Albert Kapr interpreted the move: "Were stupidity or race hatred the motives for this measure? The most important reason for discarding the national form in printing policy was to enable the military orders of the occupying German forces—which had at this time subjugated half of Europe—to be read by the oppressed nations."18 Joseph Goebbels celebrated the change: "And our language can truly become a world language."19
Moving to London, Tschichold went on to take charge of the design of Penguin Books—and to renounce Die neue Typographie. "I detected most shocking parallels between the teachings of Die neue Typographie and National Socialism and Fascism"—that is, a "ruthless restriction of type faces" and "the more or less militaristic arrangement of lines."20
In this episode, we witness not only the remarkable politicization of typography but also a struggle for print's humanistic vs. mechanistic soul. "Typography should be allowed individuality; this is to appear as different as the people around us, just as there are girls and men, fat and thin, wise and stupid, serious and gay, easily-pleased and fussy," Tschichold said in his recantation. "The aim of typography must not be expression, least of all self-expression, but perfect communication achieved by skill.... Typography is a servant and nothing more." In the 1960s, he designed a typeface for a consortium of German type houses called Sabon, popular still with book publishers. It has serifs.21
The other road taken in the progress of typography led away from German gothic to Italy and roman typefaces. Gutenberg and other early printers had already begun to round the sharp edges of their first designs. But it was Nicolas Jenson who forged a bold new design with his roman typeface, bringing together the lower-case of the Carolingian miniscule commissioned for scribes by Charlemagne with the capitals chiseled in stone on tombs and monuments in ancient Rome—such as those engraved on Trajan's Column, completed in AD 113; they are magisterial, elegant, balanced, and authoritative, with curves triumphing over angles.22 Jenson, master of the French Royal Mint, had been dispatched to Mainz in 1458, and after three years appeared in Venice in 1468, where he designed what is my most beloved typeface, his namesake.
Renowned publisher and typographer Daniel Berkeley Updike attempted to explain the appeal of Jenson: "The characteristics of Jenson's font were its readability, its mellowness of form, and the evenness of colour in mass. Analyzed closely, his letter-forms were not very perfect; had they been so, their effect would not have been so good; for, as an authority has said, 'a type too ideal in its perfection is not an ideal type.' " Exactly. Jenson is patently human. "The eye becomes tired when each character is absolutely perfect. Thus the good effect of the type in mass depends somewhat upon the variations in, and consequent 'movement' of, its integral parts. Jenson's roman types have been the accepted models for roman letters ever since he made them, and, repeatedly copied in our own day, have never been equalled."23
The beauty of Jenson's typeface became a sword in the stone for type designers for generations to follow. In the late nineteenth century, fabled type artist William Morris began with Jenson to inspire his roman typeface, called the Golden Type. "This type I studied with much care," he said, "getting it photographed to a big scale, and drawing it many times before I began designing my own letter."24 In the early 1900s, Bruce Rogers tried to capture the essence of Jenson more than once, at first failing, so far as he was concerned, with a typeface called Montaigne after the book in which it appeared, and then again with a beautiful design, Centaur, "probably the most admirable of the numerous revivals of the fifteenth-century type of Nicolas Jenson," decreed Alexander Lawson.25
Most inspiring and tragic is the tale of Thomas Cobden-Sanderson, a lawyer-turned-bookbinder-turned-designer and self-described "visionary and fanatic" who adapted Jenson for the Doves Press Bible of 1902, a holy and stunning book of only 500 copies that surely would have made both Gutenberg and Jenson proud. The Doves Bible was part of a movement of small, artisanal presses that tried to defend the beauty and humanity of print and typography even as the trade was being fully mechanized by high-speed, rotary presses and typesetting machines. Said The Guardian then: "For the first time we see that marvellous cluster of divine things, pure and dignified in form, exquisitely printed as literature, and free from all notes or other excrescences. It is something, surely, that in our own day such a masterpiece of workmanship can be and is produced."26 Cobden-Sanderson signed an agreement that upon his death, the typeface would pass to his estranged business partner, Sir Emery Walker.
But Cobden-Sanderson could not imagine his creation populating lesser books made by machines, and so over five months in 1916 and 1917, at the age of seventy-six, he took more than 170 half-mile walks to the Hammersmith Bridge in London to throw his entire, half-ton font of metal into the Thames.27 "He abhorred mechanical industry, and only by consigning the type to the Thames, he wrote in his diary, could he guarantee it would never be used in 'a press pulled otherwise than by the hand and arm of man,' " The Economist reported.28 In 2013 Robert Green recreated the Doves font from its printed remains.29 Then, two years later, he paid divers to comb the Thames riverbed and found 150 pieces of type.30 One may today buy electronic versions of Jenson (not to be confused with Janson, named after a seventeenth-century Leipzig printer). I find the Adobe rendition too perfect, too mechanical, so digital, insufficiently human. Updike called Jenson the "long-suffering and as yet unrivalled font."31 Indeed.
So many type designers and printers are memorialized in the names of the typefaces (here italicized) that we still select on our computers. Earlier I mentioned Francesco Griffo's italic variant for Aldus Manutius. Claude Garamond (also Garamont) was the first designer to produce punches and matrices for sale to type foundries.32 Upon his death, the punches and matrices were sold to Christophe Plantin, who Steinberg said "inaugurated the golden age of Netherlandish book production" in a house almost as renowned as Manutius'; Pettegree called him "the greatest printer of his age."33 France's Didot family was another printing dynasty; it was to them that Benjamin Franklin sent his grandson to learn the craft. From Parma, Italy, Giambattista Bodoni published in Italian, Greek, Latin, French, Russian, German, and English and was printer to Carlos III of Spain, a correspondent with Franklin, and a pensioner of Napoleon. "He was one of those fortunate mortals who, appearing at just the right moment, knew exactly what he wanted to do, attempted it, succeeded in it, was praised for it, and deserved (and highly enjoyed) the praise," said Updike. And in England, William Caslon established the great English type foundry. He had been hired to produce an Arabic font, but when he set his own name in a roman letter at the bottom of the type specimen, he was persuaded to make his own English typefaces.34
Printing was a many-headed industry that fostered jargon and other barriers to expertise but also craved standardization so that equipment and craftsmen could move efficiently from shop to shop without adjustment or training. That is how type cases gained standard layouts and lost a few letters along the way. The "long s," which looks like an "f" with its front finger lopped off—"ſ"—befuddles modern readers of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century documents, as it appears to be inserted randomly with the "round s" that we know, resulting in, for example, Congreſs of the United States. It was gradually and thankfully dropped by printers in the first half of the nineteenth century. Franklin wrote in 1786 that "the Round s begins to be the Mode and in nice printing the Long ſ is rejected entirely."35 Thank you, sir. For much of print's history, type sizes had been given names in a befuddling array that varied nation to nation. Between 1737 and 1764, French type designer Pierre Simon Fournier developed a point system, 144 points to an inch. English and Dutch brevier-sized type, comparable to the French petit texte, the German petit or junger, the Italian testino, and the Spanish brevario were all eight-point type. In English, nonpareil equaled six point, minion seven point, bourgeois nine point, and pica—the size people my age prefer from word processors—twelve point.

All the tasks Gutenberg and company performed in their shop would eventually be sliced into independent trades: compositor, pressman, publisher, editor, type founder, and type designer, with the once separate trade of bookbinder eventually merging into printing houses. In the last half of the eighteenth century came one last, great artisan who, like Gutenberg et al., did it all.
John Baskerville made a good living as a teacher of calligraphy—a scribe—and an engraver of tombstones. He then took up a lucrative trade in japanning, the making of lacquerware. At about age forty-five, in the middle of the 1700s, he followed his artistic passion into printing, becoming "the greatest type-designer of the post-incunabula age," said historian Steinberg, who then could not help but snark that Baskerville "spent nearly his whole life in Birmingham, which thus for once enters into the history of civilization."36 Baskerville was not an easy man. He was an avowed atheist. His biographer, Josiah Henry Benton, quoted an acquaintance, John Noble, whose father—a seller of trinkets to slave traders—learned writing from Baskerville: "I have been very often with him to Baskerville's house, and found him ever a most profane wretch, and ignorant of literature to a wonderful degree.... In person, he was a shrivelled old coxcomb.... He had wit; but it was always at the expense of religion and decency, particularly if in company with clergy."
Baskerville designed his own typefaces, which were "for their time, unusually slender, delicate, well balanced, and tasteful," said Simon Garfield. They were modern. As Baskerville wrote in the preface to his edition of John Milton's Paradise Lost: "Having been an early admirer of the beauty of letters, I became insensibly desirous of contributing to the perfection of them."37 Baskerville built his own, customized wooden presses, making a platen from machined brass, to provide as perfect a plane as possible, and adjusting other parts to make sure the type did not bite too deeply into the page. He formulated his own inks, boiling aged linseed oil until it reached just the right stickiness, adding resin to increase the luster, mixing in specially collected lamp black, and then aging the ink like wine for three years. T.C. Hansard, who wrote the authoritative guide to printing Typographia in 1825, said Baskerville made the first major innovation in printing ink in two centuries, creating "a superior kind of black."38 And he invented a new method to calendar his paper, to make it as smooth and shiny as a modern magazine page. While a page was still wet off the press, Baskerville pressed it between hot copper plates; the result, said Abbé de Fontenai, was "so glossy and of such perfect polish that one would suppose the paper was made of silk rather than of linen."39 To publish his Virgil took Baskerville seven years and it "went forth to astonish all the librarians of Europe," wrote Thomas Babington Macaulay. Benton gushed: "Every part of the volume was in harmony with every other part. There was no disproportion. The book has been well said to be a landmark in the history of typography." Dr. Samuel Johnson ordered one copy, Benjamin Franklin six.40
"Such perfectionism, needless to say, did not endear him to his competitors," said Alexander Lawson. "He was as roundly damned as he was lavishly praised."41 Biographer Benton quoted one observer who was of two minds: "His paper was of finer gloss, and his ink of a brighter black than ordinary; his type was thicker than usual in the thick strokes, and finer in the fine, and was sharpened at the angles in a novel manner; all these combined gave his editions a brilliant rich look, when his pages were turned lightly over." All good so far, but then the critic added, "When you sit down to read them, the eye is almost immediately fatigued with the gloss of the paper and ink, and the sharp angles of the type; and it is universally known that Baskerville's printing is not read." Benton labeled this critique "false and maliciously so."
Baskerville recognized that his high standards made for an avocation, not a business. "It is not my desire to print many books; but such only, as are books of Consequence, of intrinsic merit, or established Reputation, and which the public may be pleased to see in an elegant dress, and to purchase at such a price, as will repay the extraordinary care and expense that must necessarily be bestowed upon them."42 His ethic would be the model for small presses in the twentieth century. Alas, at the time, the public was unwilling to pay two to three times the price of other editions. After printing his Virgil, his Milton, and his masterwork, a Bible, Baskerville gave up "this business of printing, which I am heartily tired of, and repent I ever attempted."43 He tried to sell his types, enlisting Franklin as his agent, but failed. His widow sold them to a dramatist in France, where they were used to print the works of Voltaire. They eventually landed at the Cambridge University Press.
In death, Baskerville himself "proved to be a movable type," quipped Simon Garfield. Scoffing at religion once more—"as I have a hearty contempt for all superstition, the farce of a consecrated ground, the Irish barbarism of sure and certain hopes etc."—he did not want to be buried in a churchyard, instead calling for his body to be ensconced, vertically, in a conical mausoleum on his property in Birmingham.44 His home there was wrecked in the 1791 Priestley Riots against religious dissenters and supporters of the French Revolution. In 1821, his body was found in his lead coffin under the destroyed mausoleum. It then spent eight years in a warehouse, where one could allegedly pay to see it. Then the coffin was moved to plumber's shop, where it was opened and a sketch of the "mummied" Baskerville was made; that sketch and a piece of the shroud that had covered the body are now in the Birmingham library, where the city says, "Legend has it that if you touch the shroud then you will be cursed!"45 Eager to be rid of the body, the plumber applied to the rector of St. Philip's Church to move it there, but that request was refused because of Baskerville's atheism. A bookseller offered to inter the body in his vault at Christ Church. The rector there told the plumber it would be impossible but also told him "with an unmistakable twinkle in his eye" where the keys to the vault were kept. So the plumber carried the body on a wheelbarrow and placed him in the bookseller's vault at Christ Church, which no doubt had Baskerville spinning.46 That church was demolished, its land taken over for shops and offices (since torn down) and Baskerville was moved once more into a vault beneath the chapel in the Church of England cemetery on Warstone Lane. The chapel was itself later demolished and the vault was bricked over to save it from vandalism. The plaque that finally marked Baskerville's grave is no longer visible.47 "This," said Garfield, "is how we honour our type heroes."48 This was the last gasp of the printer as artisan before industrialization would intrude. Next came an age of automation and industrialization of print, lamented by scandalous twentieth-century type designer Eric Gill as "a world wherein no man makes the whole of anything."49







14
Steam and the Mechanization of Print
Technology, like evolution, does not progress at a steady pace, fast or slow; it lurches and halts as innovation directs, needs demand, and related developments permit. Beyond tweaks such as Baskerville's to the wooden printing press and his formulation of ink, no major changes were made in the mechanism and method of printing from 1450 until 1800. Then innovation exploded.
Stereotyping—the means of making a mold of a page so it could be duplicated without having to reset the type for a next edition—was a leap forward in efficiency for printing. The labor that went into setting every letter in every word, line, column, and page by hand, then cleaning and redistributing each sort to the type case, and then—if a book sold well and more editions were called for—repeating the entire process, letter by letter, is exhausting to contemplate. Recall Paul Needham's theory, that Gutenberg might have created stereotype molds, two lines at a time, for the Catholicon. If he did, Gutenberg's experimentation was not furthered by three centuries of successors—until some finally tried.
In the 1780s, Henry Johnson, a compositor working for The Times of London, was issued a patent for the casting of not just individual letters but common, short words, prefixes, and suffixes—be, for, the, and, th, con, ing, ion—though compositors complained that they were quicker picking individual letters than searching for letter combinations in a now much larger type case.1 That variation on stereotyping—called logography and also the unpronounce-able polyamatiamie, typocheographie, and hamapoligrammatiamme—was enthusiastically supported by the Earl of Stanhope, whom we'll meet in a moment. But the fad faded. In 1701, J. Van der Mey of Leyden took entire typeset pages and dipped the bottoms in molten lead or solder to fuse them, making permanent printing plates. But that was costly, as the individual letters could be used only once. "Van der Mey's invention was any thing but an economical mode of printing," ruled T.C. Hansard in his encyclopedic manual of printing in 1825. It also disappeared.2
William Ged was recorded making the first creditable attempts at stereotyping in 1725. His efforts, too, were ill-fated. Ged tried making molds of pages using plaster of paris or gypsum and needed capital to perfect the work, but two funders did not keep their word to him. The other printing trades, fearing the harm to their businesses, conspired to sabotage Ged's work. A type founder gave him defective type. Compositors would correct one error on a page but then enter more errors. "And the pressmen, when the masters were absent, battered the letters in aid of the compositors," reported George Kubler. Ged surrendered and his first plates were melted down for type.3
Eventually, the perfection of stereotyping was taken up by a grand character in the history of printing, Charles Mahon, third Earl of Stanhope. A Whig member of the British House of Commons, running in association with the radical John Wilkes, and then a member of the House of Lords, Stanhope fought for the rights of freedom of speech, habeas corpus, and trial by jury and for the abolition of the slave trade. He was an outspoken ally of the French Revolution. In 1794, his London home was sacked in similar circumstances to the destruction of Baskerville's Birmingham home three years earlier. As an inventor he built three calculators and a logic machine—read: early computers;4 designed devices for canal locks; conversed with Ben Franklin about electricity and designed lightning-rod systems; designed a steamship with a paddle fashioned after a duck's foot, almost hiring steam pioneer James Watt to build it, influencing in turn the work of another pioneer, Robert Fulton; devised means to protect ships from mines; invented roofing material of tar, chalk, and sand; proposed mechanisms for preventing the counterfeiting of money; and invented plaster of his own formula as well as ventilation systems to protect buildings from fire (once setting the ground-floor of a building ablaze as distinguished guests, including the Lord Mayor of London, were in a second-story room and "those eating ice-creams above were not inconvenienced").5
Stanhope thought of advancing publishing "as he did of his public service, as the obligation of nobility," said P.M. Zall. His greatest cause was reducing the cost of printing.6 "To every man who is fully sensible of the importance of diffusing knowledge, the dearness of books must be a subject of considerable regret," he wrote.7 Stanhope said in a 1795 speech: "The invaluable ART OF PRINTING has dispelled that former Darkness; and, like a new Luminary enlightens the whole Horizon. The gloomy Night of Ignorance is past. The pure unsullied Light of Reason is NOW much diffused, that it is no longer in the power of Tyranny to destroy it. And I believe, and hope, that glorious intellectual Light will, shortly, shine forth on Europe, with meridian Splendor."8
Working with three others who were trying to develop stereotyping, Stanhope refined the method and wrote instructions for it: First, the type has to be specially composed such that spaces are even with the bottom of letters. Second, burn gypsum (used in drywall) and dilute it with water to make a plaster. "Doesn't it look like a good wife's buckwheat batter?" asked Thomas MacKellar in his 1878 manual of typography.9 Third, build a frame around the form of type to exact specifications. Fourth, use lye to clean the type of ink after its last proof is pulled and then spread a thin layer of oil and turpentine on the type and form to assure the plaster will not stick. Fifth, pour the plaster onto the mold, a thin layer at first to assure every letter's crevice—the tiny half-donut holes in a's and e's—is filled. Sixth, bake the mold and then extract it. Seventh, place the mold in a new form and dunk it in a vat of a half-ton of molten metal. Eighth, cool and extract the new page, a duplicate of the original.10 And be warned: many a mold breaks halfway through the process.
Stanhope's printer, Andrew Wilson, wrote that stereotyping could reduce the cost of books by twenty to forty percent. As Stanhope tallied the gains, rather than having to print thousands of copies of a book and hold onto them in a warehouse until—one hopes—they sell over so many years, one might print only hundreds and, when the first edition sells out, print more without having to reset the type. Less capital is required, sunk into paper, ink, and books; less warehouse space is needed; less labor is spent recomposing type; and there's less wear and tear on the type. Stereotyping reduced the risk in publishing. "What an Advantage to Literature & to the Arts & Sciences!"11 New materials were developed for the molds, such as papier-mâché, and the process spread from the printing of books to newspapers, which could then keep multiple presses busy on a single edition, increasing print runs and circulation. The Times of London was the first newspaper printed via papier-mâché stereotyping.12 Stereotyping became the standard in printing, along with its sister technology, electrotyping, the making of duplicate plates through the electrical transfer of copper molecules in a battery bath. By the time I set foot in a composing room as a newspaper intern in the 1970s, stereotype molds were made by exerting considerable pressure on a cardboard mat, called a flong, over a page of type. The flong was in turn used to mold multiple half-round printing plates in lead, which were placed on the cylinders of high-speed presses. (As a souvenir, I still have two of these very heavy press plates. They make a conversation-starting base for the coffee table in my office.)
A next critical innovation in printing—the first major redesign of the printing press itself probably since Gutenberg's time—came once again from Lord Stanhope, who invented the iron press and added a system of levers to augment the mighty screw. This didn't greatly speed up printing, but it did allow use of a larger platen—twice the size of that in a wooden press, as big as a full sheet of paper—so an entire form could be printed with one pull of the press, instead of having to move the form and pull a second time. With the aid of levers, "the Pressman will no longer be subject to that exhaustion which has been the opprobrium of the trade," said a writer of the time.13 The Times of London—which keeps reappearing in this saga of technical progress—"was quick to appreciate the value of the Stanhope press," said James Moran, in his encyclopedic history of printing presses. "What The Times itself described as a 'battalion' of Stanhope presses was used to print the paper for the first fourteen years of the nineteenth century."14 Stanhope did not patent his press; as with stereotyping, he forswore profits to benefit printing "for the good of mankind."15 He also worked to develop rollers to replace the balls used to ink type, experimenting with "the skins of every animal which he thought likely to answer his purpose" to create a seamless cover (a goal not fully realized until composite materials—first, glue and molasses, later rubber—were developed).16 Stanhope's press inspired no end of iron and steel successors. The Columbian, an American machine that was manufactured even into the twentieth century, was emblazoned with bold symbols: eagles, serpents, olive branches of peace, horns of plenty, in Hansard's admiring description "all handsomely bronzed and gilt, resisting and bearing down all other power!"17 European equivalents replaced the American symbols with globes, lions, griffins, and the lamp of knowledge.

Then came steam, which did much to accelerate the speed, scale, and progress of printing and publishing: powering presses, powering automatic papermaking machines, powering the trains and ships that would carry books far, and powering the passenger trains that would become a venue and reason for reading, altogether exploding the market for print into more hands at lower cost than ever. German printer and bookseller Friedrich Koenig is credited with the first useful steam-powered printing machine. He began in 1810 with a patent for a steam-powered press still using a flat platen, but the next year had his breakthrough, developing the first cylinder machine, which could print 800 to 1,100 pages an hour—versus 200 or so an hour on the old, wooden press. Better rollers also meant that the inking of forms could be automated.
And here is The Times of London once more, ordering two steam-driven, double-cylinder presses with the stipulation that no others would be sold within ten miles of London. The paper's owner, John Walter II, secretly installed the first machine in a building next to The Times. Late into the night and early morning of November 29, 1814, printers at The Times were told to wait for late-breaking news from the Continent while next door, Koenig's machine churned out the entire edition of the paper. "At six o'clock in the morning Walter entered the press room and astonished the men by telling them that the newspaper was already printed by steam; that if they attempted violence there was a force ready to repress it; but if they were peaceable their wages would be continued until similar employment could be procured."18 One hundred seventy-two years later, at the same newspaper, its latest owner, Rupert Murdoch, would engage in similar subterfuge to secretly build an entirely new, computerized printing plant and computerized editing system in the Wapping district of London, abandoning its hot-metal printing plant and its printers and reducing the shop's workforce from 6,800 to 670. This set off a year-long strike that ended in victory for Murdoch and his ally, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. It also marked the beginning of the end of Fleet Street as the center of publishing in England. Caxton's successor, Wynkyn de Worde, had set up shop near there about 1500 and the city's first daily newspaper was published there in 1702. By the end of the twentieth century, almost every printer and publisher had decamped to sterile offices of glass and steel elsewhere in London, distant from the noise, smell, and heat of their printing presses.
Development of printing presses proceeded now in leaps, shifting from flat platens to round cylinders, improving speed and quality, and adding much mechanical complexity. Stereotyping enabled the manufacture of curved printing plates for rotary presses, which made for even faster printing. A century after the steam press, in the early twentieth century, came offset printing, in which one cylinder carries the inked plate, another cylinder carries the paper, and an intermediary rubber cylinder picks up the inked impression from the plate and transfers it to the paper. The printing is offset in the sense that the printing plate and the paper have no direct contact. This allowed for ever greater speed and quality and eventually for reliable multicolor presses.

Now to the next beneficiary of innovation: paper. To feed high-speed rotary presses, two innovations were demanded of the paper industry: the manufacture of continuous rolls of paper instead of sheets and the use of new raw materials to reduce cost. Just as Stanhope was perfecting stereotyping and inventing his iron press at the turn of the nineteenth century, Nicolas-Louis Robert, working for a fabled French printing family, the Didots, developed the idea for a new papermaking machine built as an assembly line: Pulp is poured onto a continuously moving screen, shaking as a papermaker would to even it out in a smooth sheet. At the other end of the belt, water is sucked away and the still-wet paper is picked up by felt-covered drums and fed onto heated drums for drying. The English Fourdrinier brothers, Sealy and Henry, licensed the patent but went bankrupt making prototypes of the machine; "for which their only reward was blighted hopes and embittered lives."19 Still, the machine kept their name. The first industrial version of the Fourdrinier machine went into operation in 1804. By 1816, upset English craftsmen petitioned Parliament to stop the building of Fourdriniers, the despised looms of papermaking. In 1830, they rioted north of London, occupying mills and destroying some equipment until troops arrived.20 In 1837, Parliament awarded the Fourdriniers £7,000 in recognition of their contribution to the nation. A decade later, The Times launched a campaign to raise money for the destitute surviving brother.21
Until the mid-nineteenth century, paper was made primarily from linen and cotton rags, which created shortages and such a competitive market for sloughed off shirts and bloomers that governments declared rags a strategic asset and controlled their export. Shortages were acute in England, where wool was more suitable for the cold climate than cotton and where Parliament decreed in 1666 that only wool should be used to bury the dead. Shortages were just as dire in America, where papermakers ran advertisements begging citizens to save and sell their rags. Mark Kurlansky said by the 1850s, rags made up half the cost of manufacturing paper. He told the story of rag pickers scavenging the clothes of soldiers killed on the battlefield at Gettysburg to sell them to a paper mill.22 Worse, I. Augustus Stanwood imported Egyptian mummies to strip off their burial shrouds for raw material, causing an outbreak of cholera among mill workers.
It will come as no surprise, then, that many attempts were made to find substitute fibers to turn into paper. Many were tested, including corn husks, pinecones, potatoes, hemp, straw, nettles, moss, cattails, dandelion root, cabbage, okra, grasses, recycled paper, asbestos (books that kill?), and wasp nests. The wasps taught scientists in the early eighteenth century that paper could be made without rags and inspired the notion that it could be made from wood, as that is what the insects used. It was not until 1800 that paper was made from wood pulp by Matthias Koops, who nonetheless set up a company to make paper from straw; it went bankrupt in 1802. In the 1840s, German papermakers built and patented wood grinders to produce inexpensive newsprint with a mixture of wood pulp and rag fiber. In Nova Scotia in 1841, Charles Fenerty made the first paper from ground wood on the American continent.23 The problem with wood is that it is hard; to break down its fibers to turn them into pliable paper required the invention of a chemical process. In the 1860s, American chemist Benjamin Chew Tilghman experimented with cooking wood chips in sulfur dioxide and water in a "digester" and then—because the product would end up dark and could not be bleached—treating it with lime to neutralize wood's acid. This sulfite process stank, and so paper mills moved away from towns to the forests and water supplies whence came their raw materials. The resulting paper was acidic and not made to last. "A 150-year-old book made from wood paper will not hold up as well as the 400-year-old books of Aldus Manutius made from rag paper," said Kurlansky.24 Nonetheless, paper was now abundant, not precious; fleeting, not permanent; cheap in so many ways, not rich. Print became a disposable product of consumerism.

New mechanisms of transportation and communication would also have profound effect on publishing. Steamboats on canals and steamships on the ocean could transport books as well as stereotype plates to new markets. Steam engines drove publishing to new heights financially but, some would say, new depths culturally. "Not only did freight trains allow books to be cheaply and widely distributed," wrote Kevin Hayes, "but also, the passenger train provided new contexts for reading, contexts that were ideal for the inexpensive books produced by the steam-powered press. The development of passenger railways combined with the widespread availability of inexpensively produced books significantly influenced what people read, how they obtained what they read, and, indeed, how they read."25 In England, publisher George Routledge saw the opportunity presented by trains and created the Railway Library, publishing 1,227 titles over fifty years, some highbrow (Sense & Sensibility), some less so (Baron Montez of Panama and Paris). The establishment of stores offering newspapers and books in most every railway station—the roots of the newsstand empire of W.H. Smith—created a ready channel of sale, as did networks of boys pitching snacks and publications on trains. In the United States, the lack of international copyright led to the pirating of many British and European novels in cheap, small books, with publishers meeting incoming steamships to rush the latest imports into print ahead of competitors.
As ever when technology sparks new public behavior, worry will follow. "Many are of opinion that the small print of cheap editions in the United States, will seriously injure the eyesight of the rising generation, especially as they often read in railway cars, devouring whole novels, printed in newspapers, in very inferior type," fretted Charles Lyell in 1849.26 Critics worried about cultural globalization in one direction, with Americans reading "the distorted, unreal, grotesquely horrible creations of perverted French taste."27 According to Hayes, others worried that the sociability that existed in tight, jumbling, noisy horse-drawn coaches was lost when people demarcated personal space in depersonalized American train cars. The Railway Traveller's Handy Book of Hints in 1862 advised that a book or a newspaper was useful for reserving a seat "before being turned into 'an excellent weapon' to fend off unwanted conversation with 'impertinent, intrusive, and inquisitive' fellow passengers," reported Aileen Fyfe.28 (Our phones did not suddenly make us antisocial.)
The book itself changed as much as behavior with it. "The pamphlet novel devalued the book as a material object," said Hayes. "The pamphlet novel changed the idea of the book. Formerly, the book was a fairly expensive item that required a certain amount of skill and craftsmanship to produce and which people displayed prominently in their homes. With the pamphlet novel, features such as gilt and tooled bindings and generous leading were irrelevant. Cheapness and availability became more important. The pamphlet novel made the book less a material object and more a vehicle for a work's text."29







15
Electricity and the Industrialization of Media
Then came electricity, whose impact at first was less as a means of powering machines than as a means of carrying communication. The telegraph finished the job steam began, seeming to erase time and distance. "It was not until the advent of the telegraph that messages could travel faster than a messenger," said McLuhan.1 Better roads, more ubiquitous postal coverage, faster ships, then railroads brought news to newspaper editors ever faster. In the United States, newspapers had established networks for news as postal regulations allowed every newspaper in the country to send every other newspaper a copy for free.
That the telegraph allowed instantaneous communication with unseen strangers fostered fretting over stranger danger. "Permit me to express the opinion that telegraphing is not such a business as women should seek to engage in," wrote J.W. Stover in a letter to The New York Times in 1865, opposing membership in the National Telegraphic Union to women. "It brings them in contact with too many rough corners of the world, and requires an understanding of such matters as a womanly woman cannot be expected to possess."2 The following February in Telegrapher, a Mrs. M.E. Lewis responded: "Woman's sphere, according to him, is keeping house. Now, exactly the qualities for a good housekeeper are those for a good telegrapher—patience, faithfulness, careful attention to numerous FAMILY AND MARRIAGE and tiresome little details. If women are not on an average altogether superior to men in those qualities, I am in error."3
Both jubilation and consternation met the first telegraph wire linking America to England in 1858—briefly, until it failed. The jubilation: "New York yesterday went Cable-mad," reported The New York Times. "Church bells rang for an hour. The factory bells and steam whistles of the workshops joined in the general tolling and shrieking. People drank in the glorious tidings of success."4 Then consternation: "Has the land telegraph done any good?" demanded a Washington correspondent for The New York Times. "Has it banished any evil, mitigated any sorrow.... So far as the influence of the newspaper upon the mind and morals of the people is concerned, there can be no rational doubt that the telegraph has caused vast injury. Superficial, sudden, unsifted, too fast for the truth, must be all telegraphic intelligence. Does it render the popular mind too fast for the truth? Ten days bring us the mails from Europe. What need is there for scraps of news in ten minutes?"5 Nonetheless, news wire services in many countries sprang up to feed newspapers and with them came newspaper wars and fears that the technology alone created "an opportunity, which would not otherwise exist, for unprincipled persons to fabricate 'false news.' " American Telegraph Magazine proposed a solution and beseeched the wire services: "Gentlemen of the 'Association!' THE TELEGRAPH SHOULD BE OPEN AND FREE TO ALL—giving peculiar privileges to none."6 Then the telegraph might have been true to the title of Tom Standage's book, The Victorian Internet.
In this same remarkable period of innovation, the photograph was about to make its impression on the public's visualization of the world. After photography's invention in 1839, the photograph was brought to the press with the halftone process, perfected from the 1850s to the 1880s. In it, a photograph is photographed again through a screen, the image converted into dots—some dense and dark, some small and light—which can be printed alongside text on the press. Meanwhile, the camera was set loose from the studio as it became smaller and portable; Kodak released its first model in 1888.
Then photography began to supersede illustration in news. "The average illustrator is looking on improvements in camera work with consternation," wrote The New York Times in 1901. In a report on the trend, The Times compared two news events. When President Lincoln was shot in 1865, Harper's Weekly sent all its artists to Washington by train to draw locations and people; by the time they arrived, he was dead. They rushed by train back to New York, drawing on the way, and then redrew their best on blocks of wood for engraving under the knife, a full-page illustration taking a day or more of work. An extra edition of Harper's came out after four days. Years later, The Times said, a magazine editor on deadline would send artists to the scene of news, have them sketch their illustrations, and then telegraph a detailed description to an artist back in the newsroom, who would draw an illustration in turn. One illustrated daily had eighty-five artists on staff.
Photography provided an entirely different view of news. When President McKinley was assassinated by an anarchist in Buffalo in 1901, Collier's Weekly telegraphed orders to photographers on the scene, who managed to rush their images back to New York City within fourteen hours. Two hours later, the pictures were ready to print. The Times estimated Collier's extra edition on McKinley cost a tenth of Harper's on Lincoln, with "a paper in elegance, attractiveness, and accuracy" that was "so far ahead of the old time extra that there was simply no comparison." What happened to all the unemployed artists? "Most of them have gone higher up," said The Times. Others took to illustrating advertisements or fiction.7
Before we leave this century of innovation in print, there is one more development, one more machine to recall: the Linotype. Even as stereotyping eliminated the labor of resetting type, there was still the drudgery of setting it in the first place. To automate any of the tasks feeding the composition of text—founding type, composing text, and redistributing type—would have been a victory. There were many attempts: scores of magnificent if failed machines that looked like fanciful harpsichords, carousels, looms, Gatling guns, robots, and typewriters gone mad.8 Mark Twain invested a reported $200,000 in one of them, the Paige, which promised to set and redistribute type as an automated compositor. It bankrupted the author. Two Paiges were made and only one remains, in Twain's Hartford home and museum.9
James Clephane was a stenographer (one more latter-day scribe enters the tale) who became the fastest court reporter serving Lincoln's cabinet.10 Frustrated with the speed of handwriting and shorthand, Clephane helped encourage the development of the typewriter, taking at least a half-dozen early models through their paces. Then, "while pursuing this interesting line of activity, he conceived of a machine that would dispense with typesetting by hand," said Frank Romano, a chronicler of the Linotype.11 Clephane met young mechanic Ottmar Mergenthaler and explained the idea for a "writing machine." After more than a decade of trial and many errors under Clephane's goading, Mergenthaler arrived at his eureka!, conceiving of a single glorious contraption to dispense with the three fundamental functions of typesetting—molding letters, composing them, and redistributing them.
This is how his Linotype works: Multiple matrices—that is, molds—for every letter are stacked up in columns in a magazine. The operator punches a key, releasing a letter's matrix, which falls into place, followed by character after character until the line is nearly full. In between words are wedge-shaped spaces. When the line is complete, the spaces are all raised at once, pushing the words apart equidistantly to fill out—to justify—the line of type. The finished line of matrices is moved, with many clicks and kerchunketa-kerchunketas, to a spot where molten lead is shot into it. Once the molding of a line is complete, the matrices are marched up to the top of the magazine, where each returns to its proper slot. Meanwhile, once cooled, out pops a complete line of type, then the next and the next.
After more than four centuries of movable type, Gutenberg's methods of molding and setting type by hand, a letter at a time, were retired. Here was the final machine needed to mark the complete mechanization and industrialization of media, the era of scale, the age of mass media.

In the early part of the twentieth century, print met its first competitor, radio. It was not welcomed with open arms. In Media at War, Gwenyth Jackaway chronicled American newspapers' opposition to broadcast in a tale of defensiveness and protectionism that would be reprised with the arrivals of television and the internet. "Having been presented with a new technology, contemporary actors voice their concerns about how the new medium will change their lives, and in so doing they reveal their vulnerabilities," she wrote. "In their hopes of technological deliverance is reflected the ways in which their current lives fall short. In their fears of technological danger can be heard what they hold sacred and are most afraid of losing. Listening to fears about the impact of new media is much like interpreting dreams. These are the collective nightmares of a people, or an institution, about the potential dangers of changing the familiar media ecology."12 Newspaper publishers tried to disadvantage their new competitors, strong-arming radio executives to agree to abandon news gathering, to buy and use only reports supplied by three wire services, to limit news bulletins to five minutes, and to sell no sponsorship of news. Their agreement also prohibited commentators from even discussing news less than twelve hours old (a so-called "hot news" doctrine the Associated Press would try to establish against internet sites as late as 2009).13 The pact fell away as wire services and station-owning newspapers bristled under its restrictions.
Print publishers tried other tactics. They threatened to stop printing radio schedules in their newspapers, but readers protested and radio won again. They lobbied to have radio regulated by the federal government and then unironically maintained that radio companies under government control would be unreliable covering government. The newspaper press tried to have radio reporters barred from the Congressional press galleries. They called radio a "monopolistic monster" and lobbied for a European model of government control of the airwaves. They blamed radio for siphoning off advertising revenue, though the Great Depression was more likely to blame for newspapers folding or consolidating in the era. They also lobbied for the government to limit or ban advertising on radio.
All their protectionism was cloaked in self-important, sacred rhetoric, with publishers accusing radio of manifold sins. Radio, they said, spread loose statements and false rumors: fake news. Radio "filched" and "lifted" news from newspapers. Radio seduced the public with the human voice to exploit emotions, to "catch and hold attention," and to excite listeners. Will Irwin, a muckraking print journalist, wrote in his book Propaganda and the News: "The radio, through the magic inherent in the human voice, has means of appealing to the lower nerve centers and of creating emotions which the hearer mistakes for thoughts." Radio was "a species of show business, with overtones of peddling and soap-boxing." Editor and Publisher maintained that "the sense of hearing does not satisfy the same intellectual craving as does the sense of reading" and the editor of American Press claimed that "most folks are eye-minded. They get only impressions through their ears; they get facts through their eyes."
"Using the doomsday approach that so often accompanies the invocation of 'sacred' values," wrote Jackaway, "they warned that the values of democracy and the survival of our political system would be endangered" if radio took on the roles of informing the electorate and serving a marketplace of ideas. Editor and Publisher decried the state of democracy and "the apathy, superficiality, and plain ignorance of the voting masses," and blamed radio for that. "They predicted that with radio news would come demagogic politicians who would sway the passions of the masses with skilled radio oratory. They warned the airwaves would simply become tools of government propaganda."14 Come World War II, Hitler and Goebbels would prove them correct, though Edward R. Murrow would have surely begged to disagree, as would have Franklin Roosevelt. FDR detoured around the gatekeepers of print journalism—then largely Republican, controlled by press barons including William Randolph Hearst and the Chicago Tribune's Robert McCormick, who opposed his New Deal and American entry into World War II.15 The President used the new medium, radio, to speak directly to voters in thirty fireside chats and a total of almost 300 broadcasts.
"Never," said Jackaway, "is there the admission that public opinion might be manipulated by the printed word as well as the spoken word, or any recognition that by attempting to control radio news the press was actually infringing upon the broadcasters' freedom of expression. Instead, the print journalists cloak themselves in a mantle of self-sacrificing virtue and depict the broadcasters and the government as enemies of the most essential values of our political system. Throughout these journalistic criticisms of radio is an appeal to an idealized model of the press, in which newspapers dutifully protect the people from the abuses of governmental excess or political propaganda. The radio in contrast, is portrayed as a medium through which the public could be manipulated and exploited."16 The old medium is always the solution to the problems the old medium says the new medium is causing.
In this era of mass media and despite new competition from radio and next television, print media prospered. In America, the number of newspapers eventually fell as audiences fled to television but the survivors, in many cases monopolies, built up gigantic businesses in audience and in classified and local advertising. Magazines grew into outlets of national mass media themselves inside large print conglomerates—Time Inc., Hearst, Condé Nast, Meredith—with countless specialty titles serving no end of interests, hobbies, demographics, and professions.

I was fortunate to have lived and worked atop the fault line between the Gutenberg and internet ages. I was born in 1954, just as television was becoming a mass medium in the majority of American homes. I began my career in journalism writing on typewriters. I saw my words set in lead on Linotypes at the Chicago Tribune. I ended up writing and delivering my sentences on screens. Each of these technologies affected the way I write and the way I think.
Marshall McLuhan could foresee the upheaval electric technology would bring to print, but he thought xerography would be the agent of change. Invented by Chester Carlson in 1938, electrophotography transferred an image of text by means of an electric charge that attracted black powder to some parts of a page and not others (just as ink-jet printers would next use electric charges to attract and repel liquid ink). Xerography challenged copyright, as copies became fast, easy, and relatively inexpensive to make. "Xerography is bringing a reign of terror into the world of publishing," McLuhan cried, "because it means that every reader can become both author and publisher." As ever, he was ahead of his own predictions, for xerography was not a means of publishing profitably in significant numbers. Still, he foresaw the path ahead. "It totally decentralizes the long centralized publishing process. Authorship and readership alike can become production-oriented under xerography. Anybody can take any book apart, insert parts of other books and other materials of his own interest, and make his own book in a relatively fast time." McLuhan understood the pent-up desire to converse with text and what stopped it. "The problem is copyrighting, and Congress is now pondering these problems—how to protect the old technology from the new technology by legislation. It will not succeed. There is no possible protection from technology except by technology. When you create a new environment with one phase of a technology, you have to create an antienvironment with the next. But xerography is electricity invading the world of typography, and it means a total revolution in this old sphere."17
Gutenberg's methodology, known as hot type, would be replaced by photocomposition, or cold type, which produced text by shining light through images of letters onto photographic paper. In the 1960s and 70s, Linotypes were being hauled to scrap heaps and museums, replaced by humming boxes in cold computer rooms. In opposition to the new technology, New York's International Typographical Union led devastating strikes that killed seven newspapers and eventually their union as well.
The revolution was far from over. Next came word processing. Computer terminals migrated into newsrooms, where reporters and editors worked at screens; in the efficiency argot of the time, they were conserving keystrokes. The process of writing changed. In his surprisingly engaging and entertaining book for such a nerdy topic, Track Changes: A Literary History of Word Processing, Matthew Kirschenbaum asserted that the computer allowed the writer to achieve a textual excellence that typewriters demanded but did not allow. "The ideal of perfection thus becomes closely tied to the supposed dematerialization of the written act: a perfect document is one that bears no visible trace of its prior history; indeed, it is as though the document did not have a history but rather emerged, fully formed in its first and final interaction, from the mind of the author."18
Characters molded of lead were replaced by characters drawn with light were replaced by characters drawn with bits were replaced by a computer language called Postscript, which could describe any shape—typeface or image—to be replicated at any scale by any device, screen or printer.
"The history of printing has been the history of the abolition of the impression," said typographer Eric Gill. "A print is properly a dent made by pressing; the history of letterpress has been the history of the abolition of that dent."19 Offset printing removed the dent as its images were impressed on rubber and then on paper: printing by contact, not by force. Photocomposition, xerography, and Postscript eliminated not just the dent but the materiality of text. Gutenberg was dead. It took five centuries—a grand run—but new technology finally replaced him.







16
The Meaning of It All
In the early 1960s, Elizabeth Eisenstein, then a professor teaching history at American University, read Marshall McLuhan's The Gutenberg Galaxy. "It blew my mind," she told me in an interview for an earlier book. On the one hand, Eisenstein wanted to refute McLuhan when he "seemed to take mischievous pleasure in the loss of familiar historical perspectives." She was offended that he dispensed "with chronological sequence and historical context altogether." On the other hand, his theses intrigued her as "I had long been dissatisfied with prevailing explanations for the political and intellectual revolutions of Early Modern times." She wanted to do proper research into the effect of printing. But as she began work, Eisenstein was shocked that "I could not find a single book, or even a sizeable article which attempted to survey the consequences of the fifteenth-century communications shift." "For the next two years," she told me, "I was a little crazy." She was critical of McLuhan and wary of being dismissed as McLuhanite. "But, my goodness, how many things you can explain by adding this"—printing—"to your sense of what is happening. I was astounded when I began to make connections. There it was."1
There it was, as she said in the title of the monumental work she published in 1979, The Printing Press as an Agent of Change. With her two volumes, Eisenstein established the new discipline of book history. When I first read it, more than three decades later, my mind was blown, too. I found it hard to believe that there had not been rigorous study specific to print for generations—centuries—before, as it seemed self-evident that printing had immense impact on society, worthy of research. "If printing often receives a somewhat cursory treatment in large volumes devoted to the history of the book, of western technology or of early capitalism, it gets even shorter shrift elsewhere," Eisenstein wrote. "Countless standard histories of Western philosophy, religion, and science, of political and economic theory, of historiography, literature or the fine arts pass over the topic entirely." I could not at first fathom why Eisenstein wrote with such argumentative fervor tinged with defensiveness, justifying the idea of an "unacknowledged revolution," until I read the reaction to her thesis from other historians. She ruffled academic feathers.
Without deliberate study of print and its consequences, present-day society would be ill-equipped to understand the transition away from the dominance of text and into what follows. I don't know what Eisenstein, whom we lost in 2016, would think of me declaring the closing of the Gutenberg Parenthesis; I imagine she would disapprove. I tried to tempt her to engage in historical heresy and speculate about the transition we are navigating today. She refused, demurring that she was not very connected herself, as she complained about her grandchildren buried in their laptops on her couch. "I don't think historians make good futurologists," she said. Well, no one does. Still, I say Eisenstein's work and the field she inspired are invaluable today so we may examine how society used and reacted to the press as we decide how to use and design the agent of change that follows. Hence, this book.
There were, to be sure, books about books before Eisenstein. Joseph Moxon published the first manual for printers in 1683; I found it and 1866's The American Printer as well as 1913's The American Handbook of Printing useful for trying to visualize the intricacies of printing's methods and for understanding its rich jargon. In 1825, Thomas Curson Hansard wrote a detailed overview of the progress of printing as technology in Typographia; it is a history, a manual, and a tribute to type. Isaiah Thomas wrote his state-by-state survey of the growth of printing in the United States, The History of Printing in America, in 1874. Lawrence Wroth wrote The Colonial Printer for the Grolier Club in 1938 and assisted Hellmut Lehmann-Haupt in writing The Book in America in 1939. The next year, Aloys Ruppel published a definitive history of Gutenberg's life and work in German: Johannes Gutenberg: Sein Leben und Sein Werk. Ruppel, founder of the Gutenberg Yearbook, campaigned to have Mainz' university—closed by the French in 1798 and reopened after World War II—named the Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz. Ruppel was followed as biographer by typographer Albert Kapr with his Johann Gutenberg: The Man and his Invention in 1996, then by Stephan Füssel, who holds the Gutenberg chair at Gutenberg University and has written many excellent books, including Gutenberg, Gutenberg and the Impact of Printing, and a beautiful facsimile edition of a Gutenberg Bible. Broadening to a wider timeframe and social perspective were Douglas McMurtrie's The Book from 1943, S.H. Steinberg's Five Hundred Years of Printing from 1955, and Warren Chappell's A Short History of the Printed Word from 1972; all are delightful surveys of the history of printing as a mechanism. And on top of this, there were histories of typography (see particularly D.B. Updike's 1922 Printing Types), and biographies of printers and publishers (see 1927's The Unspeakable Curll as well as countless hagiographic histories of publishing houses). In 1958, Lucien Febvre and Henri-Jean Martin (the latter took over the work when the former died) published their groundbreaking L'Apparition du Livre in French; it was translated into English as The Coming of the Book in 1976. And, of course, there was McLuhan and his muse, Harold Innes. Each of these authors and their books has been invaluable to me in my study of the history of books. None fully satisfied Eisenstein. For none connected print with the momentous social movements and phenomenon that followed—except perhaps McLuhan, who irritated her.
In 1968, after years of research, Eisenstein tried out her theories about the impact of printing on Western society and thought in a paper she labeled "a preliminary report." In it, she all but ignored Gutenberg and his completely undocumented Mainz work, as "it seems almost prudent to bypass so problematic an event.... I am skipping over the perfection of a new process for printing with movable types and will take as my point of departure, instead, the large-scale utilization of this process."2 She cared much more about the use of the technology than the technology itself, a perspective that was possible given the time that had lapsed. Today, we see the story of the internet as a story of technology; eventually, we will understand it better as the story of society's use of it.
In her preliminary report, Eisenstein began to catalogue an impressive litany of changes associated with print, calling for further study of each. She examined "new occupational groups, workshops, techniques, trade networks, and products unknown anywhere in Europe before the mid-fifteenth century and found in every regional center by the early sixteenth century." She was fascinated by how printing "brought metalworkers and merchants into contact with schoolmen" as authors and scholars worked side-by-side with compositors and pressmen in the inky, noisy, crowded, and intellectually stimulating space of the print shop. She examined the nascent capitalism of the book trade, as book production left the Church for private enterprise; at how the industry shifted from retail (one book/one scribe/one patron/much time) to wholesale, through booksellers; how production began in university towns and moved to commercial centers; how the trade spawned fairs and commercial networks; how privileges and monopolies affected early investment.
Education evolved as students could now read silently rather than just being read to. That, in turn, changed conceptions of youth as book-learning could replace learning by doing in apprenticeship and would "gradually become the focus of daily life during childhood, adolescence, and early manhood." Scholarship changed profoundly, Eisenstein noted, as books, now so numerous, could travel to their readers. Scholars could examine duplicate texts, review each other's work, and collaborate on research. "Once old texts came together within the same study, diverse systems of ideas and special disciplines could be combined," she wrote. Scientists could share and compare data. That is all well and good, but at the same time, as old texts were printed anew, alchemists' formulae and myths could find new adherents. "When 'technology went to press,' so too did a vast backlog of occult lore, and few readers could discriminate between the two," she said. In its beginnings, print became a medium for the distribution of misinformation alongside information.
"Typographical fixity," Eisenstein asserted in her paper, "is a basic prerequisite for the rapid advancement of learning." Eisenstein was careful to caution—and this will become relevant shortly, when we hear from her critics—that printers could make or replicate errors and that trust in the consistency of printing would take time to develop. But the fact that Erasmus or other printed authors could issue errata "demonstrated a new capacity to locate textual errors with precision and to transmit this information simultaneously to scattered readers." That is one means by which text began to take on authority. Standardization of print also led to standardization of activities in other fields, as the secrets of a craft or trade could be learned from a book. And it led to standardization of behaviors: norms around households, child-rearing, and schooling. Fixity affected language. "Typography arrested linguistic drift, enriched as well as standardized vernaculars, and paved the way for more deliberate purification and codification of all major European languages.... The duplication of vernacular primers and translations contributed in other ways to nationalism." Eisenstein was equally interested in the preservative power of print. At first, print was utilized to conserve and protect the knowledge of the ancients, as humanists desired. Then print became for all a means of storing knowledge. It even promised authors a path to immortality. When she and I spoke, Eisenstein mocked my digital storage—my old, obsolete floppy disks with no means to read them—next to Gutenberg's Bible, which was still legible after half a millennium.
In her preliminary report, Eisenstein listed so many more upshots of the introduction of printing. It would help "permanently atomize Western Christendom." It would subvert old hierarchies. It would create a reading public and a thirst for news. It would make law more "visible and irrevocable." It led not only to copyright but to other means of "staking claims to inventions, discoveries, and creations." It also led to means of control: censorship, licensing, lists of banned books, and destruction of books. Print enforced a stronger view of individuality (solitary writer and silent reading), of authorship, and eventually fame. As individual authority rose, she said, "new forms of personal authorship helped to subvert old concepts of collective authority." With a loss of old institutions of authority, there arose the need to establish new institutions to assure reliability: licensing authorities, university presses, and publishing brands. "But new forms of scurrilous gossip, erotic fantasy, idle pleasure-seeking, and freethinking were also linked" to printing, Eisenstein wrote. "Like piety, pornography assumed new forms." Printing helped fuel the scientific revolution. Printing led to writers creating fictional worlds in novels. "It should be noted that printers served not only pedants and scientists but composers and painters, gourmets and gardeners, connoisseurs and aesthetes as well."
All of that and more comes from Eisenstein's fifty-page essay, her preliminary report. In her two-volume, 700-page magnum opus that followed eleven years later, she examined print's relationship with the Reformation and the Renaissance and its ties with the development of science in greater detail. She expanded her catalogue of print's import.3

Not everyone agreed. McLuhan himself reviewed The Printing Press as an Agent of Change with a heavy dose of critical snark: "Many readers will find the two volumes of Professor Eisenstein no less of an impenetrable thicket of recondite annotation than that which confronts the readers of the Holy Book."4 Eisenstein's snipes at McLuhan might have hurt, though as a provocateur he was hardly unaccustomed to disagreement and criticism.
McLuhan coined aphorisms, probed ideas, and issued bold pronouncements that often befuddle but then, upon consideration, often age well. The pundit adored puns: "The instance of the electric light may prove illuminating," he quipped in Understanding Media. Then he decreed: "The electric light is pure information."5 What? I have long puzzled over that particular McLuhanism. Lately, an odd story from late-fifteenth-century Florence has helped me better grasp what he was saying.
Here is the tale of a convent bell that was tried, convicted, arrested, sentenced to fifty years in exile outside the city walls of Florence, stripped of its clapper, then paraded through streets in shame on an ass-drawn cart while being flogged by a hangman. The bell's crime: It was hammered upon to summon help by followers of firebrand Dominican friar Girolama Savonarola, he of the bonfire of the vanities, when they were set upon by their enemies, the Arrabbiati (angry ones) and Compagnacci (rude or ugly companions), who stormed the church and convent of San Marco, calling for his death. City fathers intervened on the side of the protestors, arrested Savonarola, and two weeks later burned him at the stake.
In a fascinating paper in Renaissance Quarterly, Daniel Zolli and Christopher Brown explained that the arrest of the bell was not satire but instead the city's effort to punish Savonarola's convent and deprive its brothers of their voice. The bell, called the Piagnona or wailing woman, "was not only an emblem of institutional pride, but the very means by which San Marco governed space and participated in the collective life of the commune. Requisitioning the bell would thus strip the brothers of their ability to assert authority, locally and in the soundscape more generally."6 As Johan Huizinga further explained in Autumntide of the Middle Ages, "In daily life the bells were like cautionary good spirits, whose well-known voice tolled sorrow, tolled joy, tolled rest, tolled unrest, then summoning, then warning. They were known by familiar names: Fat Jacqueline, the Great Bell Roland; one knew the difference between sounding and tolling. Despite the excess of bell-ringing, people were not insensitive to the sound."7
The bell was a medium. The medium was its message. The electric light is a medium. "It is a medium without a message," McLuhan said. "The 'content' of any medium is always another medium. The content of writing is speech, just as the written word is the content of print, and print is the content of the telegraph." McLuhan carried the lesson forward: "Let us return to the electric light. Whether the light is being used for brain surgery or night baseball is a matter of indifference. It could be argued that these activities are in some way the 'content' of the electric light, since they could not exist without the electric light. This fact merely underlines the point that 'the medium is the message' because it is the medium that shapes and controls the scale and form of human association and action."8 The idea that a medium can "shape and control the scale and form of human association and action" is what animates Eisenstein's study of how movable type made possible—did not preordain or cause or even catalyze but made possible—the Reformation and the Scientific Revolution, as the electric light makes possible McLuhan's more prosaic examples, brain surgery and night baseball.
Understanding San Marco's bell as a medium represents the aurality of its age as the light bulb represents the visual nature of the electric age. Media scholar Walter Ong, a McLuhan contemporary, studied the shift from orality to literacy. Ong was fascinated by sound. "Sound exists only when it is going out of existence. It is not simply perishable but essentially evanescent and it is sensed as evanescent," he wrote. "There is no way to stop sound and have sound." Ong examined the implications of oral culture, starting with the idea that because "knowledge that is not repeated aloud soon vanishes, oral societies must invest great energy in saying over and over again what has been learned arduously over the ages. This need establishes a highly traditionalist or conservative set of mind that with good reason inhibits intellectual experimentation. Knowledge is hard to come by and precious, and society regards highly those wise old men and women who specialize in conserving it, who know and can tell the stories of the days of old." Then new technologies intervened. "By storing knowledge outside the mind, writing and, even more, print downgrade the figures of the wise old man and the wise old woman, repeaters of the past, in favor of younger discoverers of something new."9
Ong marked the beginning of his own Parenthesis at the transition from speech to writing. "More than any other single invention," he declared, "writing has transformed human consciousness." Oral cultures taught via apprenticeships. Written culture with manuals. Oral cultures had no dictionaries and little interest in definitions. Print "fostered the desire to legislate for 'correctness' in language." Oral cultures depended upon community knowledge: "When a speaker is addressing an audience, the members of the audience normally become a unity, with themselves and the speaker." On the other hand, "writing and print isolate." Writing "separates the knower from the known and thus sets up conditions for 'objectivity' in the sense of personal disengagement or distancing." Print, he said, marked the development of personal privacy and with it modern society. Print further "created a new sense of the private ownership of words.... Typography had made the word into a commodity. The old communal oral world had been split into privately claimed freeholdings." Echoing Tom Pettitt in his description of the Gutenberg Parenthesis, Ong believed that print "encourages a sense of closure," that is, of containment.10
Then came the post-typographic, electronic era, which Ong said leads us to a new age of secondary orality—thus a return to what came before writing and print (without losing the impact of either). "Secondary orality generates a sense for groups immeasurably larger than those of primary oral culture—that is, McLuhan's 'global village.' " In this electric time, "the audience is absent, invisible, inaudible."11 In the next section of this book, I will ask whether we might now reverse that process, making individuals and communities visible and heard and granting them identities distinct from media's creation, the mass.
Writing and printing and the computer resulted in the technologizing of the word, Ong said. He was not complaining. "Technologies are artificial, but—paradox again—artificiality is natural to human beings. Technology, properly interiorized, does not degrade human life but on the contrary enhances it.... Such shaping of a tool to oneself, learning a technological skill, is hardly dehumanizing. The use of a technology can enrich the human psyche, enlarge the human spirit, intensify its interior life."12 How long did it take for humans to interiorize writing and its tools? How long will it take for us to interiorize the computer and the network?
McLuhan contended that tools are extensions of our minds and bodies in oh, so many quotable lines, which I will stitch together here. First, here is McLuhan on media as the extension of man: "Man the tool-making animal, whether in speech or in writing or in radio, has long been engaged in extending one or another of his sense organs."13 "With the arrival of electric technology, man extended, or set outside himself, a live model of the central nervous system itself."14 "Physiologically, man in the normal use of technology (or his variously extended body) is perpetually modified by it and in turn finds ever new ways of modifying his technology. Man becomes, as it were, the sex organs of the machine world, as the bee of the plant world, enabling it to fecundate and to evolve ever new forms. The machine world reciprocates man's love by expediting his wishes and desires, namely, in providing him with wealth."15
McLuhan on humanity's relationship with media: "Print is the technology of individualism."16 "Because of its action in extending our central nervous system, electric technology seems to favor the inclusive and participational spoken word over the specialist written word. Our Western values, built on the written word, have already been considerably affected by the electric media of telephone, radio, and TV. Perhaps that is the reason why many literate people in our time find it difficult to examine this question without getting into a moral panic."17 "To raise a moral panic about this is like cussing a buzz-saw for lopping off fingers."18 "When print was new, it created a new environment called the public. There had never been a public before printing."19 "Perhaps also the ability to see one's mother tongue in uniform and repeatable technological dress creates in the individual reader a feeling of unity and power that he shares with all other readers of that tongue."20 "Socially, typographic extension of man brought in nationalism, industrialism, mass markets, and universal literacy and education. For print presented an image of repeatable precision."21 "The message of the print and of typography is primarily that of repeatability."22
McLuhan on media and technology: "Every technology creates new stresses and needs in the human beings who have engendered it."23 "But the very nature of print creates two conflicting interests as between producers and consumers, and between rulers and the ruled. For print as a form of centrally organized mass-production ensures that the problem of 'freedom' will henceforth be paramount in all social and political discussion."24 "An age in rapid transition is one which exists on the frontier between two cultures and between conflicting technologies. Every moment of its consciousness is an act of translation of each of these cultures into the other."25 "Societies have always been shaped more by the nature of the media by which humans communicate than by the content of the communication."26 "Any understanding of social and cultural change is impossible without a knowledge of the way media work as environments."27
Lord, if only McLuhan had had Twitter, imagine the havoc he could have caused. He is often credited with having predicted the internet in 1962, though his grandson, Andrew McLuhan, debunked that belief, finding his oft-quoted prophecy was two quotes—one about the successor to television, one about the abilities of the computer—issued thirty-two years apart and stitched together.28 "McLuhan was no prophet, nor did he mean to be one," wrote James Morrison. "McLuhan always focused on What Is, and therein lies his value; he gave us a heuristic by means of which we could examine what is, so as to determine for ourselves what should be.... Those who embrace McLuhan as a visionary, or patron saint, of the electronic future are thus just as misled as those for whom he represents a cultural Antichrist."29 Though he was fascinated by the electric present, one should not assume he liked it. Morrison recalled: "McLuhan once said to his friend and colleague Tom Langan, while watching television, 'Do you really want to know what I think of that thing? If you want to save one shred of Hebrao-Greco-Roman-Medieval-Renaissance-Enlightenment-Modern-Western civilization, you'd better get an ax and smash all the sets.' "30 He saw himself as an ecologist of media, studying the environments they created and the transitions between them.
McLuhan did see the Gutenberg Parenthesis closing but attributed its end to the electric wire rather than the network cable. "We are today as far into the electric age as the Elizabethans had advanced into the typographical and mechanical age," he wrote in 1962.31 In a compilation of his provocations, The Book of Probes, he said: "Today we experience, in reverse, what pre-literate man faced with the advent of writing."32 And: "We look at the present through a rear-view mirror. We march backwards into the future."33 The problem with judging one's environment is that one may not be aware of it except from outside. That is why McLuhan saw the emergence of electricity—and I see the emergence of the more disruptive internet—as a golden opportunity to judge where we have been and decide where we should go.
McLuhan had no scarcity of critics. Gwenyth Jackaway told The New York Times in 2000 that she lost a faculty war at Fordham University over appointing a McLuhanite as a tenured professor. "But I guess you could say McLuhan has influenced my work: I have been spending the last fifteen years trying to prove him wrong." In the same Times reappraisal of McLuhan, Neil Postman said: "I would say McLuhan was a great thinker, but I wouldn't say he was a great scholar, because I don't think he had the patience to work out some of the implications of what he was saying. McLuhan's questions were generally more interesting than his answers." And that was the point of him. McLuhan inspired the creation of the Media Ecology Association, filled with his acolytes. He inspired Eisenstein—like a grain of sand in an oyster—to found the field of book history, and she told me, "I owe so much to McLuhan." As do I.

Eisenstein and McLuhan each were accused of technological determinism, of decreeing that technology's path and outcome were inevitable. Said McLuhan: "Print technology created the public. Electric technology created the mass."34 John Dewey quoted Carlyle—"Invent the printing press and democracy is inevitable"—and then added: "Invent the railways, the telephone, mass manufacture and concentration of population in urban centers, and some form of democratic government is humanly speaking inevitable."35 I disagree. So, I think, would Eisenstein, who took pains at the start of The Printing Press as an Agent of Change to point out her choice of the indefinite article in the title. She did not proclaim that printing alone brought on the Reformation, the Scientific Revolution, or the Enlightenment. Instead, she held that printing was given insufficient attention as a factor in these momentous societal movements.
I tire of the quarrels around technological determinism for I, too, have been painted with that brush when I have asserted that the net can, if we try, help bring positive benefits to society. Yet some of the people who accuse me can themselves be heard claiming that technology is bound to ruin society—a clearer example of technological determinism, I cannot imagine. Determinism robs the public of its agency, its choices, its responsibility, credit, and blame. Another form of the deterministic debate comes from those who wish to turn the causality around, contending that print did not cause literacy but instead that literacy caused print—implying that once the necessary conditions and societal and market demands were in place, someone had to invent print. "A vigorous book-using culture was the precursor to the invention of printing rather than its consequence," said M.T. Clanchy.36 In that view, who invented movable type becomes neither here nor there.
A substitution of verbs would be helpful. Rather than saying that printing "led to" or "caused" change, it is in any case more accurate to say that it (or the net) "preceded" or perhaps "enabled" or even "made possible" change. Things happen; coincidences and confluences occur; dependencies exist. Print did not cause the Reformation. But without print, one may wonder whether Martin Luther could have met the fate of his predecessor in reform, Jan Hus. Without the press and its power and the attention and support it could gather, Hus died for his heresy, burned at the stake. Print did not cause the Scientific Revolution but without it, it surely would have taken much more effort and time for pioneering scientists to share and compare data, methods, and questions. The press did not cause the Renaissance or the Enlightenment but was a tool put to use by scholars and creators in the course of their work. The internet and social media did not cause America's racism but does make it more visible. Technology is a tool that can be put to use in no end of ways; that is a tautological statement. Certainly any tool can be used—or deliberately designed—to do what will end up being good or bad, to encourage speech or trolling, to spread information or disinformation, to educate or addict, depending on the motives of the designer or consequences designers do not anticipate. The point here is that without the tool, some activities are not possible or are at least more difficult. So the tool deserves study for the uses to which it is put and the impact those uses may have. That is Eisenstein's cause.
Eisenstein was also attacked for her counterposing of scribal culture and print culture. Joseph Dane, a self-confessed polemicist, titled his book in opposition: The Myth of Print Culture. His search for the phrase "print culture" in the Modern Language Association Bibliography found only two references before 1980—from Eisenstein and Ong—and steady growth thereafter. He argued that Eisenstein never defined the term (though one might counter that her entire book attempts to do just that). "Studies with the announced subject 'print culture' generally begin with the assumption that such a thing as print culture has real existence, and it is the business of scholarship to discover what that thing is or how it is manifested in terms of some specific historical subject matter," Dane wrote, adding that "what exists is not print culture at all but rather the modern scholar's invocation of print culture." It is, he and the foes of print culture contend, an imposition from current perspective on the past.37 Eisenstein's chief critic, Adrian Johns, declared at the start of his The Nature of the Book that to claim the existence of a print culture "is substantially false." In his interpretation, Eisenstein's thesis relies upon print's standardization, dissemination, and fixity, and he questioned each characteristic of early books.38 Johns maintained that print in its early days was unreliable as much of it was error-prone and readers could not be sure of a book's source and whether it was the product of piracy—thus, print could not be taken as credible and could not be the foundation of a culture named after it.
Eisenstein was careful again and again to recognize the many pitfalls on the way to print culture. "One reason why early-modern trends are peculiarly confusing to the historian of science is that many charlatans and pseudo-scientists were eager publicity-hounds, and many gifted professionals clung to habits shaped by scribes," she wrote. "It took time before the magician could be distinguished from the scientist by his refusal to disclose all that was known about his arts, by his 'smoky' style, and by his reluctance to frame his theories in a form where they could be only tested and accepted or rejected."39 Eisenstein acknowledged that scribal culture—and handwritten manuscripts themselves—continued their existence and influence for some time after the introduction of movable type. She recognized and often said that early print was not reliable, standard, and fixed. And she looked at print not as deterministic in the behavior of scientists and scholars but instead recognized their agency and their creation of a print culture based on the attributes they valued.
To my reading, Johns' disagreements with Eisenstein were largely over timing and scale. He said it took a long time for print to acquire the characteristics Eisenstein attributed to it. While she studied the spread of print across all Europe, he studied England—which in many ways was an anomalous laggard in the spread of print through Europe. His argument was that if the impact of print was not consistent in every country it reached then it throws doubt on the logic of overarching print culture. Many critics were exasperated by their academic feud, contending correctly that their books were complementary, each valuable. Johns' examination of the Stationers' Company—the body licensed by government to in turn license and control the content and business of print in England—is exhaustive and impressive. It is a pity that he turned petty in his criticism of Eisenstein. In a 2002 debate between Eisenstein and Johns brought together in The American Historical Review, he called her contribution "strongly felt" and a "polemic" and sniped that "not all of Eisenstein's readings are so readily intelligible."40
Agent of Change: Print Culture Studies after Elizabeth Eisenstein, a festschrift about Eisenstein's work published in 2007, expressed a concern I share: "Today it is impossible not to suspect strong gender as well as other biases behind the kinds of comments aimed at her major work. Thirty-five, or even twenty-five, years ago, Eisenstein was a member of a pioneering generation of female scholars in a male-dominated academy, not to mention field (history). These women often faced hostility at worst and condescension at best in their professional lives. If her tone was strident, undoubtedly it needed to be to make her voice heard. When her book appeared, several reviewers insisted (pointedly?) on calling her 'Miss' or 'Mrs.' rather than 'Professor' or 'Dr.' Eisenstein. If she was pugnacious and combative in writing, in reality Elizabeth Eisenstein was a wife and mother who was attempting to build a career through half-time positions, the sort to which many female academics were then consigned."41 Eisenstein's real sin was daring to criticize the state of her field, history, for paying too little attention to the impact of print in their theories of the Early Modern period. As Johns put it in 2002: "She mounted a relentless, cumulative indictment of the profession's alleged failure to come to grips with the impact of Johannes Gutenberg's invention."42 And so some struck back. Historians do not easily forget slights.
In the introduction to the American Historical Review debate, Princeton Professor Anthony Grafton paid full-throated tribute to her. "No one did more to make this new field take shape than Elizabeth L. Eisenstein," he wrote. "Eisenstein's book provoked widespread debate. It also helped to inspire a generation of younger scholars to integrate the history of books and readers into the study of intellectual and cultural history—a generational change that is currently reshaping the historiography of all three movements that Eisenstein examined."43
Frans Janssen drew a useful map of the larger debate in the field, separating so-called French and Anglo-Saxon schools of book history. The French school "studies printing and its role in social and economic history in particular and examines the book as an agent of social processes." The Anglo-Saxon school, also called new bibliography, "takes as its point of departure the analytic study of the physical products of printing, the books ... the study of the book as material object."44 In other words, impact for the French school vs. object for the Anglo-Saxon.
The French school began with Febvre and Martin and their influential L'apparition du livre. It was an early and useful survey of book history. Harvard librarian Robert Darnton is, according to Janssen, "the pearl in the crown of the French school." In 1979 Darnton published The Business of Enlightenment, a painstakingly detailed study of the business of Diderot's Encyclopédie. In 1982, Darnton wrote the well-known essay "What is the History of Books?" in which he celebrated the field as a vital new discipline. He defined its purpose as understanding "how ideas were transmitted through print and how exposure to the printed word affected the thought and behavior of mankind during the last five hundred years." He also saw the field as the study of a revolution in reading: the Leserevolution. Darnton's charge to book scholars: "The lines of research could lead in many directions, but they all should issue ultimately in a larger understanding of how printing has shaped man's attempts to make sense of the human condition."45 And then there is Eisenstein, whom Janssen said "shows herself to be more French than the French: all movements of the second half of the fifteenth century and those of the sixteenth century—Renaissance, Reformation, scientific revolution—find their origin in the printing press."46
At the beginning of her book, Eisenstein took a swipe at the Anglo-Saxon school, acknowledging the literature devoted to the history of printing, "although much of it seems to be written by and for specialists—custodians of rare books and other librarians; experts on typography or bibliography, literary scholars concerned with press-variants, and the like."47 An exemplar of this Anglo-Saxon school is Princeton Librarian Paul Needham, whom we met earlier through his atomic-level analysis of Gutenberg's inks, pages, and watermarks and his theory of Gutenberg's stereotyped slugs. Another is his Princeton Library colleague, curator of rare books Eric Marshall White, who published a lush volume, Editio princeps: A History of the Gutenberg Bible, which tells the unique stories of every known Gutenberg Bible extant.48
Needham sniffed that Febvre and Martin's book of the French school was "a cut-and-paste compilation from non-authoritative secondary sources" and was "far from being pathbreaking for its time."49 Darnton swiped back at the Anglo-Saxons, lamenting that "in the United States, book history has been relegated to library schools and rare book collections. Step into any rare book room"—such as where Needham and White work—"and you will find aficionados savoring bindings, epigones contemplating watermarks, érudits preparing editions of Jane Austen; but you will not run across any ordinary, meat-and-potatoes historian attempting to understand the book as a force in history."50 Needham, in turn, went after Eisenstein's book, calling it "ignorant of the history of printing," "a work essentially and fundamentally inaccurate," with "very little idea of what early printed books look like, how they were produced, how they were distributed."51 In the book-history analog of "why can't we all just get along" Janssen wondered, rightly: "One would think that the two approaches supplement one another and thus enrich the field of study, but the practitioners of the various disciplines engage in polemics with one another, delivering not only teasing blows but even insults."52
And so it goes, too, with the infant study of the internet: whether its impact is deterministic, whether it is fundamentally beneficial or injurious, whether it should be studied as a technology that leads people down a path or as a tool people control to their own good or bad ends. If we imagine scholars holding such a debate over the essence of print in 1480, they'd have been debating books without title pages and page numbers, a century and a half before the invention of the modern novel and essay and newspaper, before the Reformation and the Enlightenment. This is why I contend that we do not yet know what the net is until we—our descendants, actually—learn what can be done with it. This is why I say this is a moment of choice. And that is why I say we would do well to look back as we venture forth.







PART III
Leaving the Parenthesis

 
It becomes more feasible to map the contours of print culture as we depart its age. This, I believe, is what McLuhan would have us understand with his notion of media ecology: Envision a bug-eyed, gasping, cartoon fish, leaping out of the sea, looking down at what it left behind, and exclaiming: "Oh, that's water." Is there such a thing as print culture? It is difficult to argue that society was not eventually enveloped in the environment of print, seeing the world through its lenses of order, linearity, containment, authority, posterity, voice, and scale.
In trying to understand the culture of print, I value the book historians of the Anglo-Saxon school, scholars who forensically study print as material technology, because in the early days of digital, we still view the internet primarily as technology and need to examine its affordances. I value Eisenstein and the French school because eventually, the machinery fades into the background and what matters is what is made with it. Then text as text becomes more important than type as type. We have not yet reached that stage in the net's incunabular age. We are still complaining about what technology does to us more than exploiting what we can do with it. We are still too busy in our futile quest to fill the net with what the people of the Gutenberg Parenthesis call content. We cannot yet see all the net's possibilities because we are bound by a past, a print culture whose worldview still holds us with its presumptions of fixity and finality, property and purpose, centrality and control. We need to understand that culture and its history to escape its bounds and explore what may follow.
Print and print culture will not die. The manuscript and certainly the scribe continued for centuries after Gutenberg—arguably until the typewriter. Everything society learned in the transition from spoken word to written was retained in the shift from written to typeset word. Everything we learned in the era of print will continue into the age of the network. We do not yet know what the new epoch will hold because we are only now beginning to create it.
Having examined the theory of the Gutenberg Parenthesis, the transition into it and its progress and meaning, now we come to think about what might follow as we build that future. Technology does not determine the choices we make, else they would not be choices. We have decisions to weigh, and I will examine some of them, still in the context of print's history. I will ask us to consider the net not as a container for content but more as a conduit for conversation. I will look at the opportunities of serving identity, individuality, and community over the mass. I will examine the tension between expression and control. And I will ask how institutions must adapt, whether some should die, and what should be created in their absence. Finally, I will ponder the fate of the book.







17
Conversation vs. Content
All culture is conversation.
— Neil Postman1

Society is relearning how to hold a conversation with itself. After more than 500 years, we are well out of practice. Consensus holds that the public conversation today is in shambles: nasty, brutish, uninformed, overwhelming, and loud—a waste of bits, pixels, and breath. Misinformation, disinformation, harassment, and hate are far too prevalent, that is true. Yet at the same time, voices unrepresented and unheard in mass media finally have their venue in the internet. The edge-to-edge, anyone-to-anyone nature of the net enables conversation and community otherwise impossible, which is how I have met, befriended, and learned from people around the world, representing a broad assembly of interests, disciplines, and experiences. I celebrate that.
I acknowledge that it is easier for me to embrace interaction on the net than it is for some. I am a privileged, older, white man with a tenured post who is public, able to hold my own against at least garden-variety trolls. That is not always the case for prominent women, people of color, and the vulnerable who suffer concerted attacks against them without adequate controls in social-media networks. Disinformation and campaigns of manipulation are a plague on the internet and on democracy. In my school, I have raised money—including from internet companies—to fund others' efforts to combat disinformation through research, fact-checking, education, and journalism. I have urged executives at the major internet companies to recognize the moral and social imperative to detect and counteract manipulation, to build in the protections that internet optimists thought were unnecessary, and to assure sufficient support and accountability to their users and the public. And I have been to countless conferences on disinformation. From that, I can attest that legions of brilliant, caring people are tackling these issues on the internet.
But it is important to recognize that many of the problems attributed to the internet are ultimately human problems, our failings. We bring to the net a long, unbroken history of racism, misogyny, mistrust, and fear. The net did not suddenly teach us to hate. Turn off the internet tomorrow and the hate will still burn. Michael Bang Petersen, a political psychologist, said that "the biggest echo chamber that we all live in is the one we live in in our everyday lives." In his research, he concluded that the internet bursts that real-life bubble, exposing people to those they dislike, and giving them the ammunition and means to fire.2 If we tackle the circumstances that allow bad behavior—as we should—and even if we succeed at mitigating it, we still must address the underlying prejudice that causes it. If we concentrate only on stamping out bad content, at best we end up with a slightly less-bad internet. At worst, the freedoms the net brings to all could be diminished. As a First Amendment-defending American, I feel a chill in my soul when regulators in the UK, Europe, and elsewhere attack what they call "harmful speech." I am all for publishers or platforms setting standards and deciding what they should and should not carry; that is their right and responsibility. But when government considers forcing them to take down ill-defined "legal but harmful speech" in the UK or to carry certain noxious political speech, as right-wing politicians threaten in the US, I worry that the sanctity of freedom of expression—online, in print, or out loud—is breached.
Whatever happened to conversation? Did Gutenberg kill public conversation when he pressed it into books? Did steam and machines doom it when they made media mass and monolithic? Did the public square find its zenith in the coffeehouse, declining ever since? Did Montaigne turn outward-facing dialogue into inward-facing contemplation in his Essays? Did media convert conversation into a private good, a commodity for sale? Does social media do likewise, only at greater scale? Was the public conversation just fine until the internet came and bred its trolls? Or was Plato right in the first place that writing would be our ruin?
One could blame Gutenberg. For all the wealth of speech he made possible, he also set media on a path toward containment. That is the moral of the Gutenberg Parenthesis. Yet, as I will recount in this chapter—with illustrations from Utopia and utopian visions of the coffeehouse—media remained conversational long after Gutenberg: author to author, author to public, and sometimes even public to author. The death blow to the public conversation was likely struck at the turn of the twentieth century, when media were mechanized, electrified, and industrialized. Then print was produced not by hand but on steam-powered presses and typesetting machines, distributed by steam-powered locomotives, and fed from around the nation and the world by the electric telegraph. Next came yet more massive media: radio and television. Even before the internet, electronics transformed typesetting from a human art into a cold, computerized process, and satellites sent facsimiles of entire pages to printing presses anywhere, allowing the creation of national newspapers across the breadth of America.
Audience was no longer circumscribed by muscle: how many pages could be pulled off a press and how far a horse could carry them in a day. Now the potential reach of media was unlimited. Media became mass. The industry was transformed by its scale, its economy built on best-sellers and blockbusters. Corporations ruled. What had been the public conversation carried out in pages of print became commercialized and commodified, represented vestigially by the performative proxy of the talk show or letters to the editor. The conversation became content.
Media think they are in the business of manufacturing the product they call content. Media companies now appoint "chief content officers" instead of editors. Writers are judged by quotas: how much content they produce, how many clicks and likes and minutes of attention their written widgets attract, and how many people open their wallets to become subscribers, to buy content from behind paywalls. Content is a concept from inside the Gutenberg Parenthesis: that which fills things. Content is a passive word, as is audience, for those who consume it.3 Content is a commodity. Now it is no longer scarce. It is abundant, unlimited. Thus, it has lost its value.
Even in the industrialized age of scale, scarcity still defined media. Everyone could listen but only so many could speak. The power of the press was the power to decide who had a voice in media's finite space and time. Then came the internet, which tore open media's container. Now anyone and everyone connected can speak—including experts and artists and voices new to media, but also fools and jerks, letting loose pent-up frustration, fear, anger, hatred, and idiocy for the sake of hearing themselves. Because of the fools, media dismiss the internet as an irredeemable gutter. But when they do so, they turn their backs on the many voices who were for too long not heeded in the public conversation because they were not represented in the book lists and newsrooms and writers' rooms controlled by the proprietors of mass media.
One camp demands that the internet be cleaned up, polished and packaged and made like media. Another camp objects when their speech is criticized or rejected as harmful or hateful; they claim to be the victims of censorship: cancel culture. We all hold our ears at the din and wonder what can be done. Since the rise of Trumpists, Brexiteers, and populists around the world, huge resources have been poured into hiring tens of thousands of content moderators, writing machine-learning algorithms, passing laws, and building regulatory bureaucracies to rid the internet, if not the world, of lies and idiocy, fake news and disinformation. What a fool's occupation.
Too little has been invested in the more fruitful task, to build the institutions needed to help us sift through this grand abundance of speech, to find that and whom are worth hearing, to enable listening and learning. The institution created to do just that after Gutenberg unleashed his abundance of speech—the institution of media—has, decades along, proven itself inadequate to the task on the net. The old filters don't work. The worthy don't necessarily have Harvard degrees or write for magazines and newspapers or share the lived experiences of those who control the press. There is so much to learn directly from experts and authorities and from people who live different lives. We need the means to discover their voices and support their creativity and conversation. And what of the trolls? We must learn to ignore them and certainly not to amplify them. Do not feed them.
Consider, then, the idea that the public conversation is just beginning to recover from half a millennium of creeping control by institutions, subjugation by the powerful, manipulation by malign actors, scarcity of voices, professionalization, and commercialization. It suffers, too, from overextended expectations of what a public sphere can be. We must beware nostalgia for a fabled past when deliberation was supposedly more rational, reasoned, informed, courtly, and constructive than it actually ever was. Realize, too, the damage media have done to the public conversation, setting us at each other's throats, pitting red vs. blue and black vs. white, simplifying the debate, erasing nuance, damaging communities, and amplifying the already powerful.
I propose to shift our focus away from the conversation we do not want to the conversation we do want, a conversation that finally includes those who had been excluded from mass media's version of public discourse. I delight at the noise of the conversation today, the diversity in it, the opportunity it presents to hold dialogue across boundaries. To extend McLuhan's already stretched bodily metaphors, now that all may speak, we have moved from the age of the ear (orality) to the eye (text) and now to the mouth (networked discourse). Our challenge is to bring our abilities together in coherent conversation, informed by what we hear and ask together. For if all speak and none listen, there is no dialogue; if we speak and listen while uninformed, conversation is futile. To put it in the terms of the Gutenberg Parenthesis, we would do well to recapture the conversation that was while exploring the conversation that can be.
Let us begin by examining the conversational nature of the early days of print. I have discussed how Luther used the press to enter disputatious dialogue with Erasmus, the pope, and the public. Galileo favored the structure of conversation in his writing—see his Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems, using print as a mechanism to explore theories, findings, and questions with colleagues (at the cost of his freedom). It could be said that Shakespeare conversed with Cervantes and Montaigne as they inspired his work. And Erasmus conversed via books and letters—and letters in books—with his friend Sir Thomas More, whose Utopia, published in 1516, is itself an example of the Renaissance culture of dialogue through the institution of the letter.

Utopia can be read "as a dialogical manifesto, a truly utopian embodiment of the friendly dialogue that humanists so highly regarded, and so often only represented—at a distance—through the technologies of writing and printing," wrote Dorothea Heitsch and Jean-François Vallée.4 By writing in dialogue, humanists honored the form favored by the ancient scholars they revered, Plato and Cicero, and set an example for productive and persuasive discourse. Dialogue presented a means to grapple with issues of authenticity and authority in the new and unsure territory of fiction, in a time of "distrust of imaginative literature, with its potentially seductive effect on the rational mind." Dialogue, explained Nina Chordas, enacted a "humanist outlook that believes in the perfectibility of man and values discourse as both a means of teaching and arriving at what is true."5
The web of dialogue around Utopia was many-layered. More's novel was an answer to Erasmus' Praise of Folly.6 Their exchange in print began with a letter from Erasmus to More at the start of Folly, dedicating the work to him and their friendship: "Coming out of Italy a while ago, on my way to England, I did not want to waste in idle talk and popular stories all the hours I had to sit on horseback, but chose at times to think over some topics from studies we share in common, or to enjoy my memories of friends.... Among them you, More, came first to mind."7 In Utopia, More responded to Erasmus' invitation to imagine the philosopher's republic of letters.8
As a book, Utopia took the form of a conversation among More; the character of his real-life friend, Antwerp humanist Peter Giles (who supervised the book's first printing); and the fictional traveler from Utopia, Raphael Hythloday. In addition, the book was introduced by actual letters from More to Giles and from Giles to Hieronymus van Busleyden, another humanist from the Netherlands. These were intended to add authority to the discussion and to promote it: blurbs of a sort. Early editions also carried verse written by others and additional letters—some commissioned by Erasmus—including More to the printer Johann Froben, publisher of an edition of Utopia; Erasmus to More; and Busleyden to More. These letters amount to what Vallée called "a complex ballet of written addresses." They played an important role in Utopia. It is odd that later editions and translations did not include all the letters,9 for in ignoring them, Peter Allen argued, editors showed they did not understand that "the world of Utopia becomes an incident in a long discussion; it is not a separate book but the central subject of the conversation—a lengthy anecdote told to a group of humanists, all of whom listen to it and comment on it."10 Said Vallée: "Thus, the whole editorial process leading to the publication of Utopia illustrates vividly how the circle of Northern humanists related to Erasmus made use of writing and of the technology of printing to further their aims of creating—at a distance—an international network of literate 'friends.' "11 They were not merely collaborating to help a friend publish his book. They were holding a conversation in and through that book.
These humanists believed in the value of dialogue "to represent reconciliation and order" and to dramatize "the movement of the individual into a wider circle of believers." So said Joseph Puterbaugh, who explained that the form also conveniently allowed the writer to "disguise the source of controversial opinions. By dramatizing voices, authors can deflect direct responsibility for provocative points of view, and place self-condemning speech into the mouths of opponents, a strategy as old as Plato and Lucian."12 More's choice of dialogue has confounded scholars trying to pin down his own opinions of the world he describes. Scholars have noted "Utopia's construction and utilization of a tension between reality and fiction, and the complex narrative that generates more than one point of view while simultaneously undermining the credibility of each," said Hanan Yoran.13 This ability to obfuscate was more than merely convenient in a time when one could be burned, behanded, or—in More's case—beheaded for one's words and beliefs.
Letter-writing as conversation over time and distance was a province of the elite until the sixteenth to eighteenth centuries, when the practice spilled over into middle classes as postal networks grew and letters commonly appeared in books and newspapers. Manuals teaching the proper epistolary form were published—in letter form, of course. The first in English was The Enemy of Idleness in 1568: "And to describe the true definition of an Epistle or letter, it is nothing else but an Oration written, conteining the mynde of the Orator or wryter ... the same that should be declared if they were present."14 This epistolary flowering marked a "writing revolution," declared Konstantin Dierks.15 That is, with letters, many more people than ever engaged in the practice of writing.
In Writing to the World, Rachael Scarborough King called the letter a bridge genre, which "facilitates change by providing writers and readers with paths across shifting media landscapes. Bridge genres connect old and new media: they transfer existing textual conventions to emerging modes of composition and circulation, a function that provides stability and continuity during what are otherwise times of fluctuation and reordering.... Bridge genres allow readers and writers to engage new media, experiment with current ones, and modify their expectations of the forms in which they encounter literature."16 The internet itself can be seen as a bridge genre, as journalists ape their familiar forms from print. Thus books, magazines, and newspapers are still recognizable as such on screens. Tweets sound like headlines. Blog posts resemble articles. Email, text messages, Facebook posts, and Instagram captions recall the model of the archaic and soon-obsolete letter.
Having written a letter-writing manual himself in 1741, printer Samuel Richardson took this most conversational form of writing and used it to tell the stories of Pamela; or, Virtue Rewarded in 1740, Clarissa: Or, the History of a Young Lady in 1748, and The History of Sir Charles Grandison in 1753. With his novels, Richardson claimed that he both coined and invented "writing to the moment," presenting letters as if written in current conversation—for example, if I were to say here that as I write these words, the time has come for me to go to dinner, so I will have to leave, and please pardon the interruption.... Richardson's conceit was that he was not the writer but the editor of these found troves of correspondence. He used his books to converse with readers, editing later editions with amendments in which he "responds to his correspondents' criticism and praise, or adds new letters to subsequent editions," said King. "He continually reinforces the readers' role as both correspondent and editor as he shows that the sequence of letter writing can always continue."17 He fought the bounds of the book as a fixed container and held a conversation with the world—or to put it in a more commercial sense, he corresponded with a market, responsive to public tastes.
Richardson had higher goals: He saw himself as an instructor not only in epistolary style but also in moral virtue, challenging "the Readers Judgment, Manners, Taste, Capacity." He believed, as newspaper publishers did, that printed letters would "lend his novel the appearance of objectivity."18 His novels and their letters were also convenient devices on which to hang his adages. Henry Fielding, author of Tom Jones, wrote his satire, Shamela, or An Apology for the Life of Mrs. Shamela Andrews, to mock Richardson's moralizing. Samuel Johnson fussed over Richardson's style: "Why, Sir, if you were to read Richardson for the story, your impatience would be so much fretted that you would hang yourself. But you must read him for the sentiment, and consider the story as only giving occasion to the sentiment."19 In 1755, Richardson published A Collection of the Moral and Instructive Sentiments, Maxims, Cautions, and Reflections that were contained in the letters in his novels as "the pith and marrow of nineteen volumes," all conveniently categorized and indexed. His extracted adages about wit and conversation seem to presage Twitter:

There is not so much Wit in wickedness as Rakes are apt to imagine.
The Wit of Libertines consists mostly of saying bold and shocking things, with such courage as shall make the modest blush, the impudent laugh, and the innocent stare.
Men who affect to be thought witty, are apt to treat the most serious subjects with levity.
Free-livers are apt to mistake wickedness for Wit.20

The conversational motif as well as the epistolary form eventually faded from print. François Rigolot blamed among others Montaigne for the "inward turn" he took in his Essays. Montaigne very much believed in the value of dialogue: "To my taste, the most fruitful and most natural exercise of our minds is conversation. I find the practice of it the most delightful activity of our lives."21 Upon the death of his dear friend and conversationalist, Etienne de la Boétie, Montaigne chose to hold a conversation with himself, in writing. "Their lively discussions are nostalgically alluded to in many passages of the Essais, which pass themselves off as poor substitutes for the highest form of a vanished dialogue," Rigolot explained. "Yet, Montaigne will try to preserve that dialogical dimension in his Essais, by bringing together contradictory opinions, making them wrestle with each other."22 Nina Chordas said Montaigne's turn inward, toward individuality, "gradually separated thought from the world of discourse. Without this grounding in speech as intrinsic to the process of reasoning, dialogue began to lose its raison d'être."23 Is this when print lost its conversational essence, with the evolution of the solitary, individual voice in soliloquy rather than dialogue?
In bringing his inner debates to print, Montaigne raised the stakes for joining the public conversation, requiring that one be a writer to be heard. That is, to share one's thoughts, even about oneself, necessitated the talent of writing as qualification. How many people today say they are intimidated setting fingers to keys for any written form—letter, email, memo, blog, social-media post, school assignment, story, book, anything—because they claim not to be writers, while all the internet asks them to be is a speaker? What voices were left out of the conversation because they did not believe they were qualified to write? How much of the rise of emoji and nonverbal memes can be attributed to a revolt against the imposition of standards of writing by teachers, editors, and grammarians who possess the skill and power? Are we thus exploding the limits of literacy? The greatest means of control of speech might not have been censorship or copyright or publishing but instead the intimidation of writing.
Or perhaps for Montaigne, conversation with readers was just a matter of style. "I know not anywhere the book that seems less written," said Ralph Waldo Emerson. "It is the language of conversation transferred to the book. Cut these words, and they would bleed; they are vascular and alive."24 Said Montaigne: "I speak to my paper as I speak to the first man I meet."25

Writing and conversation came together in a new institution built for the purpose: the coffeehouse. There, in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, especially in England, varied constituencies and classes gathered to drink the exciting, imported brew as they discussed what they read in newspapers, newsletters, and books. Jürgen Habermas theorized that the coffeehouses of England and salons of France were the birthplace of the bourgeois public sphere—in his definition as an inclusive society gathered to share private opinions publicly and to hold rational and critical debate over issues of common concern in the newly available commodity of news. Thus, he said, they established themselves as a public distinct from the state.
Habermas' thesis was challenged by, among others, a five-year academic collaboration called the Making Publics Project, organized by McGill University Shakespeare scholar Paul Yachnin.26 The project's academics focused not on a singular public sphere. Instead, they examined the creation of plural publics, "forms of association built on the shared interests, tastes, and desires of individuals, most of them ordinary 'private' people. The project argued that public making was enabled by new media and new cultural forms and was nested in an emerging market in cultural goods." They concluded that publics formed not only in coffeehouses and around news. Publics formed around books and pamphlets—as when Luther chose to publish in vernacular German, addressing and forming a public with his ideas. Publics formed in the Globe Theatre as an audience watched Hamlet, with Shakespeare "seemingly able to unite them as a group invited to think through a problem and to form a judgment along with the protagonist," said Yachnin.27 Publics would form around portraiture and maps, as people of a given location and culture could understand their place in the world. Publics formed around printed ballads and sermons. Publics formed around languages, around laws, around ideas—making, in the words of Benedict Anderson "imagined communities."28 Richard Helgerson, a guiding light of the Making Publics Project, was inspired to write his book Forms of Nationhood by this single sentence in a letter by Edmund Spenser in 1580: "For why a God's name may not we, as else the Greeks, have a kingdom of our own language?"29 Or a kingdom of our own culture or religion or gender or worldview, a community or kingdom of our definition and making?
"To live together in the world," wrote Hannah Arendt, "means essentially that a world of things is between those who have it in common, as a table is located between those who sit around it."30 Publics and communities are often thought of in terms of space: a boundary around a town, a state, a nation. Arendt's metaphor of the table appeals as it brings to mind the discourse of those seated around—and makes us ask who is and is not given a place there. "A public sphere comprises an indefinite number of more or less overlapping publics," said Craig Calhoun, "some ephemeral, some enduring, and some shaped by struggle against the dominant organization of others."31 Michael Warner developed his theory of counterpublics around the notion that some publics "are defined by their tension with a larger public."32 Nancy Fraser made the concept concrete: Alongside the bourgeois public "there arose a host of competing counterpublics, including nationalist publics, popular peasant publics, elite women's publics, and working-class publics. Thus there were competing publics from the start, not just in the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries, as Habermas implies."33
Habermas called the Early Modern public of the coffeehouse inclusive, for it allowed people who otherwise would not have met in conversation to sit at the same table—in fact, they were required to, as the historian of the venue, Markman Ellis, recounted: "Arriving in the coffee-house, customers were expected to take the next available seat, placing themselves next to whoever else has come before them. No seat could be reserved, no man might refuse your company. This seating policy impresses on all that in the coffee-house all are equal. Though the matter of seating may appear inconsequential, the principle of equality this policy introduced had remarkable ramifications in the decades to come. From the arrangement of its chairs, the coffee-house allowed men who did not know each other to sit together amicably and expected them to converse." New norms were required in increasingly urbanized England. "In the anonymous context of the city, in which most people are unknown to each other, this sociable habit was astonishing. Furthermore, the principle of equality established by the seating arrangements recommended equality and openness as the principle of conversation."34 Even in the midst of civil upheaval, royalists sat with Puritans (who preferred the temperance of coffee, tea, and chocolate over taverns' beer). Early on, coffeehouses were inhabited by a "virtuoso culture" that emphasized "civility, curiosity, cosmopolitanism, and learned discourse," said Brian Cowan in The Social Life of Coffee.35
London's most celebrated coffeehouse was Will's, where England's first poet laureate, John Dryden, would hold court. There a twelve-year-old Alexander Pope was brought to hear him.36 There, too, diarist Samuel Pepys would come to catch news and gossip. "Under no roof was a greater variety of figures to be seen," wrote Thomas Babington Macaulay. "There were earls in stars and garters, clergymen in cassocks and bands, pert Templars, sheepish lads from universities, translators and index-makers in ragged coats of frieze. The greatest press was to get near the chair where John Dryden sat."37
As coffeehouses spread in London after the first opened there in 1652, subcultures emerged within and among the houses. Some had a single table for all, and others had multiple tables or booths where people of like interest could congregate. In the Chapter Coffeehouse, one booth was occupied by the Wet Paper Club, so-called because they would wait to receive the day's newspaper wet (not hot) off the press.38 Macaulay listed one coffeehouse for medical men; another for Puritans "where no oath was heard"; another where Jews, "dark eyed money-changers from Venice and Amsterdam greeted each other"; another for papists where "as good Protestants believed, Jesuits planned over their cups another great fire, and cast silver bullets to shoot the King."39 Coffeehouses became known as penny universities because, for the price of drink, one could listen to learned men—Dryden, Christopher Wren, Robert Hooke, Edmund Halley, Robert Boyle, Daniel Defoe, David Hume, Voltaire, Jonathan Swift (who complained, "the worst conversation I ever remember to have heard in my life was that at Will's Coffeehouse").40 Patrons signed up for lessons in languages, dancing, or fencing, or to hear lectures in poetry, mathematics, or astronomy.41 The change in social norms brought by the coffeehouse was significant, shifting social interaction away from the expectation of arranging formal visits in homes to suddenly being able to drop by a place where everybody knows your name.
It sounds idyllic, the coffeehouse of the period, filled with a diversity of souls able to mix and converse and discern and learn. That image and that standard of discourse is enough to shame us for the quality of conversation we have in our coffeehouse online, where rancor rules. Ah, but it was at Will's where Pope was assaulted outside "by a gang of ruffians who had not taken kindly to his latest poetic satires."42 Coffeehouses were blamed for the ruin of English intellectual life: " 'the decay of study, and consequently of learning,' was due to 'coffy houses, to which most scholars retire and spend much of the day in hearing and speaking of news [and] in speaking vily of their superior,' " complained Oxford's Anthony Wood. Oxford and Cambridge each issued rules forbidding students from frequenting coffeehouses without protection of their tutors.43 "More than once, the coffeehouse was compared to Noah's ark, receiving 'Animals of every sort' or both 'the clean and the unclean,' " wrote Lawrence Klein, quoting The Character of a Coffee House from 1673.44
In Habermas' rather kumbaya view, the coffeehouse, "far from presupposing the equality of status, disregarded status altogether" and therefore created "a more inclusive public of all private people, persons who—insofar as they were propertied and educated—as readers, listeners, and spectators could avail themselves via the market of the objects that were subject to discussion."45 His "insofar" is immensely limiting, including the propertied and educated but excluding women, "people of mean fortune,"46 and untold undesirables. Women of the time protested, presenting The Women's Petition Against Coffee, representing to public consideration the grand inconvenience accruing to their sex from the excessive use of the drying and enfeebling Liquor.47 Nancy Fraser made a compelling feminist argument against Habermas' presumption of a public sphere there: "We can no longer assume that the bourgeois conception of the public sphere was simply an unrealized utopian ideal; it was also a masculinist ideological notion that functioned to legitimate an emergent form of class rule.... In short, is the idea of the public sphere an instrument of domination or a utopian ideal?"48
Habermas idealized not only the composition of coffeehouse clientele but their discussion, building his thesis on the belief that their debate was rational and critical. Cowan alleged that Habermas engaged in a tautology of sorts, accepting descriptions of the culture in British coffeehouses from Joseph Addison and Richard Steele's publications, which themselves tried to mold that culture. Their journals were read in coffeehouses, their content was debated there, and these conversations were in turn reported and critiqued in their pages. "In the Tatler, the Spectator, and the Guardian, the public held up a mirror to itself," Habermas wrote.49
Habermas' mirror was gilded, said Cowan, for "it was difficult to find this ideal public sphere in the real coffeehouses of London. Herein, then, lay much of the import and the urgency of Addison's claim that his Mr. Spectator desired to be known as the one who 'brought philosophy out of closets and libraries, schools and colleges, to dwell in clubs and assemblies, at tea-tables and in coffee-houses.' In other words, he wanted to make the coffeehouses safe for philosophy and to do so required that they be purged of the vice, disorder, and folly that Mr. Spectator so often observed within them." Cowan said the ideal public sphere painted by the Spectator "was a carefully policed forum for urban but not risqué conversation, for moral reflection rather than obsession with the news of the day, or the latest fashions, and for temperate argument on affairs of state rather than heated political debate. In other words, it was not envisioned as an open forum for competitive debate between ideologies and interests, but rather as a medium whereby a stable sociopolitical consensus could be enforced through making partisan political debate appear socially acceptable in public spaces such as coffeehouses or in media like periodical newspapers."50 The public sphere of the coffeehouse was aspirational more than documented.
If coffeehouses were such paragons of politeness and civility, there'd have been no need for proprietors to post rules such as these in a 1674 broadside reproduced in Aytoun Ellis' The Penny Universities: A History of the Coffee Houses. It would not be such a bad set of rules for Facebook and Twitter.

First, Gentry, Tradesmen, all are welcome hither,
And may without Affront sit down Together:
Pre-eminence of Place, none here should Mind,
But take the next fit Seat he can find:
Nor need any, if Finer Persons come,
Rise up for to assign to them his Room;
To limit men's Expence we think not fair,
But let him forfeit Twelve-pence that shall Swear;
He that shall any Quarrel here begin,
Shall give each Man a Dish t' Atone the Sin;
And so shall He, whose Complements extend
So far to drink in COFFEE to his Friend;
Let Noise of loud Disputes be quite forborn,
No Maudlin Lovers here in Corners mourn,
But all be Brisk, and Talk, but not too much.
On Sacred things, Let none presume to touch,
Nor Profane Scriptures, nor sauciley wrong
Affairs of State with an Irreverent Tongue:
Let Mirth be Innocent, and each Man see
That all his Jests without Reflection be;
To keep the House more Quiet and from Blame,
We Banish hence Cards, Dice and every Game:
Nor can Allow of Wagers that Exceed
Five Shillings, which oft-time much Trouble Breed
Let all that's lost, or forfeited, be spent
In such Good Liquor as the House doth vent
And Customers endeavour to their Powers,
For to observe still seasonable Howers.
Lastly, let each Man what he calls for Pay,
And so you're welcome to come every Day.51

My quarrel with Habermas' idealized public sphere is that he set a standard impossible for modern conversation to attain. A fall from conversational grace is a useful device by which to fault mass media, capitalism, and the welfare state for the shortcomings of democratic society. But what if the public conversation was never so lofty? What if it has not fallen? Cowan said that "the pretense of coffeehouse civility might easily dissolve into mob violence. These fears of civil society gone awry continued to haunt understandings of the role of the coffeehouse in English society from its inception well into the eighteenth century. They were well-founded fears. The coffeehouses were indeed a primary venue for the distribution of false rumors, seditious libels, and political organizing."52 Mark Pendergrast reported that English coffeehouses were often "chaotic, smelly, wildly energetic, and capitalistic."53 That is precisely what appeals to me about the real coffeehouse (versus Habermas') as a metaphor for the public conversation online today: It is inclusive but imperfectly. It aspires to be intelligent and informed yet so often fails, turning nasty and occasionally violent. The net is all that: chaotic, smelly, wildly energetic, and capitalistic and sometimes also intelligent and convivial and warm. The net, like the coffeehouse, is merely human. In 2022, Habermas himself commented at last on the advent of the internet, calling it "a caesura in the development of media in human history comparable to the introduction of printing." He acknowledged that "at first, the new media seemed to herald at last the fulfillment of the egalitarian-universalist claim of the bourgeois public sphere to include all citizens equally."54 At first, at least.
In each of these two eras—Early Modern coffeehouse and present-day net—a new institution threw people together who were not accustomed to interacting and did not yet have the mutual understanding as well as the norms and rules to govern their intercourse. Lawrence Klein explained that in its day, the aristocracy had set the rules for polite culture. But the opening of the first coffeehouse in Oxford in 1650 (by a Jewish entrepreneur named Jacob, just as Jews were allowed to resettle in England) came amid revolution, as King Charles I had been beheaded only the year before. Puritans were now in government but challenged by royalists, Catholics, Presbyterians, Quakers, and Anglicans. Without the monarchy to set standards and with much turmoil in the wind, other institutions—publishing, universities, the arts, and even coffeehouses—entered to fill the normative void.55
Today we, too, are leaving a time when venerable institutions—media, the arts, schools, government, religion, the family—had established rules of interaction, but now fail to inform the circumstances of our new means to connect. It's not just that the old rules may not apply in new environments. It's also that old rules were imposed by the powerful—white, male, and privileged—upon other sectors of society—among them in America, Black, Latino, LGBTQ+, disabled, immigrant, poor—who did not have seats at the table where standards were set for all. Now the formerly disenfranchised have an opportunity to seek new rules—and those who set the old rules resent their intrusion; when their old ways are criticized, they cry that they have been "canceled."
In a perceptive Twitter thread, Regina Rini, a Canadian philosophy professor, identified two forces at work in the debate about debating we are having today. In one corner are those she labeled the Movement for Marginal Protection, who wish to add to the list of exceptions to what is allowed in polite conversation. For example, I'm old enough to remember when calling a grown woman a "girl" was tolerated, albeit through gritted teeth, and then at last that was added to the list of exceptions. Today, we are debating new exceptions about, for example, gendered pronouns or immigration. In the other corner are those who do not wish to expand the list of exceptions and do not like being called out and criticized for failing to follow someone else's new rule. Those Rini labels the Status Quo Warriors.56 This process of forging societal norms has gone on forever, only now there are more people taking part in the negotiation. In the age of the coffeehouse, there were rules pasted on the walls, countless manuals for appropriate behavior and conversation, and a place to leave your sword at the door. Online, we are struggling to discern our new rules as the incumbent institutions—media, government, education—blame technology companies for ruining society without addressing their own need to adapt. The technology companies, in turn, are fearful of making rules that will be unpopular or hard and expensive to enforce at scale. Into that void lunge trolls and conspiracy theorists who will reign until polite society finally agrees what is acceptable behavior and begins enforcing its norms, shunning the miscreants.

In the coffeehouse, we see the origins of a media industry and its relationship with its public and with authorities. We see, too. the birth of social media of a sort and its relationship with news. Print had been around for two centuries by the time coffeehouses arrived, but newspapers were new and were too expensive to be bought by commoners. Coffeehouses changed that: "The coffeehouse was the place to read broadsides, pamphlets, and periodicals," said Klein. "As a specifically discursive institution, the coffeehouse should be viewed in the context of the history of discourse and communicative practices in society."57 The web of coffeehouses was a mechanism for the distribution not only of drink but of news and information, and for the public conversation around it. "A correspondent to the Spectator noted in 1712 how an untruthful remark made in one morning would fly through the coffeehouses of the city throughout the course of the day," said Cowan. "The numerous coffeehouses of the metropolis were greater than the sum of their parts; they formed an interactive system in which information was socialized and made sense of by the various constituencies of the city."58
"Nothing resembling the modern newspaper existed," noted Macaulay. "In such circumstances, the coffee-houses were the chief organs through which the public opinion of the metropolis vented itself."59 Macaulay, who was credited in 1828 with naming the press in the gallery of Parliament "the Fourth Estate of the realm," said coffeehouse orators deserved the title first. Early Modern England and Europe struggled to find mechanisms to assure credibility while authorities attempted to control the flow of bad information or of information entirely. "Although the coffeehouse carried an air of distinct gentility that set it apart from other common victuallers and public-house keepers," said Cowan, "the trade also faced a unique image problem as a result of its association with the dissemination of seditious rumors or 'false news' among the general populace." Cowan quoted English lawyer Roger North fretting that "not only sedition and treason, but atheism, heresy, and blasphemy are publicly taught in diverse of the celebrated coffee-houses."60
It is a testament to the importance of the coffeehouse in English society that even as an institution Puritanical in nature—it was a temperance house with rules of behavior—it survived the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660 and multiple subsequent attempts to shut it down. "They were certainly viewed with grave suspicion by authority which, at times, was apprehensive but was forced to recognize them and respect them as the vox populi," wrote Aytoun Ellis.61 "It became increasingly difficult to assert the authority of traditional institutions in this discursive and cultural environment," said Klein.62
Charles II viewed the coffeehouses as a place to brew sedition alongside coffee. He had his high chancellor propose to the Privy Council the use of spies to snoop on the conversations there and to consider a royal proclamation to close them down. The secretary of state rejected the proposal, cautioning that the crown needed revenue from the lucrative excise tax on coffee, and that prohibition would, in Cowan's words, stir up resentment against the recently reinstalled monarchy.63 Charles issued proclamations in 1672 against harmful content and rumor-mongering, ordering that "great and heavy Penalties are Inflicted upon all such as shall be found to be spreaders of false News, or promoters of any Malicious Slanders and Calumnies in their ordinary and common Discourses."64 In 1673 the government issued a statement through Parliament: "As for coffee, tea, and chocolate, I know no good they do."65 In 1675, Charles finally issued a Proclamation for the Suppression of Coffee-Houses:

Whereas it is most apparent that the Multitude of Coffee-houses of late years set up and kept within this Kingdom ... have produced very evil and dangerous effects; as well as for the Tradesmen and others do therein misspend much of their time, which might and probably would otherwise be employed in and about their Lawful Callings and Affairs; but also, for that in such Houses, and by occasion of the meetings of such persons therein, divers False, Malicious and Scandalous Reports are devised and spread abroad, to the defamation of His Majesties Government, and to the Disturbance of Peace and Quiet of the Realm, his Majesty hath thought it fit and necessary, That the said Coffee-houses be (for the future) Put down and Suppressed.66

"As soon as the Proclamation was made known there was a great public outcry and men of all parties protested in the most vigorous fashion," Aytoun Ellis said. The proclamation was withdrawn within ten days and the coffeehouses were allowed to stay open so long as they cooperated in "barring entry to the spies and mischief makers" and would not allow "scandalous papers, books or libels."67 Intrigue continued as a spy named Dangerfield set out to hire agents to infiltrate the coffeehouses and spread disinformation about Presbyterian plots.68 The idea of regulating the coffeehouses did eventually become more popular, Cowan said, "when it was phrased as an assault on the dissemination of 'false news,' nearly everyone could rally round the cause of regulating the coffeehouses. The difficulties arose when it came to determining which news was false and what was true, especially in an intense climate of fear of popish and/or nonconformist plots.... Insofar as coffeehouses figured in this debate, they appeared as dangerous vectors through which the seditious principles and the false news of one's political opponents were propagated. At best, they were a necessary evil through which the views of one's opponents must be countered."69 Unbridled talk, fake news, spies, scandals, sedition—fear of Facebook, Twitter, and the net has its precedent in the coffeehouses.
Coffeehouses were distinctly businesses. They partnered with booksellers to offer books. They, like early American newspapers, sold patent medicines from quacks. They were involved in the slave trade as a place to leave messages regarding the sale or capture of enslaved people.70 When the coffeehouse came to England, the office as workplace still did not exist, so business was often done over tables in the coffeehouse, "which satisfied the functions of mailroom, boardroom, desk space, and, of course, cafeteria."71 Lloyd's Coffeehouse played host to ship auctions and to insurance merchants, soon charging them ten guineas a year for the privilege of working there, eventually becoming the insurance marketplace Lloyd's of London. Its proprietor, Edward Lloyd, also started publishing a newspaper, Lloyd's News, covering primarily mercantile matters but also the affairs of Parliament, which led to official displeasure and the end of the publication in 1697. It was replaced in 1734 with Lloyd's List, a maritime intelligence publication, in addition to Lloyd's Register, started in 1760; both still operate online.72
Publishers and coffeehouses coexisted in a not-always-happy symbiotic relationship. The first English newspaper arrived fifteen years after the first coffeehouse, with the founding of The Gazette, an official newspaper, in 1665. They then grew together. Coffeehouse patrons expected to read and discuss newspapers (licensed or otherwise), newsletters, and journals, such as Tatler and the Spectator, with the price of their coffee. This was an expense the coffeehouse proprietors came to resent. So they ganged together and planned to publish their own sheet, the coffeehouse Gazette. In the pamphlet The Case of the Coffee Men Against the Newswriters, the proprietors complained of "an intolerable grievance that newspapers were choked with advertisements, and filled with foolish stories picked up at all places of public entertainment, including the ale-houses; and 'persons are employed—one or two for each paper—at so much a week to haunt coffee houses, and thrust themselves into companies where they are not known ... in order to pick up matter for the papers.' " So reported Edward Forbes Robinson in his 1893 The Early History of Coffee Houses in England.73
Coffeehouses were indeed sources of publishers' news. In Button's Coffee House, Addison and Steele installed a lion's head with a large, open mouth, designed by William Hogarth, as a repository for letters, reports, limericks, and whatever customers wished to submit for their periodicals. In competition, the coffeehouse cartel proposed to provide its own slates and pencils "to be filled by gentlemen frequenters of the house with such articles as each may be able to afford.... Such is the somewhat primitive proposal by which the public are to write their own newspapers."74 Cheekily, the proprietors even called for "a joint understanding between the English nation and the Coffee House Masters" for "the sole right of intelligence"—that is, a monopoly over news. The plan came to naught.
The network of coffeehouses depended on publishers for what we would call content. The publishers depended on the coffeehouse for what we would think of as distribution. The jealous relationship between them was that of "frenemies," as publishers and platforms gratingly say today. All the while, government stood uneasily by, unable to control what authorities saw as the unfettered flow of false news as well as opinion and complaint. Habermas' public sphere was not invented in the coffeehouses. Neither was the conversation there as civil as he imagined. But conversation found a home there, just as it finds its new home online, with all the tensions and joys we should expect.

"Republics require conversation, often cacophonous conversation, for they should be noisy places."75 So said the late Columbia Professor James Carey, a scholar of communication as culture. Carey understood, better than anyone I have read, the primacy of conversation in our conception of the public and of the role of the press in it. He informs my thinking about what kind of conversation we should strive for in this time of the universal press.
As he formulated his own theories, Carey synthesized the thought of early scholars in communications, Walter Lippmann and John Dewey. In his classic 1922 work Public Opinion, Lippmann complained—as we do today—that the news comes at us too fast. He insisted that the public is incapable of gaining sufficient knowledge and expertise to make informed decisions. When he was being generous, he said the "omnicompetent citizen" is an impossibility because "the real environment is altogether too big, too complex, and too fleeting for direct acquaintance." When he was less charitable, Lippmann averred that "the mass of absolutely illiterate, of feeble-minded, grossly neurotic, undernourished and frustrated individuals, is very considerable."76 The industry meant to inform the public, the press, is fundamentally flawed. "The press is no substitute for institutions," said Lippmann. "It is like the beam of a searchlight that moves restlessly about, bringing one episode and then another out of darkness into vision. Men cannot do the work of the world by this light alone. They cannot govern society by episodes, incidents, and eruptions." True. As Lippmann said, "newspapers necessarily and inevitably reflect, and therefore, in greater or lesser measure, intensify the defective organization of public opinion."
Lippmann put his faith instead in experts, proposing a priesthood of panels populated by scientists and others who would inform not the public but instead their elected officials and administrative leaders. Lippmann thus segregated information and expertise from politics and public opinion, contending that "the power of the expert depends upon separating himself from those who make the decisions, upon not caring in his expert self, what decision is made." His vision is especially difficult to imagine now, in a time of resistance to expertise and institutions. And one must ask: Expert in what? Who is expert in racism and inequality but those who are burdened with the consequences? Who is expert in disability but those who live with its boundaries? Are the experts in police violence the police or the objects of it?
Dewey countered Lippmann: "No government by experts in which the masses do not have the chance to inform the experts as to their needs can be anything but an oligarchy managed in the interests of the few." A society in which the public is mute save for the ballot box must be one in which considerable resources are spent on manipulating voters via propaganda. Administration by experts rather than political cronies seems a worthy goal. But, Dewey said, "this revival of the Platonic notion that philosophers should be kings is the more taking because the idea of experts is substituted for that of philosophers, since philosophy has become something of a joke, while the image of the specialist, the expert in operation, is rendered familiar and congenial by the rise of the physical sciences and by the conduct of industry." Dewey worried that "inventors and engineers hired by captains of industry" would supplant intellectuals. That seems to describe the first phase of the internet. As for the next phase, we now have a large base of humanity loudly dismissing experts, vowing to do whatever they advise against, in a self-destructive assertion of power. If we settle for that vision of ignorant humankind, then we surrender ourselves to perpetual epistemological warfare—facts vs. alternative facts.
I do not think we need settle there and neither did Dewey nor certainly Carey, for they believed that we must tend to the health of the public conversation. Said Dewey: "But the wingéd words of conversation in immediate intercourse have a vital import lacking in the fixed and frozen words of written speech." Print, he said, is but a tool. "Ideas which are not communicated, shared, and reborn in expression are but soliloquy, and soliloquy is but broken and imperfect thought."77 Print is incomplete, for it can provide but one half of a conversation and even then, only from the few and the privileged. Speech without reply cannot be conversation. Lippmann saw the world in visual terms: the ability of experts to provide a picture of reality. Dewey's metaphor was aural. "Vision is a spectator; hearing is a participator," he wrote at the end of The Public and Its Problems. "Publication is partial and the public which results is partially informed and formed until the meanings it purveys pass from mouth to mouth.... We lie, as Emerson said, in the lap of an immense intelligence. But that intelligence is dormant and faint until it possesses the local community as its medium."78
Carey counterposed Lippmann and Dewey in his essay, "A Cultural Approach to Communication," in which he presented two approaches to the field: the transmission view and the ritual view. The transmission view "is the common perspective that communication is defined by terms such as 'imparting,' 'sending,' transmitting,' or 'giving information to others.' " Transmission is the movement of things or messages, the distribution of commodities sent over distances. The development of both print and postal networks buttresses this perspective. In the transmission view, Carey found a religious undertone, particularly in the effort by white Europeans to proselytize the globe.79 That is communication as manifest destiny: the right to conquer through media. Such is the founding myth of modern America as an empire built on transmission via technology.
The ritual view of communication is not new, Carey said, but so old as to be categorized as archaic, now being restored (as after a Parenthesis). "In the ritual definition, communication is linked to terms such as 'sharing,' 'participation,' 'association,' 'fellowship,' and 'the possession of a common faith.' This definition exploits the ancient identity and common roots of the terms 'commonness,' 'communion,' 'community,' and 'communication.' A ritual view of communications is directed not toward the extension of messages in space but toward the maintenance of society in time; not the act of imparting information but the representation of shared beliefs."80 Reading a newspaper, he said, is not so much about receiving information but instead should be viewed "more as attending a mass, a situation in which nothing new is learned but in which a particular view of the world is portrayed and confirmed. ... What is arrayed before the reader is not pure information but a portrayal of the contending forces in the world."81 Media are representations of the world and as such they must respond to what they hear; they must converse. In New York University Professor Jay Rosen's eloquent summation of Carey, "the press does not 'inform' the public. It is 'the public' that ought to inform the press. The true subject matter of journalism is the conversation the public is having with itself."82
Carey reconsidered the Bill of Rights in these terms, as a "document that constitutes us as a people... It is an injunction as to how we might live together as a people, peacefully and argumentatively but civilly and progressively." The First Amendment requires us "to create a conversational society, a society of people who speak to one another, who converse. Other words might do: a society of argument, disputation, or debate, for example. But I believe we must begin from the primacy of conversation. It implies social arrangements less hierarchical and more egalitarian than its alternatives. While people often dry up and shy away from the fierceness of argument, disputation, and debate, and while those forms of talk often bring to the surface the meanness and aggressiveness that is our second nature, conversation implies the most natural and unforced, unthreatening, and most satisfying of arrangements."83 Rosen interpreted: "Publics are formed when we turn from our private and separate affairs to face common problems, and to face each other in dialogue and discussion."84

There are lessons to be learned from the fate of conversation inside the Parenthesis. In the examples above, print lost its conversational nature as authors and institutions exerted control. The public conversation was never a nostalgic ideal. And as more people gained the means to enter the conversation, they consistently met resistance from those who had controlled it.
There are lessons, too, from this side of the Parenthesis. Here are a few of my own. I went to work for Advance Publications, parent company of Condé Nast magazines and Newhouse newspapers, just as the first commercial web browser was released in 1994. My boss, Steven Newhouse, whose family owns the company, understood the limited value of content online and the untapped value of conversation. He taught me that. Alongside the company's magazines, over the dead bodies of some print editors, my colleagues Joan Feeney and Rochelle Udell started the food site Epicurious with a database of recipes from the bibles, Gourmet and Bon Appetit. (The old recipes had to be retyped from print archives into computers by monks-for-hire—digital scribes; how Parenthetical is that?) Alongside the recipe database, they started a recipe-swap forum. Readers were suddenly empowered to chat about the magazines' recipes and even to improve them; they brought enthusiasm, joy, and expertise to the dinner table. There was a lesson.
With my colleague Peter Hauck, we started forums on our local newspaper sites and saw floodgates open, releasing repressed desire by neighbors to connect and discuss. And we saw trouble: Our first indication was in a high-school wrestling forum—hugely popular because wrestlers never got the attention the football jocks did—where someone started a rather lively thread about a certain "Coach Nut-Grabber." We quickly realized we needed to hire moderators to uphold standards, or else all discussion would devolve. We needed to invest in the quality of the conversations we served. Lesson learned.
Advance invested in a startup called Plastic.com, which was a merger of the savvy and snarky early web publications, Feed and Suck.com. In its attempt to manage conversation at scale, the site turned to the example of Slashdot, a service for geeks that invented a complex system of earning and spending "karma" by contributing value to and helping moderate conversation.85 Plastic adapted Slashdot's discussion software. Though Slashdot is still going, Plastic crumbled under the weight of the program's complexity, as users just didn't find it worth the trouble. Technology alone is not the solution to the challenges of conversation online. Lesson learned.
Early on, many corporations tried to play host to—rather, to own—conversation online. I was a member of CompuServe starting in 1981, where I was delighted to find that I could ask other members questions and they'd take the time to answer. AOL, Delphi, GEnie, Prodigy, and The Source all preceded the commercial web as isolated, walled gardens. On the nascent internet, there were countless usenet discussion groups on every topic imaginable—for example, fans building complete and authoritative episode guides to virtually every TV series ever. Their contributions were stored and served on distributed computers, in no one's control. There were also countless bulletin boards: a computer in somebody's basement attached to a phone line others' computers could call into—if the line wasn't busy—to read and leave comments. The San Francisco bulletin board called the WELL rarely had more than 10,000 members—Whole Earth Catalog hippies, early personal-computer nerds, Deadheads, and journalists—yet Wired dubbed it "the world's most influential online community." It was famous for reminding users that "you own your own words." That could be interpreted multiple ways: as a statement of proprietary rights; as a hedge to get the WELL off the hook in legal disputes (a preview of the now-much-debated and wisely conceived Section 230, which protects platforms and publishers from liability for what users do on their sites while also allowing them to moderate); and as a moral dictum—you are responsible for what you say here. My problem with the WELL was its elite and exclusive, know-it-all, geeky attitude—a preview of Silicon Valley culture to come. The WELL wanted to become a model for collaborative community, believing in the principle of free speech for all, but then had to grapple with the challenges presented by early proto-trolls.86 A difficult lesson.
After I left Advance to teach, Newhouse bought Reddit, a still-small forum that played host to conversations on a huge number of topics, combining the best and worst of usenet and the WELL. It had good discussions and god-awful discussions. My former boss called one day asking whether I had a solution to maintaining dedication to free expression while managing the worst of it. I did not. Reddit eventually found its answer, empowering each discussion to manage itself as a distinct community with its own standards and rules. That's not to say it found the path to perfect harmony. On Twitter, former Reddit CEO Yishan Wong shared the institutional desire of every social-media platform: "They would like you (the users) to stop squabbling over stupid shit and causing drama so they can spend their time writing more features and not having to adjudicate your stupid little fights."87 A lesson ongoing.
Lord knows, Facebook has much to learn about how to host a garden party. At the World Economic Forum in Davos in 2007, I watched as a powerful newspaper publisher begged Mark Zuckerberg for advice on how to start and own a community. Zuckerberg responded with two words: "You can't." After an uncomfortable silence, he elaborated, telling the publisher he had asked the wrong question. You don't make or own communities, Zuckerberg said. Communities already exist. They are doing what they want to do. The question you should ask is how you help them do that better. His advice was to bring them "elegant organization." Oh, if only Zuckerberg had been capable of following his own advice. His Facebook grew too big, too fast, without the necessary principles to guide it and its users. Facebook never decided on its raison d'être, a North Star for itself and its public. Instead, it issued nitty-gritty "community standards" imposed on the community from above. The company must constantly relearn Masnick's Impossibility Theorem: "Content moderation at scale is impossible to do well."88 Scale online is an ally insofar as it allows anyone to speak to anyone. Scale is a foe insofar as it makes reviewing and passing judgment on everything said on a service the size of Facebook impossibly complicated and expensive. Facebook tries to contrive rules that thousands of human moderators and constantly revised algorithms can enforce. "Facebook is just too big to govern," concluded University of Virginia Professor Siva Vaidhyanathan. "We are all victims of its success.... It's a story of the hubris of good intentions, a missionary spirit, and an ideology that sees computer code as the universal solvent for all human problems."89 These are lessons yet to be learned.
After leaving the company he co-founded, former Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey tweeted that he had learned a lesson: "Centralizing discovery and identity into corporations really damaged the internet. I realize I'm partially to blame, and regret it."90 Centralization is what made Twitter's conversation and community vulnerable to Elon Musk's takeover. Perhaps in penance, Dorsey formulated a plan called Bluesky, which envisions the speech layer of the internet as a commodity, open-source and distributed, controlled by no one company: anyone may speak anywhere.91 Atop that layer, others—entrepreneurs, new-fangled editors, librarians, educators, experts, companies and institutions yet to be invented—may create services to find speakers worth hearing, speech that is relevant, authoritative, expert, or artful. We shall see. I wish for such deliberate curation of the best of our speech. This is a lesson we have yet to explore.
Then there are the lessons of Wikipedia, Jimmy Wales' audacious, magnificently hubristic enterprise to make it possible to gather "a comprehensive written compendium that contains information on all branches of knowledge," presented with a neutral point of view.92 The success of Wikipedia is not in its clumsy wiki technology. It is in its shared purpose and in the human norms, structures, and procedures it creates—cognizant of mortal foibles, with consent and consensus among its volunteers—to assess and assure credibility.
To build our public discourse online, we must recognize that its problems, solutions, and opportunities start not with technology, but with ourselves. None of this is quick or easy. We need to be realistic in our expectations. What do we do about the problems of manipulation, misinformation, and disinformation and the citizens who swallow it? Some advocate teaching news literacy. I say that if the news needs a user's manual, then the news needs repair. I take the counsel of researcher danah boyd, who warned that when we teach our children to be suspicious of everything they see, "we ask students to challenge their sacred cows but don't give them a new framework through which to make sense of the world; others are often there to do it for us." Cambridge University fellow Daniel Williams asserted that in a time when people choose beliefs and then look for rationalizations to support them, a marketplace for rationalizations emerges, "a social structure in which agents compete to produce justifications of widely desired beliefs."93 Fox News is one such marketplace as are countless virtual caves where conspiracy theorists lurk online. How do we guard against their pernicious power? "From an educational point of view," said boyd, "this means building the capacity to truly hear and embrace someone else's perspective and teaching people to understand another's views while holding their own."94 The solution can be nothing less than education writ large: educating citizens in principles of their own while also creating the means to make strangers less strange, to at least understand others' circumstances, to become literate in each other.
Some say social media is an echo chamber, a filter bubble in the term popularized by Eli Pariser in his 2011 book, The Filter Bubble: What the Internet is Hiding from You. This thesis, that people seek out only that which rationalizes their already held beliefs, was frequently proposed by Harvard Law School's Cass Sunstein starting in 2001 in his books Echo Chambers, Republic.com, Republic.com 2.0, and #Republic. Except the filter bubble proves to be a myth. In Are Filter Bubbles Real? Australian academic Axel Bruns performed an exhaustive survey of research into behavior online, and he compiled convincing evidence that answered his title's question in the negative. Except in extreme examples—white supremacist groups in the US, the far-right Alternative für Deutschland party in Germany—research cited by Bruns found that people do receive news and information from multiple sources and perspectives, that they do not select their social connections online solely on political homophily, and that Google does not greatly personalize and thus limit the scope of the information it serves. Bruns cautioned: "The incessant and continuing focus of media coverage, media scholarship, and political debate on these ill-defined ideas overemphasizes the role of platforms and their algorithms in current political crises, and obscures a far more critical challenge: the return of naked, hyperpartisan populism and political demagoguery."95
I fret when I hear commentators, politicians, and even academics suggest that there is "too much speech," that the First Amendment is anachronistic, that the marketplace of ideas has met market failure, or that speech itself must be regulated. "What If More Speech Is No Longer the Solution?" asked Duke University media and political scholar Philip Napoli in the title of a 2017 paper. His question was related to the one Columbia University legal scholar Tim Wu posed in the title of his paper that same year, "Is the First Amendment Obsolete?" Napoli worried about filter bubbles, lowered gatekeeping barriers, fragmentation of media, the proliferation and velocity of hate speech and "fake news," and the "diminished news consumers' ability to distinguish between true and false news."96 In a 2021 Atlantic article, Ian Bogost, a Washington University media studies professor, provocatively asked, "What if people shouldn't be able to say so much, and to so many, so often?... Wouldn't it just be better if people posted less stuff, less frequently, and if smaller audiences saw it?"97 As a piece of advice, I get it and agree: Do you really need to post your hot take on the thing everyone else is posting hot takes about? As a question of policy, though, asking whether people should be able to speak worries me.
Napoli's real target was the counterspeech doctrine, best articulated by Louis Brandeis in Whitney v. California: "If there be time to expose through discussion the falsehood and fallacies, to avert the evil by the processes of education, the remedy to be applied is more speech, not enforced silence. Only an emergency can justify repression."98 Said Napoli: "The counterspeech doctrine is a pillar of First Amendment theory that rests on an intellectual foundation that is somewhat shaky, at best." His proposal was for government to impose a "public interest regulatory framework" on technology companies, requiring "a greater commitment and editorial responsibility toward truth and accuracy" in ways that "reflect well-established norms of journalistic service in the public interest."99 For his part, Wu imagined legislation to call on social platforms to act as "a kind of trustee operating in the public interest, and requires that it actively take steps to promote a healthy speech environment." In the United States, we would not tolerate government interference in the speech of authors or journalists. Why should we indulge such regulation of citizens' speech? In the end, both scholars' essays are inadvertently if deeply conservative, nostalgic for, as Wu put it, "the kind of media environment that prevailed in the 1950s."100 I am not. Like Habermas' coffeehouses, that was a time of white, male hegemony in media. I, for one, am relieved we have left the age of Walter Cronkite telling us all "that's the way it is." For too many, it wasn't.
I prefer the realistic view of Lyrissa Barnett Lidsky, dean of the University of Missouri School of Law, in her 2010 essay, "Nobody's Fools: The Rational Audience as First Amendment Ideal." The First Amendment is fundamentally anti-paternalistic in presuming a rational public, which "calls on citizens to raise their cognitive capacities to meet the demands of public discourse." Do we succeed? No. "This new vein of criticism suggests that the marketplace of ideas is flawed because humans are flawed: they are not rational information processors, and more information often leads to worse decisions instead of better ones."101 Stipulated. Let us acknowledge and embrace that flaw in us, for that is where learning proceeds. Said Brandeis: "Men feared witches and burnt women. It is the function of speech to free men from the bondage of irrational fears."102 Lidsky maintained that the rational audience model forces the state to "respect the autonomy of its citizens" and "prevents the dumbing down of public discourse by refusing to regulate based on the needs of the least educated or least sophisticated audience members."103
The First Amendment and its expectation of rationality demands the best of us. "A standard based on rationalism calls citizens to develop their capacities to engage in rational discourse, to raise their cognitive capacities to the demands of that discourse. We as citizens must risk information overload in order to ensure that we get the information we need. The rational audience ideal reflects a justifiable distrust of overtly paternalistic intervention by government in the realm of speech and expression.... It is this leap of faith in our collective capacities that has led First Amendment doctrine to construct the ideal of the rational audience. It is our duty as citizens to live up to it."104 It is better to call us to higher standards than to presume the lowest are common to all. Another way to put it is that the discussion in the coffeehouse never reached Habermas' ideal of rational and critical debate. Online, it still has not. Will it ever? Doubtful. But we must continue to try. In a democracy, what choice do we have?
Democracy is designed for disagreement; the question is how effectively we debate and deliberate. "We do not know what we need to know until we ask the right questions," said Christopher Lasch, "and we can identify the right questions only by subjecting our own ideas about the world to the test of public controversy. Information, usually seen as the precondition of debate, is better understood as its by-product."105 That is to say that we should not merely tolerate debate but welcome it, value it. "Deliberation," said Habermas, "is a demanding form of communication" that grows out of "asking for and giving reasons." I concur with Habermas' definition of rational discourse: "the competition for better reasons."106
We are engaged in a ceaseless process of renegotiating our norms in a shifting reality. With more people at that negotiating table, there will be more conflict as some will demand to be heard, some will try to manipulate others, and some will claim to be canceled or censored when they may be challenged or educated. The internet thus far has been built to speak—which I celebrate—but not yet to listen. "Listening becomes more than the mere reception of communication messages," said the authors of The Conversation of Journalism, "it becomes a message in itself, confirming the identities and importance of the speakers. Speech divorced from listening, no matter how graceful, is more empty than eloquent."107 The public conversation must become open, inclusive, and equitable. We must learn to listen and to say what is worth hearing. That is where the conversation begins again.







18
Death to the Mass
The masses are always the others, whom we don't know, and can't know.... There are in fact no masses; there are only ways of seeing people as masses.
— Raymond Williams1

Men do not run together and join in a larger mass, as do drops of quicksilver.
— John Dewey2

In the novel A Gentleman in Moscow, Count Alexander Ilyich Rostov is declared a "former person" by the Soviet Union and exiled to live in a hotel that once was as aristocratic as he. Maintaining his taste though not his status, Rostov was frustrated one evening in his attempt to order a particular wine; he was offered instead only red or white. By way of explanation, the head waiter led him into the Metropol's catacombs. "Only, instead of sarcophagi bearing the likenesses of saints, receding into the far reaches of the chamber were rows of racks laden with bottles of wine," wrote Amor Towles. "Here was assembled a staggering collection of Cabernets and Chardonnays, Rieslings and Syrahs, ports and Madeiras—a century of vintages from across the continent of Europe. All told, there were almost ten thousand cases. More than a hundred thousand bottles. And every one of them without a label." As it happened, the Soviet Commissar of Food had received a complaint that the hotel's wine list "runs counter to the ideals of the Revolution." So, with the labor of ten workers for ten days, the bottles were stripped of their identities.
Rostov picked up a bottle at random. "Whichever wine was within, it was decidedly not identical to its neighbors. On the contrary, the contents of the bottle in his hand was the product of a history as unique and complex as that of a nation, or a man. In its color, aroma, and taste, it would certainly express the idiosyncratic geology and prevailing climate of its home terrain. But in addition, it would express all the natural phenomena of its vintage. In a sip, it would evoke the timing of that winter's thaw, the extent of that summer's rain, the prevailing winds, and the frequency of clouds. Yes, a bottle of wine was the ultimate distillation of time and place; a poetic expression of individuality itself. Yet here it was, cast back into the sea of anonymity, that realm of averages and unknowns."3
Such is the mass. The mass is an idea, not so much a label as a lack of one. "The 'mass' is, of course, a fiction," John Carey wrote. "Its function, as a linguistic device, is to eliminate the human status of the majority of people."4 Said Dwight Macdonald: "For the masses are not people, they are not The Man on the Street or The Average Man, they are not even that figment of liberal condescension, The Common Man. The masses are, rather, man as non-man."5 The mass is a way of conceiving of people we choose not to know. It is a rounding up, a sociological ellipsis, a human et cetera. It is necessarily elitist in description: dismissive, paternalistic, insulting, sometimes racist. The mass, said Carey, "is a metaphor for the unknowable and invisible. We cannot see the mass. Crowds can be seen; but the mass is the crowd in its metaphysical aspect—the sum of all possible crowds.... It turns other people into a conglomerate. It denies them the individuality which we ascribe to ourselves and to people we know. Being essentially unknowable, the mass acquires definition through the imposition of imagined attributes."6 At its worst, the word betrays a worldview tinged with disdain or fear. At its most benign, the idea of the mass is a means of economic or political exploitation, of convincing as many people as possible that they all should take up a given toothpaste, car, show, candidate, or ideology—that they should have no taste or opinion other than the taste and opinion of all.
The history of the mass is written in the progression of its synonyms: from crowd to mob to masses to mass market. The mass has been known by many names: multitude, herd, horde, proles, sheeple, great unwashed, hoi polloi, rabble, audience, "the monster with a million worm-like heads,"7 and in recent political commentary, "the base." In my reading, I collected many adjectives used to describe the mass, including gullible, fickle, mindless, impulsive, irrational, emotional, irritable, barbaric, violent, savage, vulgar, mediocre, post-culture, child-like, credulous, intolerant, and blindly obedient. In the 1800s, conservative Scottish writers feared crowds in political and medical terms, worrying that they would "spread both illness and radical principles."8 The patrons of the term mass, said Edward Shils, "have stressed alienation, belieflessness, atomization, amorality, conformism, rootless homogeneity, moral emptiness, facelessness, egotism, the utter evaporation of any kind of loyalty."9
So many institutions of modern life are built on this notion of the mass, of exploiting it or protecting society from it: mass media, mass manufacturing, mass marketing, mass society, mass culture, mass political movements, mass man. So many facets of how we view the public are premised on this presumption that the people will end up behaving—like the Metropol's wines—according to binary classifications: red or blue in politics; progressive or conservative in ideology; white or not in race; high or low in culture; upper or lower in demographics; bourgeoisie or proletariat in Marxist terms; one or ninety-nine percent in economic terms.
The mass is the child and creation of media, a descendent of Gutenberg, the ultimate extension of treating the public as object—as audience—rather than participant. It was the mechanization and industrialization of print with the steam-powered press and Linotype—exploding the circulation of daily newspapers from an average of 4,000 in the late nineteenth century to hundreds of thousands and millions in the next—that brought scale to media. With broadcast, the mass became all-encompassing. Mass is the defining business model of pre-internet capitalism: making as many identical widgets to sell to as many identical people as possible. Content becomes a commodity to attract the attention of the audience, who themselves are sold as a commodity. In the mass, everything and everyone is commodified.
But mass is myth. After two centuries, the internet finally punctures the delusion that people can or should be lumped together by volume, as it finally lets those people be heard on their own. The net is killing the mass media business model, with it mass media, and with it media's presumption, the mass. What Gutenberg and industrialization made possible, the net obsoletes. Media still know you as a number in an audience. Paradoxically, massive Google and Amazon know you as an individual, as technology allows, while Twitter et al. let you speak as an individual. Media are one-way, messaging to the public as a whole, while the net enables a revival—a Renaissance, perhaps—of individualism. Rather than being labeled by others according to borders or demographics, the net permits people to label themselves and gather in communities of like mind, circumstance, interest, need, and affinity. The net helps these communities act together to build movements around issues that media, industry, and government too long ignored.
Just as I declare the mass dead, one might argue instead that it is resurgent and triumphant in the body of Trumpists, Brexiteers, Alternative für Deutschland, Putinists, and populist and authoritarian movements from the Philippines to Hungary to Brazil, which are now connected and empowered on the net. Is this the return of the mass, or its last gasp? Neither. The rise of the populist mob in the image of the news is an illustration of the problem of categorizing people according to external definitions, when we should instead understand the communities, needs, and nuances that always make up a society. Not all of the sixty-three million Americans who saddled the world with Trump in 2016 are the same, though political journalists insist on labeling them simply as his "base." Yes, some of these voters were driven by fear for their jobs; some by single issues such as taxes or abortion or guns; some by party affiliation; some by sexism; some by racism against the minorities that will soon make up the majority of the nation or the immigrants—the Other—who are portrayed as threats to their livelihoods, beliefs, or even children. Some, inexplicably to me, did admire or agree with the man, Trump. When news organizations treat all these people as one, they reduce them to a simplistic stereotype. When pundits ascribe just one attribute to their behavior—often presuming only economic angst—they miss more subtle and often pernicious forces at work, especially racism. When journalists visit extremists in their heartland diner-dens, treating them as curiosities or seeking a mythical middle between them and the rest of the country, they normalize extremism. And when media fail to reflect the varied worldviews and worries of "the mass," they cut off the opportunity to earn the trust of and inform and educate at least some of these people.
I am not saying attention must be paid to the populist mob at the expense of sane citizens—as if angry white men have ever suffered a shortage of attention and power. To the contrary, the greatest cost of focusing so much attention on the Trumpists' "base" is that the many communities that make up the actual majority of Americans—the people who did not vote for him in 2016 and 2020—are not heard, represented, and served. They are, to revive and reverse the prophetic whining of former Vice President Spiro Agnew, a true "silent majority."

"A specter is now haunting sociologists. It is the specter of 'mass society,' " Edward Shils declared in 1962.10 "One can say that, Marxism apart, it is probably the most influential theory in the Western world today," added David Bell.11 Mass is a means to conceptualize politics, history, culture, economy, and media, but first mass is theory, one that is separated into sets of binaries.
Sociologist William Kornhauser identified two political variants: aristocratic "defense of elite values against the rise of mass participation," and democratic defense of the masses against "the rise of elites bent on total domination." Each fears tyranny is the result.12
There are two views of the role of the individual in the mass: Most theorists argue that the individual is imprisoned and lost in it—alienated and without identity, agency, or association—though John Dewey said the individual may be liberated in the mob: The French Revolution "at one stroke did away with all forms of association, leaving, in theory, the bare individual face to face with the state."13 Then there is the elite individual who is separate, above, and immune from the mass.
Theories of mass culture are also separated in two: one insulting the vulgar taste of the people, the other defending the people against crass entertainment imposed upon them by industry. Each is generally disdainful of the culture that results.
Finally, economic theories of the mass bifurcate: the Marxist view of the masses as a force to eliminate class, the capitalistic as a market to be exploited by manufacturers, marketers, and media.
Mass theory is all that, but mostly it is profoundly patronizing, at times resembling moral panic, blaming society's ills on a singular villain—except in this case, the malign actor harming society is society itself.

Though mobs have provoked fear since Ancient Rome's dread of the crowd, the herding of people into a mass by sociologists, political theorists, and media began in earnest in the eighteenth century, as the armed and empowered "mob" terrorized aristocrats in the French Revolution, followed by the July Revolution of 1830 and revolutionary movements across Europe in 1848.
Mass theory began in earnest in 1895 with Gustave Le Bon. "The divine right of masses is about to replace the divine right of kings," he wrote as he lamented "the entry of the popular classes into political life" with "nothing less than a determination to utterly destroy society as it now exists," for "when the structure of a civilisation is rotten, it is always the masses that bring about its downfall." Le Bon blamed crowds for tearing down the old order on the night of August 4, 1789, when the French National Assembly abolished feudalism and noble rights. Individuals, he argued, would not have consented to such destruction but "by the mere fact that he forms part of an organised crowd, a man descends several rungs in the ladder of civilisation. Isolated, he may be a cultivated individual; in a crowd, he is a barbarian—that is, a creature acting on instinct. He possesses the spontaneity, the violence, the ferocity, and also the enthusiasm and heroism of primitive beings." Two centuries before James Surowiecki would laud the wisdom of crowds,14 Le Bon would posit the opposite: "that the crowd is always intellectually inferior to the isolated individual." Le Bon and his successors would contend that the mass is susceptible to—responsible for—totalitarianism, for "a crowd is a servile flock that is incapable of ever doing without a master."15
As theory progressed, "the masses" emerged as an economic and cultural class and as a set of political movements born of the Industrial Revolution, rising with Marxism and labor as well as populism and fascism, sometimes portrayed as a threat, sometimes as a heroic force. "The difference between the nineteenth-century mob and the twentieth-century mass is literacy," wrote John Carey. "For the first time, a huge literate public had come into being."16 By the mid-twentieth century, the mass would be domesticated as the "mass market," manufactured by media and exploited by Madison Avenue, Hollywood, Detroit, and K Street.
In 1930, following World War I and the Russian Revolution and amid the rising odor of populism in Europe, the dawn of a human rights movement, and the start of a population explosion, Spanish philosopher José Ortega y Gasset followed Le Bon's trudge toward doom with The Revolt of the Masses, in which he marked the emergence not only of the mass but of the mass individual, distinct from the select individual—the latter possessing values, the former none. "The mass is the assemblage of persons not specially qualified," Ortega wrote. "The mass is the average man. In this way what was mere quantity—the multitude—is converted into a qualitative determination: it becomes the common social quality, man as undifferentiated from other men." Ortega resented the power of the mass, for it "believes that it has the right to impose and to give force of law to notions born in the café.... The mass crushes beneath it everything that is different, everything that is excellent, individual, qualified, and select. Anybody who is not like everybody, who does not think like everybody, runs the risk of being eliminated." Ortega was narrating the rise of fascism in Europe. "The epoch of the masses is the epoch of the colossal. We are living, then, under the brutal empire of the masses."17
In the 1930s, E.V. Walter saw the theory of mass envelop everyone. "Before those years, thinking about mass behavior was restricted to dealing with the 'mass' as part of society, examining the conditions that produced it, the types of action peculiar to it and their implications. After that time, the characteristics of the 'mass' were attributed to society as a whole." As Walter noted, only in socialist usage—as the plural, "the masses"—did the word take on favorable meaning in association with the proletariat. Still, Karl Marx, too, took his swipes, differentiating the Lumpenproletariat as "dangerous scum, 'that passively rotting mass thrown off by the lowest layers of old society' "18 Nonetheless, the masses were to be society's redemption. Wrote Salvador Giner: "It is by this dialectical process of transformation that those people who were once the dregs of society or, better, outside society, a non-society (a 'Nichtgesellschaft,' as Marx called them in his early manuscripts), are destined to become the society of the future, the first fully human society in fact."19
Loneliness is the root of the mass and the cause of totalitarianism, theorized the scholar of the public and the private, Hannah Arendt: "Totalitarian government, like all tyrannies, certainly could not exist without destroying the public realm of life, that is, without destroying, by isolating men, their political capacities. But totalitarian domination as a form of government is new in that it is not content with this isolation but destroys private life as well. It bases itself on loneliness, on the experience of not belonging to the world at all, which is among the most radical and desperate experiences of man."20 For Arendt, to be public is to be whole, to be private is to be deprived; to be without both is to be uprooted, vulnerable, and alone.
Arendt found in Nazi and Soviet history "such unexpected and unpredicted phenomena as the radical loss of self-interest, the cynical or bored indifference in the face of death or other personal catastrophes, the passionate inclination toward the most abstract notions as guides for life, and the general contempt for even the most obvious rules of common sense." The lessons for these populist times are undeniable as Trump's base shows a loss of self-interest (what did he accomplish for them over the rich?), an indifference to death (defiantly burning masks at COVID superspreader rallies), a passionate inclination toward abstract notions (are abortion and guns truly more important to their everyday lives than jobs and health?), and contempt for common sense (see: science denial and conspiracy theories).
Arendt was careful to observe that it wasn't just the "masses" who followed Hitler and Stalin but also elites—as with present-day senators, judges, and business titans—who "did not object at all to paying a price, the destruction of civilization, for the fun of seeing how those who had been excluded unjustly in the past forced their way into it."21 Both sectors of society did not so much belong to a movement as they had nothing else to belong to, so they could devote all their loyalties to the leader.
I should note that Arendt distinguished loneliness from isolation, for as she pointed out, reading requires isolation and "all thinking, strictly speaking, is done in solitude."22 As Arendt scholar Samantha Rose Hill explained, "This is one of the paradoxes of loneliness. Solitude requires being alone whereas loneliness is felt most sharply in the company of others."23

Some blame culture for the mass, others blame the mass for the culture.
"At its worst, mass culture threatens not merely to cretenize our taste, but to brutalize our senses while paving the way to totalitarianism. And the interlocking media all conspire to that end."24 In 1957, Bernard Rosenberg came to the defense of the audience, while to other critics, it was the audience's—the market's—fault that their taste was so unseemly it was vulnerable to media's pandering. In 1955, Leslie Fiedler would lament that culture began its downhill slide with Samuel Richardson trying to please his readers, editing subsequent editions of his novels according to their wishes, so that "the comic book is a last descendant of Pamela, the final consequence of letting the tastes (or more precisely, the buying power) of a class unpledged to maintaining the traditional genres determine literary success or failure."25
"Everything has value only in so far as it can be exchanged; not in so far as it is something in itself," said Max Horkheimer and Theodor Adorno, who in 1947 coined the term "culture industry." Their complaint was less that culture was commercial than that it was employed as the opioid of the workers. "Entertainment is the prolongation of work under late capitalism," they said, "infecting everything with sameness," leading to "the withering of imagination and spontaneity." The aim of the culture industry is to normalize subjugation to authority and the assembly line: "Donald Duck in the cartoons and the unfortunate victim in real life receive their beatings so that the spectators can accustom themselves to theirs." Entertainment becomes "society's apologia" for dreams and promises denied.26
All that was said before the rise of television.
In 1985, Neil Postman wrote Amusing Ourselves to Death as "a lamentation about the most significant American cultural fact of the twentieth century: the decline of the Age of Typography and the ascendancy of the Age of Television." Recognizing in his way the opening of the Gutenberg Parenthesis, Postman observed many contrasts brought to light in the emergence of typography. "Typography fostered the modern idea of individuality, but it destroyed the medieval sense of community and integration. Typography created prose but made poetry into an exotic and elitist form of expression. Typography made modern science possible but transformed religious sensibility into mere superstition. Typography assisted in the growth of the nation-state but thereby made patriotism into a sordid if not lethal emotion." And typography's successors brought yet more upheaval, for culture "is recreated anew by every medium of communication—from painting to hieroglyphs to the alphabet to television. Each medium, like language itself, makes possible a unique mode of discourse by providing a new orientation for thought, for expression, for sensibility. Which, of course, is what McLuhan meant in saying the medium is the message."
In Postman's history, the penny press with its economic interest in timeless "human interest news" discovered the "power to engage." Next the telegraph changed everything as "the local and the timeless had lost their central position in newspapers." He paraphrased Thoreau, saying that "telegraphy made relevance irrelevant." That is, "wars, crimes, crashes, fires, floods" anywhere became news everywhere, no matter whether it was useful. "Everything became everyone's business." Next, television shuffled sense. "Embedded in the surrealistic frame of a television news show is a theory of anticommunication, featuring a type of discourse that abandons logic, reason, sequence, and rules of contradiction. In aesthetics, I believe the name given to this theory is Dadaism; in philosophy, nihilism; in psychiatry, schizophrenia. In the parlance of the theater, it is known as vaudeville." The "corporate state" of television "controls the flow of public discourse in America" and on it, "the fundamental metaphor for political discourse is the television commercial."27
Johan Huizinga presented his own version of a Parenthesis, not separating the Middle Ages from the Renaissance but looking the other way, separating the Renaissance from modern times, when "the great rupture in the notion of life's beauty occurs"—when art split into high and low. Then "one starts to enjoy art not in the midst of life, as a noble part of joie de vivre itself, but outside of life, as a lofty object of veneration.... The Renaissance had wrested itself from the renunciation of life's joy as sinful in itself, and had not yet introduced a new division between higher and lower pleasures; it sought unconstrained enjoyment of the whole of life. The new division is the result of the compromise between the Renaissance and Puritanism, on which the modern attitude of mind is based."28
That connection—between Puritanism and the mass—is revealing, for culture feeds entertainment to the masses and then looks down on them for consuming it. To be merely entertained, to value enjoyment for its own sake, is low culture, practically sinful. Shils, too, saw the connection. Mass theory, he said, "has arisen against a background of puritanical authority which, whatever its own practices, viewed with disapproval the pleasures of the mass of the population and all that seemed to distract them from their twin obligations of labor and obedience."29 Added Rosenberg: "There is an attitude far more vicious than snobbery which converts the term 'masses' into 'slobs.' It is really distressing that so many philosophers, historians, psychologists, and other academics should also be irremediably contemptuous of the people at large." Rosenberg asked the key question: "By what right do we call high culture 'high'?"30
Critics like to think that high art is challenging—and that they are up to the challenge—while low entertainment is not. Mass culture "must provide amusement without insight and pleasure without disturbance—as distinct from art which gives pleasure through disturbance," decreed critic Irving Howe. In 1948, he called the movie theater "a dark cavern, a neutral womb" that is "one of the few places that provides a poor man with a kind of retreat.... Here, at least, he does not have to acknowledge his irritating self."31

The mass was a population to be exploited for political and economic ends. It was too large and too amorphous to listen to—not that anyone cared to—but with new technologies, it was not too large to measure. After creating the mass market and exploiting it for a century, media and their messengers began to realize the inefficiency of reaching everyone at once and turned to data to cut the mass into more targetable slices. Allied industries—political and mercantile, public relations and advertising, each working through media—relied on the new fields of market research and polling to assess the vox populi and measure the impact of their messages upon it. When advertisers shifted from product benefits (clean clothes) to consumer models (the Pepsi Generation), they needed to be more specific about the targets of their messaging. "People seemed to be bursting with unprecedented variety," said market-research pioneer Daniel Yankelovich—as if human beings were suddenly discovering their uniqueness when, of course, it was advertisers who were only then beginning to realize faint signs of their diversity.32
In the Harvard Business Review in 1964, Yankelovich proposed a method for market segmentation, advising companies to make and sell different products and brands for different people based not just on demographics—age, sex, education, location, income—but on attitudes, needs, taste, even self-confidence.33 Market researchers ran with the idea of segmentation and built the field of psychographics with no end of buckets to put people in. In 1978, Arnold Mitchell at SRI International developed Values and Lifestyle market segmentation, categorizing and naming consumers by their ideals (called Thinkers or Believers), achievement (Achievers or Strivers), or self-expression (Experiencers and Makers). At the top, Innovators could do it all; at the bottom, Survivors could merely get by. Elsewhere, labels abounded: Traditionalists, Hedonists, On Their Way, Established Families, Retirement Planners. To this day, product-development teams with Post-it Notes and whiteboards imagine exemplars of customers—High-Tech Harry or Sally Six-Pack—and ascribe characteristics to their lives and desires after, at most, conducting a focus group or a survey, but not truly listening.34 All the marketers did was replace one anonymous label—the mass—with more labels that mean nothing to the labeled.
Public opinion polling began with apparently admirable intent. George Gallup and Saul Rae wrote in 1940 in The Pulse of Democracy that "elections can never be the sole channel for the expression of public opinion."35 And so they wanted to engineer another medium for the public voice, and a scientific method of ascertaining it: polling. Initially, said Michael Korzi, "the poll was seen as a tool to give the common people a voice in government, later the poll became the sole measure of public opinion. After a period of time, public opinion came to be 'what opinion polls poll'; the poll was normative no more, it was descriptive."36 The poll carried the preconceived notions and biases of the pollster. Public opinion became the measure of a passive populace or presumptions about them, not of their active voices.
In the first issue of the journal The Public Opinion Quarterly in 1937, at the birth of the field, Floyd Allport warned against losing the perspectives of individuals and communities: "We cannot speak of the opinion of this public, because it includes too many alignments of opinion, many of which may be irrelevant or even contradictory."37 De Tocqueville cautioned against the tyranny of the majority while Gallup and Rae feared a tyranny of the minority: interest groups that could sway the whole public through lobbying. Lippmann worried about the susceptibility of public opinion to propaganda, but he also opined that masses do not hold opinions, for "thought is the function of an organism, and the mass is not an organism."38 James Carey disagreed, replying that Lippmann "conceived of citizens primarily, if not exclusively, as the objects rather than the subjects of politics." Carey believed the poll was fundamentally corrupting, preempting the public conversation it was intended to measure:

This notion of a public, a conversational public, has been pretty much evacuated in our time. Public life started to evaporate with the emergence of the public opinion industry and the apparatus of polling. Polling (the word, interestingly enough, derived from the old synonym for voting) was an attempt to simulate public opinion in order to prevent an authentic public opinion from forming. With the rise of the polling industry, intellectual work on the public went into eclipse. In political theory, the public was replaced by the interest group as the key political actor. But interest groups, by definition, operate in the private sector, behind the scenes, and their relationship to public life is essentially propagandistic and manipulative. In interest-group theory, the public ceases to have a real existence. It fades into a statistical abstract: an audience whose opinions count only insofar as individuals refract the pressure of mass publicity. In short, while the world public continues in our language as an ancient memory and a pious hope, the public as a feature and factor of real politics disappears.39

How might one envision proper politics now? William Kornhauser presented a cogent theory for the maintenance of a pluralistic society. In his definition, a totalitarian society is marked by the control of the public by elites, who are answerable to no one. In a mass society, elites and the public try to control each other. But in a pluralistic society, elites are accountable to the public and the public cannot be controlled by the elites because they "possess multiple commitments to diverse and autonomous groups." A pluralistic society is marked by belonging—to families, tribes (in the best and most supportive sense, which Sebastian Junger defines as "the people you feel compelled to share the last of your food with"40), clubs, congregations, organizations, communities. A pluralistic society is more secure and less vulnerable to domination as a whole, as a mass. In such associations we do not give up our individuality; we gain individual identity by connecting, gathering, organizing, and acting with others who share our interests, needs, goals, desires, or circumstances. When that occurs, in Kornhauser's view, elites become accessible as "competition among independent groups opens many channels of communication and power." Then, too, "the autonomous man respects himself as an individual, experiencing himself as the bearer of his own power and as having the capacity to determine his life and to affect the lives of his fellows."41 In short, a pluralistic society is a diverse society.

Diversity. By definition, mass media abhor diversity. Mass media as an institution imposes one image of the public on itself, which is fashioned, God-like, in the image of those who control media. The institution rejects that which does not conform as deviant: noise. It assumes variations from its norm must be aspirational: those who are not like us want to be like us. Economically, mass media seek scale—that is, one product to serve as many people as possible; thus, deviance is expensive. Culturally, mass media see conformity as insurance against risk: the more media are alike, the safer it is to make what we make. Politically, conformity is convenient, for it becomes easier to ignore deviance the fewer deviants there are.
Media inevitably revert to mechanisms of control through gatekeeping, licensing, copyright, and censorship. From the beginning, media have been built on scarcity—control of machinery, distribution, capital, space on paper, time in broadcast, attention from the public, access by gatekeepers, permission by authorities, and (allegedly) talent. And so, women, Blacks, Latinos, LGBTQ+, immigrants, the poor, the differently abled, and people holding minority views or in special circumstances have had to fight to this day for the slightest resource in media and never found anything near equity or justice in representation there, giving lie to media's claim of serving the public as a whole. The public, said NYU's Jay Rosen, must be "radically inclusive; if too many were left out or declined to enter, something was clearly wrong."42
Book historians have been working to uncover the role of women in print. Soon after Gutenberg, women in convents shifted from scribal work to print. The Dominican nuns of San Jacobus Ripoli designed and composed type, printing an Italian edition of the Donatus grammar in 1476. Women were partners with their husbands in print shops; they often inherited and ran those businesses. After Charlotte Guillard lost her first husband, a sixteenth-century Paris printer, she published seven books herself, then married another printer, and after he died, she printed 158 more.43 In seventeenth-century London, Elinor James was a prolific and provocative printer and writer, producing more than ninety broadsides, pamphlets, and petitions over thirty-five tumultuous years, encompassing the lapse of print licensing, the enactment of the first copyright law in England, and the Glorious Revolution and crowning of William III. "In 1689, she was arrested, tried, and fined for 'dispersing scandalous and reflecting papers' condemning William III for accepting the English crown," wrote Paula McDowell, who studied James' petitions to kings and Parliament for what they tell us about the printing trade. As a woman, James was not allowed membership in the all-powerful Stationers' Company, though she spoke for her industry when she petitioned authorities against paper and stamp taxes. She lobbied in favor of protectionist legislation to limit the number of printers and even for the government to provide salaries to those in the trade, warning that without such support printers might resort to publishing treason. "Printing is not a Trade as other Trades are," James wrote, "but is an Art and Mistery that ought ... not to be made so common, as that it should be slighted and trampled under Foot."44
Women were authors. Women were patrons. Margaret Beaufort, mother of Henry VII, commissioned various books from England's first printer, William Caxton.45 Women became librarians, especially starting in the early twentieth century. Women were readers, a market eventually sought after by publishers of books, newspapers, and especially magazines. As such, said Kate Ozment, women "were in turn the producers of meaning."46 In 1998, book historian Leslie Howsam proposed another agenda: Rather than simply "restore female voices to the narrative of the rise of printing and the flourishing of print culture, I would like to see book historians focus on the gender identity of the book itself, both as physical object and as cultural product." She maintained that the book is a gendered object that should be examined in terms of patriarchy, power, discipline, and possession. Access to the press and the public beyond has been controlled by men and "by neglecting to consider gender these models are erroneously defaulted male."47
The history of Black Americans in printing and publishing is made difficult to unearth because so much work was lost, not having made it to print or not having been valued and saved. As for books, Joanna Brooks has estimated that "apart from slave narratives published during the abolitionist movement, fewer than thirty such titles by authors of African descent were published in Great Britain and North America in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries."48 In 2002, Henry Louis Gates discovered and published what might have been the first novel by a Black woman who was enslaved, The Bondwoman's Narrative, which he found as an unpublished manuscript at an antiquarian auction.49
William Grimes was the first Black American to receive copyright for a full-length book—thus at least receiving tacit acknowledgement of his rights as a citizen, though Connecticut's constitution still did not grant him the vote. Grimes had endured ten slaveholders, one of whom sold his labor to a printer in Savannah, Georgia, and so he knew the trade. He ended his autobiography and the story of his escape from slavery with a vivid allusion to print and page: "If it were not for the stripes on my back which were made while I was a slave, I would in my will, leave my skin a legacy to the government, desiring that it might be taken off and made into parchment, and then bind the constitution of glorious happy and free America. Let the skin of an American slave bind the charter of American Liberty."50 Grimes "was challenging the sacred status of print in Western culture," wrote Susanna Ashton. She said this coda was "an opportunity for him to display slavery's literal and figurative inscription" on his body. "By boldly asserting his rights of intellectual property he was, in effect, cauterizing the injuries slavery had imprinted upon him. His experiences with how print culture could both entrench and unseat a system that enslaved him lent Grimes language both figurative and literal to shape not only his expressions but his actions." Ashton noted the added inhumanity of a printer exploiting enslaved labor in a shop that produced "titles, texts, newspapers, and legal documents promoting slaves' own bondage."51
Newspaper publishers exploited the slave trade for profit even as they editorialized for American principles of freedom. As a newspaper publisher, postmaster, and official printer in Pennsylvania, John Dunlap produced the first copies of the Declaration of Independence on the night of July 4, 1774, and four days later published it on the front page of his newspaper, Dunlap's Pennsylvania Packet or The General Advertiser. In that same issue, he published the proceedings of the South Carolina General Assembly, declaring it illegal under penalty of "death without benefit of clergy" to "compel, induce, or persuade ... any negro or other slave or slaves to desert from his or their master, mistress, or owner" to fight for England.52 Two weeks later Dunlap's paper published an ad promising £10 reward for the return of a woman named Sarah: "Had on and took with her, sundry and homemade clothes.... It is supposed she left the county aforesaid about the latter end of October or the first of November last, with a negro fellow named PETER, belonging to Thomas Rabinjon, of the county aforesaid, who ran away about that time.... It is well known that the said wench was harboured and kept by the fellow aforesaid during the above interval, and it was supposed she was with child by said fellow when she ran away, and that they will try to pass for free Negroes and as husband and wife. The woman can read."53 The ad ran again in September. In August, Dunlap's Packet carried a notice to sell a "GENTEEL young Negro man, fit for either a single gentleman or a family, waits well at table, speaks French and dresses hair tolerably well.... Apply to Danile Coxe of Trenton, or of the Printer."54
Jordan Taylor researched the extent of American newspaper publishers' role in the slave trade by cataloguing advertisements to sell enslaved people or recover runaways, which typically ended with variants of the instruction, "enquire of the printer." These printers profited from the ads and sometimes acted as agents in sales such that "the slave trade stimulated revolutionary politics by providing a valuable revenue stream for newspaper printing," Taylor wrote. His database of 2,100 such ads from 1704 to 1807 (and the end of the Atlantic slave trade) referred to more than 3,400 enslaved people, each with a story as wrenching and reprehensible as Sarah's and Peter's. "Newspapers provided a model of the mental compartmentalization that Americans needed to embrace in order to avoid recognizing their own hypocrisy and complicity," Taylor wrote. "Printers spliced the world into distinct segments; slavery occupied one column and freedom another. Vertical and horizontal lines divided these items, drawing distinctions and signaling difference. In this mapping of the public consciousness, newspaper printers assured readers that the topics were unrelated. As long as readers could believe this and ignore the entanglement between slavery and freedom, both could thrive." None other than Benjamin Franklin "became the first printer outside Boston to broker slave sales regularly." In the thirty-seven years he published his newspaper, he printed at least 277 ads offering for sale at least 308 human beings. According to Taylor's conservative calculations, Franklin made £90 from the ads, enough to pay off almost half the £200 he borrowed to buy the paper. Said Taylor: "Print capitalism was slavery's capitalism."55 White-run mass media and journalism owe considerable reparations for damage done to Black America to this day. They also have much to learn from Black media.
Black newspapers gave vital voice to Black America before and after Abolition. The first was Freedom's Journal, published in New York from 1827 to 1829 by Samuel Cornish and John B. Russwurm. "We wish to plead our own cause," they wrote in an editorial. "Too long have others spoken for us."56 Frederick Douglass began publishing the first of his three newspapers in 1847, over the objections of white Abolitionist allies. "The primary motivation behind Douglass's decision was to demonstrate that blacks could and should be in the forefront of the journalistic campaign against slavery," wrote Waldo Martin Jr.57 Douglass explained why he chose The North Star as the name of his first paper. "To thousands now free in the British dominions, it has been the STAR of FREEDOM. To millions now in our boasted land of liberty, it is the STAR of HOPE."58 On the front page of the paper, Douglass printed this expression of the publication's own guiding light: "The object of the North Star will be to attack Slavery in all its forms and aspects; advocate Universal Emancipation; exalt the standard of Public Morality; promote the moral and intellectual improvement of the Colored People; and hasten the day of FREEDOM to the Three Millions of our Enslaved Fellow Countrymen."59
In 1944, Norfolk Journal and Guide editor P. Bernard Young Jr. wrote a "Credo for the Negro Press," vowing that "I Shall be a crusader and an advocate, a mirror and a record, a herald and a spotlight, and I Shall not Falter. So help me God." It continued: "I shall be an ADVOCATE of the full practice of the principles implicit in 'Life, Liberty, and Justice for All.' I shall be an ADVOCATE for these human and civil rights on behalf of those to whom they are denied, and I shall turn the pitiless light of publicity upon all men who would deny these rights to others. I shall ADVOCATE for my country, my state, my city, and my race, but I shall be ever on guard that I will not forget the greatest good for the greatest number while seeking deserving benefits for those who are disadvantaged by denials of them."60
Soon after, as television invaded every market in America, cities' second and third metropolitan newspapers folded, eventually leaving one or at most two winners. White-run newspapers then strove for objectivity—and against advocacy—a doctrine grounded in the economic self-interest of publishers claiming to be all things to all people, often as monopolies in their markets. They were influenced, Postman would say, by the machined voice of the telegraph and its child, the bland everywhereness of the news wire service. Their worldview was, in the phrase of NYU's Rosen, a "view from nowhere."61 I have long held that journalistic objectivity is a myth and an impossibility, separating the journalist from the public as if suprahuman and able to see the world cleansed of viewpoint, judgment, or opinion. Objectivity often manifests as false balance, painting climate-change denial, anti-vaccination conspiracies, and even racism as sides to be included in a public debate held on a TV panel or a public-opinion poll.
Wesley Lowery, winner of the Pulitzer Prize at The Washington Post for his reporting on police killings of Black people, quit after drawing criticism from the paper's editors for his opinionated tweets. Lowery wrote an op-ed in The New York Times calling out objectivity as a cudgel of white power. "Since American journalism's pivot many decades ago from an openly partisan press to a model of professed objectivity, the mainstream has allowed what it considers objective truth to be decided almost exclusively by white reporters and their mostly white bosses," Lowery wrote. "And those selective truths have been calibrated to avoid offending the sensibilities of white readers. On opinion pages, the contours of acceptable public debate have largely been determined through the gaze of white editors. The views and inclinations of whiteness are accepted as the objective neutral. When black and brown reporters and editors challenge those conventions, it's not uncommon for them to be pushed out, reprimanded or robbed of new opportunities."
Lowery called journalists instead to a standard of "moral clarity," serving the public by using plain language instead of anodyne euphemisms, for example: "the police shot someone" over "officer-involved shooting," "racist" rather than "racially tinged," not to mention "liar" for a president who lies. "What's different now, in this moment, is that the editors no longer hold a monopoly on publishing power," Lowery said. "Individual journalists now have followings of our own on social media platforms, granting us the ability to speak directly to the public."62

Members of the public, in turn, own their presses now and can speak their minds, without journalists as gatekeepers. In the beginning of the post-mass age, there is perhaps no better demonstration of the power of the people's press than #BlackLivesMatter. The hashtag was created in 2013 by Alicia Garza, Patrisse Cullors, and Opal Tometi in response to George Zimmerman's acquittal in his shooting of Trayvon Martin. In the shameful, continuing, litany of police crimes against Black people, the hashtag rose in use after the death of Eric Garner at the hands of New York Police, where it became associated with #Icantbreathe. #BlackLivesMatter exploded and became the rallying cry of a movement after the shooting death of Michael Brown by Darren Wilson in Ferguson, Missouri, and the protests that spread across the country when the police officer was not indicted. After the murder of George Floyd in 2020, the movement, its hashtag, and its protests spread around the world.63
On social media, witnesses, victims, activists, and concerned citizens can identify themselves with the notion put forth in a hashtag, assemble around it, instill it with meaning, and act. In their book #HashtagActivism, Sarah Jackson, Moya Bailey, and Brooke Foucault Welles placed #BlackLivesMatter in a larger context of both gender and racial justice, comparing the movement to the work and impact of Black investigative journalist Ida B. Wells. They asserted that social media, particularly Twitter, "have given ordinary people the power to report stories as they unfold and to contextualize these stories within marginalized experience and knowledge."64 Researchers Deen Freelon, Charlton McIlwain, and Meredith Clark dug deeper into #BlackLivesMatter itself, studying millions of tweets and related websites in 2014 and 2015. They compared #BlackLivesMatter to other online movements—the Arab Spring, #OccupyWallStreet, the Indignados—but claimed these differences: #BlackLivesMatter "demands specific forms of redress for one relatively well-defined political/legal/policy issue" rather than the diffuse goals of the others and also "aims mainly to improve the everyday lives of an oppressed racial minority."65
It would be a mistake born of the mass-media mindset to value Black Twitter solely on the attention it received in mainstream media due to #BlackLivesMatter; that would be to say that only things that gain the attention of mass media are worthy of notice. In Distributed Blackness, his trenchant analysis of African American cybercultures (and as he has taught me in tweets66), Georgia Tech Professor André Brock Jr. sought to understand Black Twitter on its own terms, not in relation to mass and white media, not in the context of aiming to be heard there. "My claim is ecological: Black folk have made the internet a 'Black space' whose contours have become visible through sociality and distributed digital practice while also decentering whiteness as the default internet identity." That is to say that it is necessary to acknowledge the essential whiteness of mass media as well as the internet. "Despite protestations about color-blindness or neutrality," Brock wrote, "the internet should be understood as an enactment of whiteness through the interpretive flexibility of whiteness as information. By this, I mean that white folks' communications, letters, and works of art are rarely understood as white; instead, they become universal and are understood as 'communication,' 'literature,' and 'art.' "67
In his book, Black Software, Charlton McIlwain, an NYU provost and one of the authors of the #BlackLivesMatter paper above, laid out the captivating oral history of many attempts to stake out Black spaces in the early days of online by those he named the Vanguard. "They were black folks who, from the mid-1970s through the 1990s, used, built, and developed computing technology, digital networks, and online communities that furthered the interests of black people throughout the African diaspora." He continued: "BBS. Usenet. The Internet. Yes, they were creating a whole new world. But it wasn't a question about if and when racism would rear its ugly head in this new world. Racism, fueled by anti-blackness, was already there when it began. And if you were black, and online, your very emotional survival depended on your finding a respite in a new world that was, like the old one, built on, and permeated by white supremacy."68 The Vanguard built services including AfroNet, Universal Black Pages, NetNoir, PopandPolitics, and Black Voices. Some faded as specific technologies evolved; others grew to become valuable but then were subsumed by big, white-run tech companies.69
What could make Twitter different? Perhaps it is the scale of it: the impossibility for anyone—even the company's owners—to claim control of its endless variety of communities. Or perhaps it is that its users invent how they will use it together. A true platform grants its users the power to reimagine it, to find uses its technologists did not plan. In any case, as Brock made clear, Black users fenced off their own spaces on Twitter, demonstrating, as McIlwain's Vanguard did in their time, their own technological, social, and cultural expertise. "Even when positively argued from a political-economic perspective, Black digital practices receive short shrift," Brock said. "They are limited to being rebellious and resistant, commoditized and branded, or they are seen as (futile) attempts at seeking authentic representation in a white-dominated media sphere." Brock wrote about—I love his choice of words—the "jouissance" ("a conceptually rich word describing an excess of life") in Black Twitter's "libidinal economy" (which "provides a path toward conceptualizing Black technology use as a space for mundanity, banality, and the celebration of making it through another day"). Brock called Black Twitter "an online gathering (not quite a community)." It is most certainly not "a low-class, undifferentiated mass," which is how W.E.B. Du Bois described white American culture's characterization of Black America. We must not fall into that trap by treating Black Twitter as a singular public, another mass. Brock warned: "That Black Twitter is often portrayed as representative of the entire Black community despite the heterogeneity of Black culture speaks to the power of American racial ideology's framing of Black identity as monoculture." Black Twitter is plural; it is many publics conversing. In his analysis, Brock incorporated Everett Hughes' "contention that ethnic identity is to be studied by examining the relations between groups coexisting within the society rather than assuming that a group can be studied without reference to others. That is, 'it takes more than one ethnic group to make ethnic relations.' "70
Brock made Du Bois' concept of double consciousness central to his thinking. "It is a peculiar sensation, this double-consciousness, this sense of always looking at one's self through the eyes of others, of measuring one's soul by the tape of a world that looks on in amused contempt and pity," Du Bois wrote. "One ever feels his twoness,—an American, a Negro; two souls, two thoughts, two unreconciled strivings; two warring ideals in one dark body, whose dogged strength alone keeps it from being torn asunder. The history of the American Negro is the history of this strife,—this longing to attain self-conscious manhood, to merge his double self into a better and truer self. In this merging he wishes neither of the older selves to be lost."71 The framework of double consciousness helps me, as a white man in America, to better understand my own privilege of being one with the majority and its once-dominant culture, not needing to code-switch among others, nor recognizing how others code-switch for me. I see that I need to develop a double consciousness to understand "mainstream" culture—the one I was taught was a "melting pot"—through the lens of whiteness. So, too, the framework of double consciousness helps me better understand the need for an independent space such as Black Twitter and how it has been embraced.

With this example and its lessons in mind, I can begin to envision a post-mass-media net built to accommodate many communities, many changing publics that can gather, converse, and act among themselves and in concert with others. This vision supports individual identity and the power to define oneself by one's connections with others, in communities, in publics. As John Dewey put it: "Liberty is that secure release and fulfillment of personal potentialities which take place only in rich and manifold association with others: the power to be an individualized self making a distinctive contribution and enjoying in its own way the fruits of association."72
It is to Dewey that Princeton Professor Eddie Glaude Jr. turned in 2010, after the election of Barack Obama—and before racist America's flagrant resurgence under Trump. Glaude wished to "devise means and methods of organizing an emergent public" that would accommodate "the complex experiences that inform the varied political commitments and interests of African Americans ... through new information and communication technologies, in intelligent and meaningful interaction with others." In calling on Dewey, Glaude said that "we must contextualize and historicize publics, and we must insist on the importance of the voices of everyday, ordinary Americans to democratic flourishing."73 To my eyes, Glaude and Dewey were foreshadowing what Brock came to analyze: a vision for building a society made up of multiple, changing, interrelated publics online.
By contrast, Habermas saw "the evolution of the public sphere as a process of degeneration," in the words of Hartmut Wessler.74 In her critique of Habermas' public sphere, Nancy Fraser maintained that instead of a decomposing public sphere, she saw a growing public sphere, made up of "a multiplicity of publics" as "an advance toward democracy." Like Kornhauser, she said "contestation among a plurality of competing publics"—women, Blacks, Latinos, LGBTQ+, Muslims, immigrants, the poor, the people formerly known as minorities—"promote the ideal of participatory parity." Fraser cautioned: "Where societal inequality persists, deliberative processes in public spheres will tend to operate to the advantage of dominant groups and to the disadvantage of subordinates. Now I want to add that these effects will be exacerbated where there is only a single, comprehensive public sphere. In that case, members of subordinated groups would have no arenas for deliberation among themselves about their needs, objectives, and strategies." Fraser called such groups "subaltern counterpublics in order to signal that they are parallel discursive arenas where members of subordinated social groups invent and circulate counterdiscourses to formulate oppositional interpretations of their identities, interests, and needs."75 Brock called Black Twitter a "satellite counterpublic sphere." He explained: "Twitter is the means through which certain Black users separate themselves from mainstream, offline, and online publics, while Black Twitter hashtag use reintegrates discussants in wider discourses across the platform. Twitter makes this satellite public sphere possible in ways that other social networking services or even predecessor communication technologies have not by promoting the public discursive actions of a public sphere."76
Twitter is not the new public sphere. But Black Twitter begins to show a way to reenvision publics as additive, generating rather than degenerating society as a collection of interacting, interlocking, changing, diverse publics: not a public sphere or square, not a mass, but a pluralistic society. This is how the internet kills the mass (this and its attack on the mass-media business model). Twitter—odd, frustrating, idiosyncratic, enthralling, and ultimately doomed Twitter—is no savior. Black Twitter must not be burdened with salvation, either. But there are many lessons to be learned from Black Twitter to reimagine and support discursive publics.
One key to the establishment of Black Twitter, as Brock pointed out, was the use of the hashtag as an institution. First proposed in 2007 by Chris Messina as a way to bring together groups on Twitter,77 it was adopted to mark movements, to create call-and-response conversations, to protest, to joke, to organize otherwise diffuse information and discussion. The key to the hashtag is that no one owns it. No one can control it. It reverses the usual order of categorization: first comes the hashtag, then people contribute content to it, thereby labeling that content—news, eyewitness reports, text, photos, ideas, jokes, answers to questions. In doing so, those users imbue the hashtag with its meaning. It is bottom-up, not top-down, a progressive and emergent system. To support communities, we do not need coders and technocrats to prescribe and allow behavior. We need platforms that are open enough for people to make use of them as they wish. And we need hosts responsible enough to be relied upon for creating and maintaining environments hospitable to constructive community. One such experiment is the open-source, federated social network known as Mastodon.
Rather than concentrating on technologies, we should concentrate on our goals, our North Star. What has disappointed me about Facebook is that it lacks that North Star, a higher mission. It was built to connect people who know each other so they may share things. OK, but why? To what end? How might this make a better society? Mark Zuckerberg believes, as he told me in an interview for my book Public Parts, that "on balance, making the world more open is good."78 That may be fine as far as it goes, but not far enough. Facebook has learned all too often that its connections can be exploited by malevolent actors. Facebook's response was to create a series of "community standards" that are expressions of what thou shalt not do, stated in the negative. In 2020, at great expense, it created an Oversight Board to adjudicate disputes about the removal of content. When I asked the board's leadership what higher order, other than Facebook's statutes, they would call upon, they said human rights.79 Between Facebook's detailed statutes and the grand canons of human rights is a deep canyon I wish Facebook would fill with principles, with a covenant of mutual obligation it makes with its users: Here is why Facebook exists. Here is what we hope we can do together. Here is what we expect of you. Here is what you should expect of us. Here is how you may hold us accountable. I wish that media organizations would create similar covenants with the communities they serve: How will journalism serve our communities? How will it offer reparations for the damage it has done to those communities? What can we expect of each other? How will we be held accountable?
We need space where individuals may safely declare their own identities so they may find others who share their sense of self, their circumstances, their goals and desires. Informed by Arendt's diagnosis of the ills of atomized mass society and Kornhauser's prescription for a pluralistic society, I wish for the means for people to find that they are not alone, that they belong, that they have connections with communities and their support. I wish for a place where people may tell their own stories and share their needs with whom they like in an environment that is maintained so that they need not fear harassment. I would like to connect not only with people like me but also with people not like me, so I may, with their permission, learn more about their lives and perspectives. I want a place where people can ask for help and others may offer it. I want a place where standards and norms of behavior are negotiated and maintained by communities with the support of the platforms that play host to them, where trolling, harassment, and manipulation through disinformation are not tolerated. I want a place where many communities can flourish and discuss and debate, where they can have fun and solve problems, where they can collaborate to common ends, where they can be constructive. I want a place where people are not dismissed as a mass or a minority but are heard with dignity and valued for themselves. And I want the people there to act as if they deserve respect.
Technology will not give this world to us. We should not want companies to ordain and create it; they are unqualified. We must exploit their tools—or better, open-source tools—to build that world ourselves—to rebuild the sense of community we lost inside the Parenthesis. We have no greater responsibility to each other. I began this chapter with the words of sociologist Raymond Williams, and I will end with him: "A culture, while it is being lived, is always in part unknown, in part unrealized.... Wherever we have started from, we need to listen to others who started from a different position. We need to consider every attachment, every value, with our whole attention; for we do not know the future, we can never be certain of what may enrich it; we can only, now, listen to and consider whatever may be offered and take up what we can."80







19
Creativity and Control
... by the reading of which many persons, heedless of their own salvation, fall wretchedly entangled in the snares of error and are dragged headlong into the pit of eternal damnation.
— Pope Sixtus V1

Where there is much desire to learn, there of necessity will be much arguing, much writing, many opinions; for opinion in good men is but knowledge in the making.
— John Milton2

Scribes objected to printing, newspapers to radio, print to television, journalists to bloggers, and media of all sorts to the internet, at each stage conspiring with similarly challenged institutions—monarchs, prelates, politicians, industries, and elites—to control any new means of communication, conversation, and creativity that could enable more voices to speak and be heard. Their modes of control have been many: censorship, criminalization, banning and burning (of books as well as their authors, publishers, and printers), licensing, copyright, protectionist laws, moral condemnation, and critical belittling. Their motives are almost as numerous: to profit, to disadvantage competitors, to maintain scarcity, to ingrain and uphold in the public mind ideological or religious values and orthodoxy, to stifle political threats, to protect the public and its morals from itself, or to perpetuate inequities of race, sex, religion, or class. In spite of all that is raised against it, creativity perseveres. Then the creator faces one more hurdle: making a living.

Over time, much of the reflex to censor and control expression is a product of the third-person effect. Coined in a chatty academic paper by sociologist W. Phillips Davison in 1983, the third-person effect "predicts that people will tend to overestimate the influence that mass communications have on the attitudes and behavior of others.... Its greatest impact will not be on 'me' or 'you,' but on 'them'—the third persons."3 The third-person effect is the conviction that everyone else, the ordinary people, are vulnerable to the influences of disinformation, advertising, pornography, immorality in movies, violence in television and games, racism or misogyny in song lyrics, hate or conspiracies in social media, and media in general—but I am somehow immune, which puts me in the position to prescribe their protection.
Since Davison's coinage, scores of experiments and papers have gathered volumes of evidence to support and extend his hypothesis. A 1992 study of high-school students found "attitudes toward censorship were significantly correlated with authoritarianism, conservatism, traditional family ideology, and religiosity."4 The more undesirable the message, the greater the tendency to believe others are vulnerable to it (and the greater the tendency to believe that one is immune oneself).5 Researchers found that better-educated people can be more likely to exhibit the third-person effect "since they tend to consider themselves more knowledgeable, if not generally superior, than others."6
Call this snobbery or call it paternalism, the effect is the same: "People who perceive that they or others lack the common sense to defend themselves against the harmful effects of the content are more likely to advocate censorship. By contrast, many individual users of potentially harmful media content may defend their use by stressing that they themselves and others are smart enough not to be affected by the exposure." So said communications scholars who in 2001 had college students evaluate violent and misogynistic rap and metal lyrics while answering questions to indicate their level of paternalism. A correlation between paternalism and censorship was one finding. Another was that the more people already consume the content in question, the less likely they are to think it harmful to themselves or others, and the less likely they are to seek censorship—that is, if I consume this content, then it must be okay and government and other busybodies should keep their censorial mitts off my stuff.7
Researchers examined what communications scholar Richard Perloff called the "social-distance corollary," which says that the stranger the stranger is, "the greater the perceived social distance between self and others, the easier it is to assume the third persons will fall prey to effects that 'I' see through."8 One study found that subjects are more likely to feel superior to unknown "average" people than to people—even if unknown—whom they can see in a room; familiarity breeds respect.9 So there are gradients to the third-person effect. "Individuals tend to perceive that others in their preferred political party are less influenced by political campaigns than those in a different political party."10 Here is the essence of partisanship: us v. them, or as utopian socialist Robert Owen is said to have remarked in the 1820s: "All the world is queer save thee and me, and even thou are a little queer."11
Inherent in this research into the third-person effect is its inverse, the first-person effect, the self-serving bias that places the me above the other, making me feel better about myself and giving me at least the illusion of control. It is a variant of the better-than-average effect in which researchers find the majority of people are prone to consider themselves better than average in a wide range of characteristics—rational versus irrational, sensitive versus insensitive, friendly versus unfriendly, intelligent versus unintelligent, adjusted versus maladjusted, humorous versus humorless—never mind the arithmetic impossibility of it. "A department chairperson we once knew insisted that all psychology instructors obtain teaching ratings that were above the department average. No 'mean' feat," quipped a team of research psychologists.12 "Basically," said another research team, "people tend to believe that others are more negatively affected by media messages as a way of enhancing self-image." Psychologists call this "unrealistic and biased optimism"13 about oneself, or in psychologist Anthony Greenwald's term, the "totalitarian ego."14
As people tend to overestimate their own abilities and attributes, they underestimate the abilities of others in a phenomenon known as fundamental attribution error. Coined by Lee Ross, a professor of psychology at Stanford, attribution error says that lay people (that is, not psychologists) will often assign extreme motives to people's actions while not properly considering outside factors and one's own biases.15 In regard to media's effects, "people seem to use a very simple heuristic: Exposure equals influence."16 We see that today in the frequent assumption that merely being exposed to objectionable ideas on Facebook is enough to influence behavior, ignoring other possible influences and root causes. The essence of fundamental attribution error is what Ross called "the illusion of personal objectivity"—that my perceptions, beliefs, preferences, priorities, and feelings are realistic and objective; that once I explain facts, I will be able to persuade other reasonable people; and that those who still disagree are unreasonable or irrational.
Recent research on questions related to censorship of media and social media reveal further fascinating findings. A 2018 study looked at the third-person effect in relation to so-called "fake news,"17 or deliberate disinformation, and "found that individuals regarded others as more susceptible than themselves to the potential harmful effects of fake news."18 A 2020 study found that Facebook users who paternalistically believed in the ill effects of hate speech on others, who supported content moderation by Facebook, and who supported government regulation of speech on Facebook nonetheless were not likely to flag such content themselves, though Facebook has made it fairly easy to do so.19 Do they prefer to find blame than be part of the solution that they themselves endorse? Do they find the role of the censor distasteful and wish it would fall to others? Do they recognize the difficulty of making nuanced decisions and prefer to just tell Facebook to fix it? More research is needed. We will not improve the public conversation until we are all willing to participate in negotiating norms, setting examples, and calling others to task for not meeting them. Civilization cannot be outsourced.
The third-person effect underlies not just censorship of media but media genres as well. What is a game show but an opportunity for us on our couches to feel superior to those who can't solve the puzzle, never mind the pressures of time and TV lights? Reality TV is a form tailor-made for our self-aggrandizement, confirming our own beliefs that we are superior to those feuding housewives or hapless bachelors or incompetent chefs we watch. The cultural genre native to television, the sitcom, is made for us to laugh at the foibles of our fellow man and woman behind the anonymous shield of the TV screen. And my field, journalism, is designed for nothing so much as heaping scorn on criminals, miscreants, lying politicians, thieving business people, victims whom we secretly blame for their misfortunes, people who give stupid answers to pollsters, and the other side in any argument. The mirror media put before us is warped to at once make readers feel they are better than they are and the world worse than it is. In a 1988 paper entitled, "I'm OK, but everyone else is going to the dogs," research found that Ohioans "believed that Americans' values and moral beliefs were on the decline but that their own values had increased in the face of the decline and were similar to those held by their parents."20
Should we then be surprised that we have carried over to the internet and the public conversation these attitudes inculcated in us by mass media? Online, we become the producers of our own reality, game, and news shows, standing in judgment over the rest of the world. No wonder the first generations of social media have been outlets for pent-up snark, condescension, anger, and resentment at the sudden knowledge that everyone else probably thinks of us what we have long thought of them. Should it come as a surprise that society's first reflex upon hearing more voices is to try to silence, censor, or control them?

The first recorded call to impose censorship on the press came only a decade and a half after Gutenberg's Bible. In 1470, Latin grammarian Niccolò Perotti appealed to Pope Paul II to impose Vatican control on the printing of books. His motive was not religious, political, or moral "but exclusively a love of literature" and a desire for "quality control," according to Renaissance historian John Monfasani. Conrad Sweynheym, a German cleric who, it is believed, worked with Gutenberg in Eltville, and his partner, Arnold Pannartz, became the first to print a book in Italy, in 1465. Two years later, they moved to Rome, where in 1470 they published an edition of Pliny's Natural History edited by Andrea Bussi. It was this volume that set Perotti off. In his litany of complaint to the pope, he pointed to twenty-two grammatical errors in the book, which much offended him.
At the opening of the Parenthesis, Perotti had been an optimist about this new technology of printing, having "once viewed as a boon to literature 'the new art of writing lately brought to us from Germany,' " which he called "a great and truly divine benefit" so that he "hoped that there would soon be such an abundance of books that everyone, however poor and wretched, would have whatever was desired." The first tech backlash was not long in coming, though, for according to Monfasani, Perotti's "hopes have been thoroughly dashed. The printers are turning out so much dross.... And when good literature does get printed, he complains, it is edited so perversely that the world would be better off not having the texts than to have them circulate in corrupt editions of a thousand copies." Perotti had a solution. He called upon Pope Paul to appoint a censor. "The easiest arrangement is to have someone or other charged by papal authority to oversee the work, who would both prescribe to the printers regulations governing the printing of books and would appoint some moderately learned man to examine and emend individual formes before printing," Perotti wrote. "The task calls for intelligence, singular erudition, incredible zeal, and the highest vigilance."21 We have no record of a papal response.
One might look upon Perotti's call as quaint—not unlike Yahoo in the early days of the web thinking its librarians could catalogue every single noteworthy site anyone could ever make. The idea that a moderately learned if vigilant person could approve and correct all printing, even just in Rome, betrays a failure to divine the scale of printing to come. Yet note well that Perotti was not in fact asking for the appointment of a censor. He was envisioning what would become the roles of the editor and publishing house as means to assure quality in print. He was looking to invent a new institution to solve a new problem, just as we must today, as the institutions of editing and publishing prove unable to adapt to the scale of speech and creation online.
The reflexive answer to such a new and crushing problem as quality in publishing or credibility on the net is rarely to suggest and build solutions, but instead first to worry, decry, ban, blame, and punish. Earlier, I told of scribe Filippo de Strata's call upon the Venetian doge to shut down the printers in 1473. In 1478, the town authorities in Cologne sued to stop distribution of Dialogus super libertate eccliastica, which defended clerical tax breaks.22 These first attempts to impose censorship on print came out of civil rather than clerical concern, though that would soon change.
In 1479, Archbishop Dieter von Isenburg—the same cleric who was defeated in the Mainz archbishops' war that led to Gutenberg's expulsion from the city, and who was later reinstated in office—asked professors of theology from Cologne and Heidelberg to judge a book by preacher Johann Ruchrath von Wesel. The theologians ruled against the book for its sympathies with the heretical Jan Hus; von Wesel was forced to recant in the Mainz Cathedral, his books were burned, and he spent his last two years imprisoned in a monastery. The professors appealed to the pope for help in their new task and Sixtus IV authorized the University of Cologne to oversee printing and its output. According to Catholic historian Nelson Minnich, at least sixteen books have been found stamped with official approval for publication from the university faculty, including in 1487 their unanimous blessing for the publication of Malleus maleficarum, the notorious book that became the basis for much prosecution of witchcraft. The next archbishop of Mainz, Berthold Graf von Henneberg, imposed prepublication censorship, requiring an ecclesiastical license on pain of excommunication.
In Minnich's account, censorship regimes spread about as quickly across Europe as printing itself had. There were further bulls attempting to control print from Innocent VII and Alexander VI. Emperor Maximilian appointed a "general superintendent in the Holy Roman Empire of things related to printing." Cologne forbade the reading of heretical work and Strasbourg appointed a commission to prevent the printing of anything "hostile to the pope, emperor, princes, states, or good morals." In a succession of decrees starting in 1492—the year of the expulsion of Jews from Spain and Columbus' voyage to the new world—Spain's monarchs prohibited vernacular Bibles, sequestered Arabic writings, and ordered prepublication approval of books by a university graduate of "good and faithful conscience." In 1497, the printer of Ovid's Metamorphosis was forced by the patriarch of Venice to excise "obscene illustrations and replace them with morally upright figures."23 Most of these censorship edicts included caveats praising printing and its gifts even as they feared and attempted to control its power.
A key moment in censorship came in 1511 with a battle of the books that pitted Johannes Reuchlin, a jurist and scholar of Hebrew, against Johannes Pfefferkorn, a fervent convert from Judaism to Christianity who had called for the confiscation and burning of all Jewish books, including the Torah. Pfefferkorn had come to Reuchlin for support in his crusade, but when Reuchlin dared disagree, Pfefferkorn accused Reuchlin of lacking fluency in Hebrew and of taking bribes from Jews, issuing the indictments in his book Handt Spiegel, which sold well in the first of the year's two Frankfurt fairs. Reuchlin felt compelled to respond and at the next fair published Augenspiegel. This was the first book to receive an imperial ban, at the hands of Maximilian, and became the subject of ecclesiastical trials—the first of which Reuchlin won—which were carried to the Vatican in 1514.24 The trials dragged on for ten years, but Reuchlin persisted. "For him," wrote Daniel O'Callaghan, "the preservation of knowledge was a civic duty irrespective of whether it accords with our opinions.... He believed only posterity could determine its value to society, a view that is as relevant today as it was in 1511."25
Reuchlin's Augenspiegel was a call for human rights, religious tolerance ("The Jew is one of Our Lord God's creatures just as much as I am"), and academic freedom—or at least rigor—and the need to challenge one's thinking with the arguments of one's opponents. Reuchlin favored the conversion of Jews but said that to destroy their Torah would be to derail the cause. "First: the Jews may say we take away their weapons and are afraid of them, that they outclass us in disputes, and outdo us in reasoning." Reuchlin stepped through a series of arguments about the need for expertise (how, he asked, can one dispute the Torah without being conversant in it?); the need to hear various perspectives in a dispute; and finally God's command not to cut down the tree of knowledge: "And although Adam and Eve ate death from it, God did not tear it out nor burn it, but left it standing till the present time, as we experience it daily." His defense of informed debate should resonate still. "What honour would the tried masters of Christianity achieve and in what light would they appear if the Talmud had been burned and was no longer extant. If the book, which they opposed, were no longer in existence, no one would know hereafter whether their arguments and opposing discourses were true or erroneous."26 Likely informed by the Reuchlin problem, the Vatican Fifth Lateran Council in 1515 mandated prepublication censorship of all printed books by church authorities.
Then came Luther. After he and Pope Leo X held bonfires of each other's words—with Leo banning all of Luther's books in 1520—lists of forbidden publications spread from England in 1526 and across Europe before the Vatican held the Council of Trent beginning in 1545 and established the Congregation of the Inquisition in 1557, charged with studying the problem of dangerous books and issuing its Index Librorum Prohibitorum (Index of Forbidden Books) in 1559. The council expanded the Church's scope of censorship past heresy—a thought crime—to works deemed erroneous, "scandalous, offensive to pious ears, rash, schismatic, seditious and blasphemous ... tinged with paganism ... likely to corrupt sound morals."27 "Lascivious or obscene" writing, and books on "divination, fortune telling, sorcery, magic, and the mixture of poisons" met this fate. Even medical books written by Protestants were caught up in the Index' net. Among the authors condemned to the Index: Erasmus, Luther and his colleague Philipp Melanchthon, John Calvin, John Foxe (author of the Book of Martyrs), Thomas Cranmer (archbishop of Canterbury under Henry VIII), René Descartes, Francis Bacon, Honoré de Balzac, Edward Gibbon (author of Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire), John Locke, Thomas Hobbes, Montesquieu, Immanuel Kant, Denis Diderot (editor of the Encyclopedie), John Stuart Mill, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Montaigne, Voltaire, Emile Zola, George Sand, and Jean-Paul Sartre. The Index, like the Counter-Reformation that spawned it, came too late. "By the time the Index was even contemplated, the movements that would eventually unravel the Catholic Church's domination of Christendom were already well underway," wrote librarian Max Lenard. "Protestantism, free thought, free expression, and the mass media are here to stay, and there is very little that any church can do to stifle these overpowering social forces."28
In 1763, the philosopher and encyclopedist Diderot mocked the censorial reflex. "Line all your borders with soldiers, sir, arm them with bayonets to repel any dangerous book that may appear and those books will—pardon the expression—pass between their legs or jump over their heads to reach us," he wrote. "I will not deal with the question of whether these dangerous books are as dangerous as some people proclaim; whether lies and sophisms are not sooner or later recognized and dismissed; and whether the truth, which can never be stifled—spreading as it does little by little, imperceptibly gaining the ascendance over prejudice, and winning general acceptance only after a surprising lapse of time—can ever be a real danger." Diderot warned of unintended consequences: "What I do see, however, is that the harsher the proscription, the more it raises the price of the book, the more it stimulates the curiosity to read it, the greater the number of buyers, and the more widely it is read.... Whenever a judgment is proclaimed against a book, printers say, 'Good, another edition!' "29 The Index continued for four centuries, until 1966, boosting the sales of many a bestseller along its way.
The focus of censorship and its execution shifted from church to state, though the two were often indistinguishable. Fifty years after William Caxton brought the first press to England in 1529, Henry VIII issued his list of forbidden works, aimed as much at sermons as at books.30 In his subsequent acts and those of his heirs, one sees increasing desperation to deal with the Sisyphean task of controlling speech at greater scale. In 1530, Henry escalated, requiring the licensing of books concerning Scripture and then, in 1538 all books. In the 1540s, his proclamations "increasingly blame social unrest specifically on the press, which becomes demonized as the power that corrupts the kingdom by perverting 'the people,' infecting them in ways that inevitably threaten the body politic," said English professor Harold Weber. "All of these proclamations depend on a characterization of 'the people' that assumes their inferiority, their unreadiness to participate in the world of print." In Weber's telling, the crown was frightened by print as a technology and by its mystery and sweep ("books increased to an infinite number and unknown diversities of titles and names," said Henry's 1546 proclamation). Print created "a power that the state cannot entirely understand or control." Richard Atkyns, who according to Weber was an "abysmal" historian of printing, published a pamphlet in 1664 supporting the state's control of the press and warning that in the time of Henry, Edward, and Mary, printers "fill'd the Kingdom with so many Books, and the Brains of the People with so many contrary Opinions, that these Paper-pellets became as dangerous as Bullets."31
Among the first martyrs to censorship of print was William Tyndale, Protestant theologian and translator of the first Bible printed in English. With his translation, Tyndale was the source of ninety-three percent of the language of the King James Bible's New Testament, according to Melvyn Bragg. Tyndale was also the author of many of the idioms that still enliven language today: "see the writing on the wall," "cast the first stone," "the salt of the earth, "broken-hearted," "clear-eyed," "the powers that be," "ask and it shall be given you, seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you." Declared Bragg: "Without Tyndale, no Shakespeare." Tyndale's Bible was made small enough to carry and hide in a pocket because, as he declared, "I defy the Pope and all his laws and if God spare my life ere many years I will cause a boy that driveth the plough shall know more of the Scripture than thou doest." The Tyndale New Testament was printed by none other than Peter Schöffer's son, Peter the younger. Thomas More, he of all seasons, attacked Tyndale for translating the Bible and called him "a hell-hound in the kennel of the devil" and "a new Judas" who was "discharging a filthy foam of blasphemies out of his brutal beastly mouth." Tyndale was hunted down in Antwerp, tried for heresy, then strangled and burned in 1536.32 James Bainham was accused of circulating books by Tyndale and Luther and was taken to More's house, where he was said to have been tortured on the rack, earning him a spot in Foxe's Book of Martyrs. More acknowledged imprisoning people at home but denied torturing them there. Bainham recanted but subsequently withdrew his recantation—carrying two of Tyndale's forbidden books in public—and was burned to death in 1532.33
In 1557, the Stationers' Company (which had been founded in 1403 to regulate scribes and illuminators, prior to print) received a royal charter from Queen Mary to oversee the "art and mystery" of printing. Its duties would include licensing participants in the business, everyone from printers to bookbinders (limiting their number for the good of the trade) and approving their books and content, to assure the control of seditious and unauthorized publishing.34 This amounted to government outsourcing the regulation of the industry to a private entity (which governments do today when they throw up their hands at controlling speech online and require platforms to eradicate everything from hate speech to "legal but harmful content"35). In Queen Elizabeth I's reign, an edict in 1559 "became the foundation text for all subsequent pre-Civil War regulation of the book trade," according to James Raven. It required all books to be submitted before publication for approval by the Queen via her Privy Council and a university chancellor. Ecclesiastical commissioners were empowered to approve pamphlets, plays, and ballads. Censorship was still accomplished under threat of physical harm. In 1579, tried for writing and selling printed criticism of Elizabeth's contemplated marriage to the Duke of Anjou, the unfortunately named John Stubbe and the coincidentally named William Page each lost their right hands to a butcher's cleaver.36

Three great, opposing characters exemplify the next stage of Britain's struggle over freedom of expression, this side and that of its Civil War: the poet John Milton, the publisher and censor Roger L'Estrange, and the parliamentarian and civil-libertarian John Wilkes.
In 1638, in the reign of Charles I, Milton traveled to Florence. "There it was that I found and visited the famous Galileo, grown old, a prisoner to the Inquisition, for thinking in astronomy otherwise than the Franciscan and Dominican licensors thought."37 The meeting inspired the poet to pay tribute to the scientist as his only contemporary named in Paradise Lost. The encounter also helped inspire Milton to write Areopagitica, a foundational defense of freedom of expression. Having inflicted many abuses in the reign of Charles I, the Star Chamber was abolished by Parliament, for all practical purposes ending the regime of censorship that had been in force. A rush of pamphlet publishing ensued, which worried Parliament, so it enacted the Ordinance for the Regulating of Printing, also known as the Licensing Order of 1643. The next year, Milton wrote his florid and eloquent polemic in protest, arguing that censorship would result in "the discouragement of all learning, and the stop of Truth." Milton's logic was not unlike Reuchlin's: that people need to exercise their intelligence so they may learn to recognize truth from falsehood. "That which purifies us is trial, and trial is by what is contrary."
Milton made practical objections to the licensing mandated by Parliament. With wit, he observed that any man who "is made judge to sit up on the birth or death of books" must be "a man above the common measure, both studious, learned, and judicious." Having to be "the perpetual reader of unchosen books and pamphlets" would be for such a man "tedious and unpleasing journey-work.... I cannot believe how he that values his time and his own studies, or is but of a sensible nostril, should be able to endure." In short, who would take this role except those who should not have it? As a Presbyterian, Milton feared a return to life under Rome's censorious list-makers and "their dominion over men's eyes," and he asked: "Should ye set an oligarchy of twenty engrossers over it, to bring a famine upon our minds again, when we shall know nothing but what is measured to us by their bushel?" Milton also cautioned against the scope of the task Parliament had set before these licensers, for they would not be able to stop at judging every book. "To rectify manners, we must regulate all recreation and pastimes, all that is delightful to man. No music must be heard, no song be set or sung, but what is grave and Doric. There must be licensing dancers, that no gesture, motion, or deportment be taught our youth but what by their allowance shall be thought honest." Milton understood that censorship could not but escalate. "Who shall still appoint what shall be discoursed, what presumed, and no further?"
In Milton's rendering of the third-person effect, he asked how Parliament could confer upon the licensers "or they assume to themselves above all others in the land, the grace of infallibility and uncorruptedness?" He scolded Parliament for having so little faith in the people. "For if we be so jealous over them, as that we dare not trust them with an English pamphlet, what do we but censure them for a giddy, viscous, and ungrounded people; in such a sick and weak state of faith and discretion, as to be able to take nothing down but through the pipe of a licenser?" Censorship "seems an undervaluing and vilifying of the whole nation."
There lay the core of Milton's argument. He, like Diderot and Brandeis, trusted truth. "See the ingenuity of Truth, who, when she gets a free and willing hand, opens herself faster than the pace of method and discourse can overtake her.... And though all the winds of doctrine were let loose to play upon the earth, so Truth be in the field, we do injuriously, by licensing and prohibiting, to misdoubt her strength. Let her and Falsehood grapple; who ever knew Truth put to the worse, in a free and open encounter?" He trusted reason, knowledge, and wisdom: "And again, if it be true that a wise man, like a good refiner, can gather gold out of the drossiest volume, and that a fool will be a fool with the best book, yea or without book; there is no reason that we should deprive a wise man of any advantage to his wisdom, while we seek to restrain from a fool, that which being restrained will be no hindrance to his folly." In other words, paying too much attention to and regulating speech for the fool may deprive the wise of knowledge. "Truth and understanding are not such wares as to be monopolized and traded in by tickets and statutes and standards. We must not think to make a staple commodity of all the knowledge in the land, to mark and license it like our broadcloth and our woolpacks."
Milton loved books not as commodities but as beings. "For books are not absolutely dead things, but do contain a potency of life in them as to be as active as that soul whose progeny they are; nay, they do preserve as in a vial the purest efficacy and extraction of that living intellect that bred them." And so beware the censor's sword, for "as good almost kill a man as kill a good book. Who kills a man kills a reasonable creature, God's image; but he who destroys a good book, kills reason itself, kills the image of God, as it were in the eye."
Would that I could stop there, presenting Areopagitica as a founding text of liberalism and Milton as free speech's lasting defender. But the discussion of freedom of expression, then as now, is never without nuance and complication. Six weeks after the beheading of Charles I and the fall of the monarchy in 1649—which Milton celebrated in a pamphlet—he was appointed Secretary for Foreign Tongues, charged with translating diplomatic letters, writing polemics in favor of Oliver Cromwell's administration, and approving certain books. Milton became a licenser himself. Areopagitica had been a defense of his freedom of speech, but not everyone's: "I mean not tolerated popery, and open superstition." By way of explanation, literary and legal scholar Stanley Fish has argued that Milton did not oppose licensing and "has almost no interest at all in the 'freedom of the press,' " but instead prescribed that we all become licensers in our way, "continually exercising a censorious judgment" as we decide what we will or will not tolerate.38 In any case, Milton has provided ammunition for centuries of defenders of freedom of speech. For that, I am grateful.
Roger L'Estrange took on the task of licensing with zeal. A royalist, he fought in the first English Civil War, was imprisoned under sentence of death for almost four years until pardoned by Cromwell, and spent six years in exile. After the restoration of the monarchy under Charles II in 1660, L'Estrange was appointed Surveyor of the Press and later Licenser of the Press, following the blueprint he set forth in his 1663 pamphlet, Considerations and Proposals in Order to the Regulation of the Press. The nation having endured regicide, then restoration, before the Glorious Revolution yet to come, it was not difficult for L'Estrange to make the case for the perils of print: "That Spirit of Hypocrisie, Scandal, Malice, Error, and Illusion that Actuated the Late Rebellion." Specifically, he pointed to the Farewell Sermons published by nonconformist Puritans: "By these Arts, and Practices, the Faction works upon the Passions and Humours of the Common-People; and when they shall have put Mischief into their Hearts, their next Business is to put Swords in their Hands, and to Engage them in a direct Rebellion."
In his plan, L'Estrange proposed limiting the number of printers and their journeymen to a manageable scale for control—from sixty to twenty or twenty-four shops—buying out other printers with money raised by fining those who had published the Farewell Sermons. He decided which agencies, church or state, should license various genres of books. He listed the many media roles to be regulated: author, corrector, printer, letter-founder, stitcher, binder, hawker, peddler, ballad-singer, hackney-coachman, mariner. He concerned himself, too, with the underlying machinery of the industry, even "those who make Nutts, and Spindles for the Presses." L'Estrange proposed that printing shops should be forbidden back doors for escape. And he set punishments: "Pillory, Stocks, Whipping, Carting, Stigmatizing, Disablement to bear Office, or Testimony. Publique Recantation, standing under the Gallows with a Rope about the Neck, at a Publique Execution.... For the Authors, nothing can be too Severe, that stands with Humanity, and Conscience. First, 'tis the Way to cut off the Fountain of our Troubles."39 There was the key to Charles' policy, according to Harold Weber: "defining the author as a fundamental object of punishment and agent of transgression, restricting public access to matters of state by fixing responsibility for the dispersed power of the printed word in the author."40
L'Estrange was himself a prolific author of pamphlets, including a 1660 attack on Milton, No Blinde Guides. For three years, from 1663 to 1666, L'Estrange held a royal monopoly on printed news and later published his own newspaper, the Observator, from 1681 to 1687.41 He often wrote in dialogue form, sometimes casting himself as the character Trueman, who would eavesdrop on others' dialogues and then appear to set them straight. L'Estrange was defensive about his reputation, as well he should have been, for in the coffeehouses and print shops of London he was given the nickname Crackfart.
L'Estrange lost his job in 1679, when press censorship once again lapsed, leading to another sharp increase in pamphlet publishing. Licensing lapsed once and for all in 1695. Then publishing blossomed with not only pamphlets and books but a number of new newspapers.42 This is not to say that speech was yet free. Hardly. According to Max Skjönsberg, criticism of the Glorious Revolution was seen as sedition; Parliament passed the Blasphemy Act in 1697; journalists were often arrested in the early eighteenth century; the last printer put to death in Britain was John Matthews, tried for treason, in 1719; and plays were censored before their performance starting in 1737. Parliament also passed the Stamp Act in 1712, which not only raised revenue for the crown but acted as a brake on opposition publication. After the French Revolution, the tax was increased to suppress distribution of publications to the poor.43 Control of print shifted from pre-publication censorship to post-publication liability as publishers and printers were required to print their names so they could be found and held accountable. "That meant," Joseph Hone explained in his story of one rebel printer, The Paper Chase, "publishers could issue whatever books they liked, but would face the legal consequences if they stepped over the line. It was a subtle move. Legal definitions of libel and treason remained vague."44
Definitions of forbidden speech are not necessarily clearer today. Supreme Court justices know pornography when they see it. As I write this, the United Kingdom decided against requiring that platforms—acting in the role of a Stationers' Companies for all—should have a "duty of care" to remove not only illegal but also "legal but harmful" speech, which in effect would make such speech illegal.45 In Germany, a network enforcement law (Netzwerkdurchsetzungsgesetz or in merciful abbreviation, NetzDG) requires platforms to identify and remove "manifestly illegal" hate speech within twenty-four hours or face fines of up to €50 million. Each chills speech as speakers, publishers, platforms, and regulators are left wondering how to define and censor harm and hate. Then and now, the line is set not so much in statute but in the trials of rogue speakers.
John Wilkes was such a rogue speaker, a magnificent rake and a hero in the cause of freedom of expression. According to biographer Arthur Cash, Wilkes (a distant cousin to Lincoln's assassin) compensated for his infamous and unfortunate presence—crossed eyes, protruding jaw, missing teeth, bad breath, and a lisp—with charm, wit, intelligence, and drive that allowed him to lead historic movements ... and to act quite the libertine with the ladies throughout his life. Wilkes maintained that he needed only "twenty minutes to talk away my face."
Wilkes was elected to Parliament often, including multiple times when the Commons refused to seat him, and also became Lord Mayor of London. For most of his political and publishing career, he feuded with George III's prime minister, John Stuart, third earl of Bute, who was Scottish. Wilkes had little use for Scotland and it little use for him. Wilkes' first volley on Lord Bute was an unsigned essay in the newspaper the Monitor. One week later, in response, Bute began publishing a new newspaper, the Briton, excoriating the Monitor essay as "the vilest work of the worst incendiary."46 Less than a week after that, Wilkes, in turn, started publishing yet another new newspaper in answer, the North Briton. (Need I point out again how the early days of print were conversational?) Wilkes began its first issue with a thunderous defense of the press: "The liberty of the press is the birth-right of a Briton, and is justly esteemed the firmest bulwark of the liberties of this country." He asked whether anyone should be surprised that bad ministers would attempt to "blunt the edge of this most sacred weapon, given for the defence of truth and liberty?" And he lamented that earlier monarchs from the deposed House of Stuart (relations of Lord Bute) had appointed licensers of the press such that nothing "breathing the spirit of liberty" would "have a chance of being ushered to light."47
Bute's Briton ceased publication, but Wilkes would not let up in his print offensive, the denouement coming in 1763 with the forty-fifth edition of the North Briton, published after Bute's resignation, in which Wilkes—unsigned—commented on the king's upcoming speech to Parliament. (Wilkes happened upon his political mentors as they were reading a preview of the speech, which they'd been given as a courtesy.) "As a propaganda piece," said Cash, "No. 45 was outrageous—page after page of invectives and sarcasms against the ministers." The line not to cross was seditious libel—criticizing the king and questioning his primacy. Wilkes said he was loyal to the king and was criticizing instead the authors of his speech, his ministers. The Commons resolved that No. 45 would "alienate the affections of the people from His Majesty" and "excite them to traitorous insurrection."48
The king was furious and insisted on Wilkes' arrest. Problem was, the essay, like those before, was published anonymously. So George's ministers issued a general warrant, naming the crime but not the accused. Then ensued reports from spies, arrests of forty-nine printers and others, confiscation of papers, and the raid and ransacking of Wilkes' home. Wilkes and friends made a mad dash to recover the forms for the North Briton's next issue. As the pages of type were carried down a ladder from the printer's shop, they fell, and the sorts scattered across the cobblestones. Wilkes insisted that he could not be arrested because of parliamentary privilege; no one else in the kingdom enjoyed protection of their speech, but members of Parliament did.49
Wilkes the aristocrat became the people's hero. Broadsides, ballads, even teapots with his likeness or the number 45 sprang up. Mobs gathered around Wilkes as authorities led him to jail, unhitching the horses to pull his carriage themselves. His friends brought feasts to the Tower, where crowds cheered their support: "Wilkes and Liberty!" They grabbed copies of No. 45 out of the hands of the hangman as he was about to burn them on orders. They came to Parliament to show their loud support, to the consternation of members. "This is not the clamor of a rabble, my Lord," Wilkes once said of his people, "but the voice of liberty, which must and shall be heard." "They," he declared on the floor, "are the original fountain of power."50 One might judge Wilkes a demagogue and the crowd's response to him a spark of populism. In the words of William Strahan, an opposing Parliamentarian (also Dr. Johnson's printer and a friend of Ben Franklin), Wilkes, "with a Perseverance truly diabolical, is indefatigable in acting his Part as a publick Incendiary."51 But Wilkes stood on principle. In Wilkes, the middling people and the poor, the liverymen and apprentices and merchants found their champion at last. He stood for their rights, and they for his. As Wendell Bird pointed out in his history of free expression, "Wilkes and his supporters engineered the first mass petition campaign in British history."52 Wilkes would spend some years in prison and exile but in the long run emerged victorious in court and in principle.
Over his career in print and politics, Wilkes would earn credit for establishing a standard of freedom of the press and enabling journalists to report on parliamentary debate ("The modern newspaper had come into being," said Cash53); outlawing the general warrant; forbidding legislators from choosing who should sit among them; and establishing a principle of privacy and of freedom from unreasonable search and seizure (after he won a case against the ministers who ordered the raid on his home). He advocated for religious tolerance and separation of church and state. And he was the first in England to rise in the Commons, in 1776, to call for universal (albeit male) suffrage (a battle not won until 1884 for men and 1928 for women). Cash would credit him with inspiring much of the American Bill of Rights—"written by men to whom Wilkes was a household word"54—while Strahan would blame him for the American Revolution. On top of it all, Wilkes was charged with and beat the rap for publishing obscenity in a few lines of puerile verse. The Pennsylvania town of Wilkes-Barre was named for him, aside a colleague he didn't much like; so were Wilkes County, North Carolina, and its seat, Wilkesboro. On Wilkes' tombstone, at his bequest, are the words, "John Wilkes—A Friend of Liberty."55

"Censorship is ancient, but censorship for obscenity is not," wrote Charles Rembar. "The law of obscenity is hardly three centuries old, a life span brief indeed in Anglo-American law. It began so late in history because there were not many books until late in history."56 Rembar was the attorney who defended Lady Chatterley's Lover, Tropic of Cancer, and Fanny Hill, leading to the Supreme Court and a shift in American obscenity law. I quote from his essay in a remarkable, small volume, Censorship: For and Against. In 1971, publisher Harold Hart brought together a dozen critics and lawyers to comment on the controversy over a National Commission on Obscenity and Pornography, which had been empaneled by Lyndon Johnson and returned its report to Richard Nixon. The commission performed and reviewed original research, estimated the size of the "smut market" (nowhere near as big as in media's estimates), and surveyed experts (finding, for example, that psychiatrists, psychologists, and other professionals found no harmful effects, while fifty-eight percent of police chiefs "believed that 'obscene' books played a significant role in causing juvenile delinquency"). "In sum," the majority of the commission concluded, "empirical research designed to clarify the question has found no evidence to date that exposure to explicit sexual materials plays a significant role in the causation of delinquent or criminal behavior among youth or adults."57 Its recommendation was to repeal laws forbidding the sale of pornography to adults, following Denmark's example.
Nixon was apoplectic, rejecting the commission's "morally bankrupt" conclusions. "Pornography is to freedom of expression what anarchy is to liberty; as free men willingly restrain a measure of their freedom to prevent anarchy, so must we draw the line against pornography to protect freedom of expression."58 The exact opposite is customarily argued: that to protect a freedom one need tolerate the worst that freedom allows. The freedom Nixon wished to protect was the freedom to censor. He had tried to stack the commission by dispatching one of its liberal members, Kenneth Keating, to be ambassador to India, replacing him with Charles Keating Jr. (no relation), founder of Citizens for Decent Literature and frequent filer of amicus briefs to the Supreme Court, including in Rembar's Fanny Hill case. The latter Keating mocked the Court's standard from 1957's Roth v. United States: that to be obscene work must be "utterly without redeeming social value." Keating's response: "There are those who will say that if you can burn a book and warm your hands from the fire, the book has some redeeming social value." Keating declared a new low ebb in society. "I submit that never in the history of modern civilization have we seen more obvious evidence of a decline in public morality than we see today." He blamed venereal disease, illegitimacy, and the rising divorce rate on "the deluge of pornography which screams at young people today." Then he escalated: "At a time when the spread of pornography has reached epidemic proportions in our country and when the moral fiber of our nation seems to be rapidly unravelling, the desperate need is for enlightened and intelligent control of the poisons which threaten us."59
Keating provides a classic illustration of moral panic, which is well-defined by sociologist Ashley Crossman: "A moral panic is a widespread fear, most often an irrational one, that someone or something is a threat to the values, safety, and interests of a community or society at large. Typically, a moral panic is perpetuated by the news media, fueled by politicians, and often results in the passage of new laws or policies that target the source of the panic. In this way, moral panic can foster increased social control."60
As I write this book, we are witnessing rising moral panic regarding the internet, specifically social media, which is indeed perpetuated by news media in league with politicians, leading to social-control legislation such as Germany's NetzDG hate-speech law and the UK's online harms legislation and to a pincer movement from left and right against America's Section 230. Enacted in 1996, in the early days of the web, Section 230 was designed to both protect and improve conversation online by giving providers—platforms and publishers—a shield and a sword: a shield to protect them from liability for what the public says on their sites; a sword allowing them to moderate public conversation without increasing liability. There is no better explanation of Section 230 than Jeff Kosseff's book, The Twenty-Six Words That Created the Internet, which explored the law's history in legislation and in precedent involving pornography. As social media and the controversies around it grew, the left attacked 230 as a means to punish tech companies for failing to wipe out hate speech. The right attacked 230 because often, the hate speech being wiped out was theirs. In media's moral panic about their new competitors online, Section 230 became a symbol of power in the hands of platforms.
Amid a moral panic, it is difficult to stand up against rising cries that "something must be done!" That is why I admire many of the essayists in Censorship: For and Against, for speaking out against censorship, even if they might have been portrayed as defending porn. Wrote one-time presidential candidate Eugene McCarthy: "Who determines who is to speak and write, since not everyone can speak? Who selects what is to be recorded or transmitted to others, since not everything can be recorded?"61 (What would he conclude of the net, where everyone can speak and everything can be recorded?) Rabbi Arthur Lelyveld began his essay declaring, "I am against censorship.... It is always and everywhere an evil." Echoing Milton, Lelyveld wrote: "A censor is someone appointed to regulate public morals and judge public taste. And who is that paragon to whom we would be willing to entrust such authority? And who, if he be such a paragon, would be willing to accept the responsibility?"62 Max Lerner, a journalist and scholar, recognized the power dynamic of censorship as "an instrument conceived of by moralists, given precision by lawyers, carried out by bureaucrats" but ultimately in the control of elites who set norms "of dress, gentility, literature, the arts, education, and moral codes"—until the middle classes claimed their right to establish their norms.63
Rembar asked whose speech is worth protecting. "It can be reasonably said that the majesty of an organic charter of government was not intended to protect every insignificant mouthing, every worthless scrap of paper," he wrote. He acknowledged that "the current uses of the new freedom are not all to the good. There is an acne on our culture.... The symptoms constitute an unattractive aspect of our cultural adolescence." But he added, "Acne is hardly fatal." In harmony with Reuchlin, Milton, Cervantes, Wilkes, and Brandeis, Rembar judged the perseverance of truth: "We often hear freedom recommended on the theory that if all expression is permitted, the truth is bound to win. I disagree. In the short term, falsehood seems to do about as well. Even for longer periods, there can be no assurance of truth's victory; but over the long term, the likelihood is high. And certainly truth's chances are better with freedom than with repression."64
The tale of Censorship: For and Against ends with a coda. When the Commission released its official report, enterprising publisher William Hamling and his editor, Earl Kemp, created an illustrated edition of it with 546 pictures—dirty pictures, of course—offering it by a mailed circular and selling 100,000 copies at $12.50 each. As Robert Brenner told the story, Nixon was again enraged and ordered Attorney General John Mitchell to prosecute the publishers. He did, and they were convicted and sentenced to four and three years respectively. The Supreme Court upheld the verdict (the same day it held that the movie Carnal Knowledge was not obscene). The men served only ninety days each, but Hamling was forced to sell his publishing house and was not permitted to write about the case: censorship upon censorship.65 Two months later, Nixon left office in shame. Fifteen years later, Charles Keating, Jr., would be charged with fraud and racketeering in an infamous savings and loan failure. He served four and a half years in prison. How the moral do fall.
Beyond erasing disloyal or amoral speech, some censors believed they had a positive role in molding the culture, if from a side door. Robert Darnton's Censors at Work examined how French censors working on behalf of the king would burn some books but edit and endorse others, practically blurbing them. As the East German government collapsed, Darnton had the unique opportunity to sit with government censors who claimed they had made their nation "a Leseland, a country of readers," by planning literature in their socialist economy as farming and manufacturing were planned. They interfered in expression. They were agents of propaganda, censoring as much by the chill in the author's mind as by erasure. They also molded literary society by choosing, soliciting, and advocating for the books that would be rewarded with scarce paper and press time.66 Here, too, is a coda: After the Wall fell, residents of a village near Leipzig discovered that an East German book distributor had thrown ten million books in the dump. Along with the closing of libraries, as many as eighty million books that were no longer in demand were destroyed67 (almost as many as the estimated 100 million lost in the Holocaust, according to Oxford Bodleian librarian Richard Ovenden).68 Capitalism can be a harsh critic.

Now to one of the greatest challenges for creators and another mechanism for the control of speech and creativity: business.
On September 18, 1469, the German printer Johann von Speyer petitioned the Venetian state for and won a monopoly on printing for five years, as he was the first in town to ply the trade. Speyer died some months later and his brother Windelin took over the business, without the privilege. That is a good thing, for otherwise Venice might not have become the center of printing that would spawn Aldus Manutius and his magnificent volumes and academy and Nicolas Jenson and his exquisite roman typefaces. Such privileges or licenses were issued in other cities across Europe for printing overall, printing of certain books, and even the use of certain typefaces. In each case, it was the printer who was protected, not the creator. Even so, an official monopoly was no assurance of success, for as I said earlier, the first printers and investors overestimated the humanist market for translations of the classics and were stuck with warehouses filled with unsold books, their enterprises often ending in bankruptcy.
Writers tried many methods to earn a living. Martin Luther and other writers in the early days of print made no money from their writing; Erasmus did. Frequently, authors sold manuscripts and rights to printers and lost control thereafter. Some authors paid the expense of printing their works themselves—self-publishing—as James Boswell did with his Life of Samuel Johnson. Or they shared the expense and risk with publishers, as Montaigne did, buying his paper, or Adam Smith did, agreeing to share profits for Wealth of Nations. In the Scottish Enlightenment, authors often sold subscriptions to an upcoming book to assure a market before risking publication (not unlike today's Kickstarter, relying on customers' capital, paid in advance). Similarly, Mark Twain sold his first best-sellers by subscription. The Encyclopedia Britannica was sold to subscribers in regular installments. Charles Dickens supported and promoted the creation of some of his books through serialization in periodicals. Some writers received patronage from aristocratic benefactors—occasionally dedicating a book to a grandee in hopes of receiving a reward after the fact—or via government pensions or sinecures. Samuel Johnson, who was paid £1,575 to support his staff and himself for almost a decade to produce his Dictionary of the English Language, was awarded a £300-a-year government pension (after having mocked those who fed at the government trough). Printers and publishers often would organize syndicates to spread the cost and risk of printing among them, and not incidentally to control competition.
Readers bought books directly from booksellers, who often also played the role of publisher. Starting in the 1740s, readers also came to books through private circulating libraries, supported by fees, with as many as two-fifths of some printings going to such shared reading rooms.69 A high proportion of the customers and subscribers of circulating libraries were women, and so there was some gnashing of teeth about their moral degradation under the influence of "the common popular cheap novel" in "the gin-shop of [female] minds."70
In spite of exploring every possible revenue source and business model, still for many "spectacular failure persisted," said James Raven, a historian of the business of the book in England. "Since the earliest days of print, some of the most successful and famous printers and booksellers had ended their days in poverty." Printer John Dunton disguised himself in women's clothes to evade bailiffs. David Hume lamented that his three-volume classic Treatise of Human Nature "fell dead-born from the Press." On the low end of the market, Grub Street's hacks would hire out to sell their words to publishers by the page. Publishers often worried about the encroachment of peddlers, mercuries (female hawkers), chapmen, and itinerant sellers offering cheap print or other gewgaws, and sought official protection against them. In 1679, London's lord mayor, responding to petitions from ninety-six booksellers, imposed new restrictions, complaining that streets "are much pestered with a sort of loose and idle persons, called Hawkers, who daily Publish and Sell Seditious Books, Scurrilous Pamphlets, and scandalous Printed Papers."71
As the scale of printing grew, the price of each book fell, and the market expanded with greater literacy, demand, and choice. In 1468, just over two decades after Gutenberg's Bible, the price of a book was calculated by multiple accounts to have fallen by eighty percent against the cost of scribal manuscripts. In his quest to build the world's largest library, Christopher Columbus' illegitimate son, Hernando Colón, left information on the purchase price of most of the 2,000 volumes he acquired in forty cities. Jeremiah Dittmar's study of the data showed that more than half the books purchased cost less than a day's wages for an unskilled laborer—versus 100 days' worth of work in the 1400s. University professors earned as much as eighteen times the wages of a laborer and so they could afford many a printed book.72 Books progressed from a status symbol for the upper classes to one for the middling class but were still expensive to own. Matthew Sangster calculated that in 1814, a copy of Walter Scott's novel Waverley cost the equivalent of $150 today.73
Retailing progressed as well, from tiny bookstalls in St. Paul's churchyard to the emporium James Lackington opened in London in 1793, said to carry more than a million volumes under the grand name, Temple of the Muses. Publishers and booksellers constantly expanded their product line to serve new, specialized audiences, such as, in the mid-eighteenth century, cookbooks, how-to books, education (Logic Made Easy), travel guides, and small pocket books advertised as appropriate to read "at the hairdressers, in the carriage, by the billiard table or at the racecourse."74 The struggle between expanding the market and maintaining profitability persisted into the 1930s when Edward Bernays, father of public relations and author of Propaganda, was hired by high-end publishers to launch a campaign against the dollar book. With such cheap editions, H.L. Mencken complained, "buying books will cease to be the pleasant adventure that it has been ever since the invention of printing; instead it will become a kind of vulgar shopping." Mencken believed the problem was "too many books—most of them bad." Bernays concocted a Book Publishers Research Institute, which sponsored a contest to invent a nickname for the dastardly souls who borrow books from friends rather than buying their own. Entries included "Book Weevil, Borrocle, Bogswogglers, Greader, Libricide, Booklooter, Bookibitzer, Booknapper, Book Poacher, Book Bum, and Bookaneer." The winner was "Booksneaf."75 The dollar book disappeared of its own low sales.
From Peter Schöffer in Mainz to William Caxton in London, book publishers quickly realized they needed to advertise their wares to sell them. Publishers who printed both books and newspapers used the latter to market the former. According to Arthur der Weduwen and Andrew Pettegree, the first known advertisements in a newspaper came in 1621 in Amsterdam, to hawk a polemical pamphlet about the conduct of Spanish troops in the Thirty Years' War. In the first three decades of Dutch newspapering, ninety-five percent of ads were for the products of the press. Then local governments took out ads to announce laws and regulations—paid-for news, one might say.76 Advertising would expand to offer anything for sale, which in newspapers' early days in America included patent medicines that publishers themselves sold, as well as enslaved human beings. Revenue from advertisers would free newspaper proprietors from ownership and control by political parties and patrons, granting them a degree of editorial independence. With the advent of mass circulation in publishing, advertising would support media alongside revenue from readers until the internet changed all that almost two centuries later.

The core business model of print, built on the foundation of copyright, emerged soon after the lapse of licensing laws in England in 1695, as publishing flourished. "The elimination of the institution of censorship marked a new stage in the development of the public sphere," said Habermas.77 But the lack of control over the marketplace and the content of print led stationers and the Church of England to seek the restoration of official control no fewer than thirteen times,78 until the trade petitioned Parliament in 1709 with the claim that "divers Persons have of late invaded the Properties of others, by reprinting several Books, without consent, and to great injury, of the Proprietors, even to their utter Ruin, and the Discouragement [of] all writers in any useful Part of Learning."79
The next year, in 1710, the first copyright law, the Statute of Anne, came into force. It gave exclusive rights of publication to an author for fourteen years, renewable once if the author were alive; books already in print at the time received twenty-one years' protection. According to historian Peter Baldwin, the legislation was informed by John Locke's theory of property, which "portrayed property as wrested from nature by the owner's labor."80 Diderot eloquently made the case for the author: "What property can a man own if a work of the mind—the unique fruit of his upbringing, his studies, his evenings, his age, his researches, his observations; if his finest hours, the most beautiful moments of his life; if his own thoughts, the feelings of his heart, the most precious part of himself, that which does not perish, which makes him immortal—does not belong to him?"81 The statute itself declared it was intended as "an act for the encouragement of learning."
That authorial adoration is all fine. But the law's actual, practical impact was that copyright turned rights in a book into a tradable asset—property—which an author could sell to a publisher and which publishers could, in turn, sell or share. "The booksellers claimed to be supporting authors' just and natural right to property," Baldwin explained. "But in fact their aim was to take for themselves what nature had supposedly granted their clients."82 Authors gained the right to alienate themselves from their works by selling them.
Copyright laws followed in the United States (in states and then federally in 1790), France, and Germany. The United States did not recognize copyright for foreign authors until 1891—in the meantime, printers in America profited pirating British books—and it did not join the international Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works until 1989, more than a century after its creation.83 War continues to this day over the length of copyright. After the Statute of Anne, publishers held that once they acquired a work, authors and thus the purchasers of their copyrights should hold perpetual rights under common law. The House of Lords put an end to that in 1774, in a decision siding with booksellers Alexander and John Donaldson, who had been publishing books whose copyright had lapsed.84 That was the birth of a cultural commons, the public domain.85 In the United States, Mark Twain and Noah Webster lobbied for copyright to be inheritable and, they wished, perpetual; Webster took credit for Congress extending copyright from fourteen to twenty-eight years, renewable for another fourteen by an author's heirs.86 Samuel Johnson, on the other hand, argued that with everlasting copyright, books could not be improved upon.87 In 1992, one no longer needed to apply for US copyright; it became automatic. In 1998, the US Copyright Term Extension Act—also known as the Mickey Mouse Protection Act in honor of Disney's considerable lobbying—extended copyright to the life of the author plus seventy years. In 2003's Eldred v. Ashcroft, the Supreme Court upheld the extension's constitutionality, a defeat for internet activists against the entertainment industry.
Note that copyright at first covered books but not other text—letters, newsletters, or posters. Whether that was because these other forms were ephemeral or because lacking copyright classed them as ephemeral is a chicken-egg question. In their operation, encyclopedias were unbothered by copyright, compiling entries from existing works. "The book is not mine," conceded Ephraim Chambers, editor of the Cyclopaedia, "'tis every body's, the mix'd Issue of a thousand Loins." In a sense, encyclopedias were an extension of the commonplace book, in which since Roman times and especially in the Early Modern and Enlightenment periods, readers would copy and paste anything that struck them worth saving from books: quotations, poems, thoughts, drawings, recipes. Newspapers and magazines were excluded from the Statute of Anne's protection. America's 1790 copyright act covered only books, charts, and maps, not newspapers. Not until 1909 in the United States did copyright law include newspapers, but even still, according to Will Slauter, there was debate as to whether news articles, as opposed to literary features, were protected, for they were often anonymous, the product of business more than authorship.88
Scissors played a critical role in the debate over news and copyright. The US Post Office Act of 1792 allowed printers to exchange newspapers in the mail for free with the clear intent of helping them to copy and publish each other's news.89 Newspapers employed "scissors editors" to compile columns of reports from other papers. Editors would not complain about being copied because they copied in turn—but they would protest and loudly about not being credited. In 1902, The Charlotte News told of setting a trap for an unscrupulous scissors editor by publishing an item about a band of anarchists planning to assassinate "all the prominent rulers of the globe" and the arrest in Vladivostok of its leader, one Count Robhgien Ruomorf Laetsew. "If the erudite scissors editor of The Herald had read the 'story' carefully, he might have noticed that the name of the illustrious 'Count' was more understandable when read backward," as "we steal from our neighbor."90
It is ironic that newspapers—which since their founding in Strasbourg in 1605 have been compiled from news created by others—today complain that Google, Facebook, et al., steal their property and value by quoting headlines and snippets from articles in the process of sending them readers via links. The publishers receive free marketing, but that has not stopped them from cashing in their considerable political capital to lobby for protectionist legislation to try to force the platforms to pay for these scissored snippets: the Leistungsschutzrecht or ancillary copyright law of 2013 in Germany, the so-called Spanish "link tax" of the following year, Articles Fifteen and Seventeen of the European Copyright Directive of 2019, a "media bargaining code" in 2020 in Australia, and others being dreamed up elsewhere.
Newspapers' attitudes toward collaboration and sharing changed abruptly with the introduction of the telegraph. In the 1820s, New York's newspapers would partner to hire boats to meet incoming ships and get the latest news from abroad. In the coming decades, the telegraph would facilitate such sharing, reducing the distance and delay of the mails—and striking fear into the hearts of newspaper publishers, who worried that telegraph companies would enter their business. So newspaper companies formed competing press associations. (See Heidi Tworek's News from Germany for an international perspective on the fight to control world communications via wire services in the first half of the twentieth century.91) In 1918, in International News Service v. Associated Press, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the tort of misappropriation, known as the "hot news" doctrine: that a wire service could enjoin a competitor from publishing the facts of a news story while the originator's scoop still had market value.92 The ruling violated the logic of copyright, which holds that no one in an enlightened society may own facts; copyright allows authors to protect only their treatment of them. To permit anyone to own facts is to forbid knowledge, which is an abhorrent notion and impossible to enforce, outside the movie Men in Black. In INS, Louis Brandeis dissented. "An essential element of individual property is the legal right to exclude others from enjoying it. If the property is private, the right of exclusion may be absolute; if the property is affected with a public interest, the right of exclusion is qualified," he wrote. "But the fact that a product of the mind has cost its producer money and labor, and has a value for which others are willing to pay, is not sufficient to ensure to it this legal attribute of property. The general rule of law is, that the noblest of human productions—knowledge, truths ascertained, conceptions, and ideas—become, after voluntary communication to others, free as the air to common use."93

Let us consider the presumptions that underlie copyright. First is the foundational metaphor of property—intellectual property—and the idea that creativity is a thing, rather than an act, which can be controlled, owned, and traded by a creator. If one copies someone's creation or uses too much of it in another creation (there is no set definition of "too much" or of "fair use"), one may be labeled a pirate, thief, trespasser, burglar—rather than a fan, collaborator, or critic. The property metaphor might be appropriate for land, buildings, ships, and tangible possessions, but is it for such intangibles as creativity, inspiration, information, education, and art? Especially once electronics—from broadcast to digital—eliminated the scarcity of the printed page or the theater seat, one need ask whether property is still a valid metaphor for such a nonrivalrous good as culture. Culture is a good that is shared without diminishment, or as Thomas Jefferson put it, "no one possesses the less, because every other possesses the whole of it ... he who lights his taper at mine, receives light without darkening me."94 The argument usually made is that copyright is necessary to reward and support the creator, else the public would be deprived of their creation. In passing an updated copyright act in 1901, Congress declared: "Not primarily for the benefit of the author, but primarily for the benefit of the public such rights are given."95
Putting the author at the center of the story of copyright and the doctrine of intellectual property provides a sympathetic hero, warmer than cold cash. In lobbying for the Statute of Anne, Daniel Defoe said: "A Book is the Author's Property, 'tis the Child of his Inventions, the Brat of his Brains."96 In this chapter, we have witnessed the evolution of the institution of the author, when during the reign of Charles II, blame and punishment for sins and sedition in text shifted from printer, publisher, and bookseller to writer. "Texts, books, and discourses began to have authors ... to the extent that authors became subject to punishment," said Michel Foucault.97 Mark Rose said that with copyright, regulation of speech shifted from "public order" to "private right," yet it was still a mechanism of control, as copyright holders could "regulate and limit public discussion much as state censors had done earlier."98
The author, then, was as much a legal as a cultural construct. Foucault in his essay "What is an Author?" and Roland Barthes in his, "The Death of the Author," would kill off authors, separating them from their work and their creation and forcing us to delimit the role of the writer in a larger chain of cultural creation. Foucault asked us to consider what an author is, what works are, what writing is. "The author's name serves to characterize a certain mode of being of discourse: the fact that the discourse has an author's name, that one can say 'this was written by so-and-so' or 'so-and-so is its author,' shows that this discourse is not ordinary everyday speech that merely comes and goes, not something that is immediately consumable. On the contrary, it is a speech that must be received in a certain mode and that, in a given culture, must receive a certain status."99
Now, in this book dedicated to the restoration of the public conversation, I ask whether discourse has an author. Who owns a conversation? Who is responsible for it? One participant or the other? Only those who speak or those who hear? What of the subject of a conversation; if it is about you, do you hold rights to it, to own or to erase reference to it (as Europe's Right to be Forgotten permits)? Does recording a conversation and reporting on it, as journalists do, grant privilege to it? Should the publications or platforms that carry the conversation own a stake in it? Foucault said, "The author does not precede the works." Then is a book the beginning or the end of a conversation? Is an author just one conversationalist, who sometimes starts and sparks but often continues a conversation, as in Utopia? "In our culture, how does one characterize a discourse containing the author function?" Foucault asked. "In what way is this discourse different from other discourses?" Does cultural value reside with the author, in the property we call content, in the thought it rests upon, in the discussion it inspires, or in the relationships it mediates and reveals? Who can say where and when a conversation—unlike a book, inside the fixed parenthesis of its covers—begins or ends, if ever? When calling upon an author's text, what is piracy, what is tribute, what is a derivative work, what is criticism, what is fair use? And what of noxious conversation? Who has the right or responsibility to control that: government, industry, technology, society and its norms, or no one? In the rash of online hate-speech laws led by Germany's NetzDG law and copied by other nations, we see a return of centuries of government reflex to regulate sins such as sedition, blasphemy, hate, and evil through the control of speech.

The internet has eviscerated the advertising- and attention-based mass media business model, pulled the rug out from under the album-based music business, and undercut copyright now that copies can be made for nothing. Yet the net has catalyzed an explosion of creativity. Spotify's former chief economist, Will Page, laid out an impressive accounting of such growth in the Financial Times: In the year 1984, in the UK, music labels released 6,000 albums. Lately, streaming services release an equivalent number of songs—55,000—every day. Since Spotify launched in 2009, the number of British songwriters grew by one hundred fifteen percent and recording artists by one hundred forty-five percent. In 2000 the industry classified music into a dozen and a half genres; now Spotify tracks 5,224 genres.100 In Moral Panics and the Copyright Wars, Google copyright attorney William Patry calculated that performing artists received just eight to nine percent of revenue from music sales (record labels took about sixty-eight percent, digital services fifteen percent, credit card companies nine percent).101 Even with that lousy deal, the number of new albums released per year doubled in the first decade of this digital century. Music was the first creative industry hit hard by the net and the first to discover a path past its old blockbuster economy to a creators' and fans' economy. Book publishing and the news industry are still controlled by gatekeepers, though there is nothing to stop anyone from creating a blog, an email newsletter, a YouTube show, or a podcast (Page said 885,000 new episodes were posted in 2020, almost two new podcasts every minute). Some will make money; most will not. "The overwhelming majority of creative works don't sell much," said a 2019 policy paper from the Niskanen Center, "but the intrinsic pleasures of artistic self-expression are so powerful that people will engage in creative pursuits regardless of the economics.... There is no lack of new ideas in fashion, cuisine, and comedy despite the fact that clothes designs, recipes, and jokes do not qualify for treatment as intellectual property."102
In opposing an 1841 bill to extend copyright terms, Lord Macaulay argued: "The principle of copyright is this. It is a tax on readers for the purpose of giving a bounty to writers. The tax is an exceedingly bad one; it is a tax on one of the most innocent and salutary of human pleasures; and never let us forget that a tax on innocent pleasures is a premium on vicious pleasures.... It is good that authors should be remunerated; and the least exceptionable way of remunerating them is by a monopoly. Yet monopoly is an evil."103 Patry said we should see copyright as "a system of social relationships" and argued that "copyright is not an end in itself, but instead an end to a social objective, furthering learning."104 If that is so, then is copyright the best means to that end?
The old institutions and industries of creativity are built on controlling scarcity. The internet abhors scarcity in favor of abundance. How might we envision supporting creativity in such an environment? We need to consider moving past the metaphor of property. Copyright holders would disagree, especially large media companies. So would some blockchain fans, who believe technology allows us to enter an "ownership economy," in which everything is a digital asset with a digital deed.105 That idea strikes me as the last gasp of a Gutenberg-era worldview of content, containment, and control through ownership of intellectual property. Instead, in a time of conversation and collaborative creativity, we need new means to support the creation we hope to see.
In 2012, I led a series of discussions for a project with the World Economic Forum in Davos on rethinking intellectual property in the digital age.106 In their safe space on the Magic Mountain, the titans of media confessed what they would never concede back at sea level: that copyright is broken and in many ways irrelevant amid digital abundance. They still saluted the flag of supporting creativity, for that is the raw material on which their entertainment factories run. But their business models were largely unchanged: to sell creative product to audiences or to sell audiences to advertisers. We held workshops with artists, who were miles ahead of the corporations, already working in a web of social relationships, excited about the opportunity at last to meet the audiences for whom they wrote and played. When I asked novelist Paulo Coehlo, who had sold an estimated 350 million books, whether his readers would help him write his stories, he at first said no; "I am the author." But as he interacted with his public through his blog, social media, and video, he changed his mind. When he needed to understand more about fashion for a novel he was writing, The Winner Stands Alone, Coehlo asked his audience for help.107 For his novel The Witch of Portobello, he encouraged his audience to make videos about the characters; they made him a movie.108
In the WEF project, I concocted a framework for creative support I called creditright: not the right to copy text but the right to receive credit for contributions to a chain of collaborative inspiration, creation, and recommendation of creative work. Creditright would permit the behaviors we want to encourage to be recognized and rewarded. Those behaviors might include inspiring a work, creating that work, remixing it, collaborating in it, performing it, promoting it. The rewards might be payment or merely credit as its own reward.109 I didn't mention blockchain; but the technology and its automated contracts could be useful to record credit and trigger rewards.
For an example of how this might work, see TikTok. There I see the first glimmers of a new mechanism for collaborative creation that is native to the net as the sitcom was to TV and the essay was to print. One day a New York schoolteacher named Emily Jacobson shared the barest essence of a musical theme—an earworm—for the character Remy in Disney's Ratatouille. She dreamed of a musical. Others were inspired to write and post songs and dialogue, stage choreography, design makeup, even produce a Playbill for the dreamed-of production.110 In an earlier stage of the copyright wars, Disney—the force behind the extension of copyright to a century and more—might have sent a blizzard of cease-and-desist letters to Jacobson, her collaborators, and TikTok. Now, a more enlightened Disney worked with the fans and thus was born Ratatouille: The TikTok Musical, performed online by professional musicians and actors. They sold 350,000 tickets and raised more than $2 million to benefit actors out of work in the COVID pandemic.111 In 2022, Emily Bear and Abigail Barlow won a Grammy for their similar TikTok fan-fiction production, The Unofficial Bridgerton Musical, which seemed OK with the copyright holders until Bear and Barlow held their own show and charged admission for it; Netflix sued. No, this is not the future of high art, any more than Samuel Richardson's epistolary novels were. Nor is creditright a solution to culture's economic ails. It is but one idea for the kind of updated institution we require, and these are just the sorts of experiments we need to test the presumptions of the last age now that anyone may now claim the right and privilege to converse and to create. "All mankind are on the scaffolding," said Hugo. "Every mind is a mason... . Every day a fresh course is laid."112







20
Institutional Revolutions
The gradual closing of the Gutenberg Parenthesis grants us the opportunity to ask questions and discern lessons about the past, perhaps to inform decisions about the future. You will have yours. Here, tentatively, are some of mine.
Print enabled conversation until conversation was commodified as content by media. How might we now engage in revived public discourse?
Community and identity were forsaken amid industrialized media's contrivance of the mass. Now we may speak as individuals to join with others in communities of our devising.
Since the earliest global network, the imperial Post, society has sought connection. Now the connections we may make have practically no bounds. Whom do you wish to know?
In media's economy of copyright, creativity was reduced to a scarcity. Now we witness its abundance. How might creativity be nurtured now?
Authority was invested in print, but print's institutions cannot cope with the abundant speech and information of the day. Where might we seek authority next?
Print is about power, about who may speak and who might hear. Now speaking is easier and listening is harder. There will always be bad actors who exploit freedom of expression, but control of speech has proven inevitably to be futile, as the Church in Rome finally had to learn. It is better to encourage, enable, and support good speech, that which is informed, productive, unique, useful, artful.
It will still take time to understand new technology on our terms, to exploit it to our ends. Said McLuhan: "Our 'Age of Anxiety' is, in great part, the result of trying to do today's job with yesterday's tools—with yesterday's concepts."1 We have time. It is, once more, 1480 in Gutenberg years. What if the great inventions with the net—as daring as the essay, the novel, and the newspaper—are still far ahead? But beware the irresponsibility of the future tense, of so-called long-termism; our duty to tomorrow begins today. And beware the conceit of the present tense: that we are the modern ones and those who came before, facing challenges so like ours, have no wisdom to offer. Resist, too, the pull of nostalgia, the illusion that the grass of the past was greener for all.
What do we do with these lessons? And who is "we" anyway? Well, each of us does bear responsibility for the state of the connected society. Each decision we make—what to share or not, how we interact with others, what behaviors we support or shun—establishes norms, creates demand, and defines culture. We all have agency—but never enough, not on our own. Society—those in power, those who are given and who claim seats at the table—sets its path through its institutions. Editing, publishing, media, the First Amendment, censorship, licensing, criticism, and public libraries were all institutions ultimately born of Gutenberg. So were the mass and propaganda and revolutions and the reaction to them, conservatism. That is the argument of sociologist Robert Nisbet, who said the French and Industrial Revolutions gave birth to modern conservatism—"unintended, unwanted, hated by the protagonists of each, but the child nevertheless. What the two revolutions attacked, the conservatism of such men as Burke, Bonald, Haller, and Coleridge defended. And what the two revolutions engendered—in a way of popular democracy, technology, secularism, and so on—conservatism attacked. If the central ethos of liberalism is individual emancipation, and that of radicalism the expansion of political power in the service of social and moral zeal, the ethos of conservatism is tradition, essentially medieval tradition."2
Nisbet may provide a framework for analyzing the current state of institutions—though in a curious reverse. Consider: The internet's emancipation of the individual enables under-represented communities to speak, organize, and act, enabling movements—reformations, even revolutions—in the name of racial, gender, economic, legal, and environmental equity and justice. The existing, white power structure—in the person of the far right—counterattacks, burning the fields so as not to share their harvest with those who follow. They undermine the institutions of journalism, science, education, free and fair elections, democracy itself, and civility. Thus, when conservatives attack institutions, liberals find themselves in the position of having to defend those institutions. The conservatives are now the insurrectionists, and the liberals are now conservative. The world is turned upside down and inside out. The old labels are ever more meaningless.
As for the institutions themselves: They cannot afford to idly stand on their legacies of power. The reflexive reaction to change, to the untested and unknown, is to regulate, control, stop. Sometimes, that is warranted. But our surer path is to explore new opportunities, to discern and negotiate our shared needs and norms, and to build institutions around them. Print, as I've recounted here, gave birth to, challenged, reformed, and rebuilt institutions. What institutional revolutions are required on the other side of the Gutenberg Parenthesis?

In a time of disruption, institutions face choices: to resist change (possible but unlikely), to adapt (wise but difficult), or to die and be replaced. During the transition into the Gutenberg Parenthesis, change of many causes confronted the Church, empires, principalities, feudalism, scholasticism, alchemy, and ideas of education and authority. Today, in the transition to what follows, change challenges the institution of copyright, as I just explored, as well as our ideas of the author, news, privacy, currency, work, welfare, warfare, policing, even capitalism, democracy, and the nation.
I have chosen to examine change across the fulcrum Gutenberg provides. Douglas Allen, an economist at Simon Fraser University, presented another framework in his book, The Institutional Revolution: Measurement and the Economic Emergence of the Modern World. Allen defined institutions as the rules, norms, and standards that govern behavior, and I would add the organizations that execute and enforce them. "In the West," he wrote, "the world is considered 'modern.' By that is meant a world governed by a series of secular institutions: the rule of law; well-enforced property rights; elected democratic governments; human rights; public provision of courts, health care, national defense, and education; professional services; regulated markets; concerns over social welfare and income distributions; and the concept of individual liberty within a modern state." No institution is forever. "It is because our world has been modern only since around the middle of the nineteenth century," Allen said, "that we do not have to go far back in time before institutions become foreign to our modern senses."3
With an economist's eye, Allen studied the period from about 1780 to 1850, and in it the decline of a series of very English institutions, including the aristocracy, dueling, naval and army commissions, and privately run lighthouses, roads, and police. Why did they exist? "In the Darwinian struggle between nations, firms, and individuals," Allen said, "societies are driven to find institutions that get the job done best under the circumstances faced at the time." His theory was that these now-archaic (and to our eyes somewhat illogical) institutions were necessary to assure and motivate trust and dependable service, as uncontrollable forces—weather and disease; that is, nature—as well as poor communication and transportation prevented the crown from reliably monitoring and managing its agents. The crown's agents had to be motivated by means other than direct administration, which might mean having them fear banishment, on one hand, or on the other, granting them license to take bribes or the plunder of war as reward while off at the front. These institutions existed to "distinguish between shirking and sloth, on the one hand, and chance, on the other."4 The task of institutions is to mitigate risk, assure order, and maximize benefit for those with the power to establish them.
Take the aristocracy. To ensure the loyalty and trust of the Duke of So-and-So, the crown expected him to build a lavish estate, converting his riches into what Allen called "hostage capital." So long as the king could trust the duke, all was well; the duke would enjoy privilege, power, and wealth and might burnish his family's status by sending his daughter to marry at court. But if the duke cheated the king, he might not see his daughter again and would be stuck in a cold mansion with few friends and no liquid assets. By the middle of the nineteenth century, about 7,000 aristocratic families owned four-fifths of the land in the British Isles. The tasks they carried out, such as resolving private disputes, were taken over by government agencies and bureaucrats once officials' performance could be managed; laws were then enforced by police and disputes were settled in court. The aristocracy anachronistically persisted but other institutions died.
In his examples, Allen said, the key factor leading to the evolution or abandonment of an institution was the ability to measure. For example, in the British Navy, before the development of accurate timepieces needed to pinpoint latitude and longitude, it was impossible to know exactly where a ship was or when it might arrive to battle. That is why trusted aristocrats commanded fleets. With the arrival of the marine chronometer—and when steam came to overrule the serendipity of wind—the old admiralty was replaced by a professional military. Similarly, when government could maintain roads and lighthouses with taxes and supervise them thanks to improved transportation and communication, the private entities that had operated each were abandoned.
Measurement is only more pervasive in our time. As technology advances, our opinions are measured in surveys, our shopping by marketers, our viewing in ratings, our exercise in gadgets, and now it is said everything we do in databases recording our moves online. I will hazard a guess that the backlash against data by privacy advocates will reach an all-encompassing resentment of measurement. What then? Instead of being measured, we can be heard. The internet brings more people to speak in the public square and that threatens the presumptions of media and politics—specifically of journalism and opinion polling—that we are easily metered. No longer need the opinions of the entire public be categorized in a pollster's biased and binary poll, lacking nuance. Now every member of the public may express their views for all willing to hear. How can we listen to so many disparate voices? That is not easy. It requires new mechanisms and institutions to find what is worthy of attention.
Let us return to the post-Parenthesis institution of the hashtag and the impact of #BlackLivesMatter. When I first read Allen's book a decade ago, I began a mental list of institutions likely to be challenged by the internet and its new capabilities. I did not think to include policing. But witness what occurred in 2020 after a video of the murder of George Floyd under the knee of Minneapolis police was recorded by courageous, 17-year-old Darnella Frazier and shared on Facebook. It was discussed across social media and then in legacy media, leading to protests across America and then around the world, sparking another movement around another hashtag—#DefundthePolice—and a discussion about a reallocation of resources spent on law enforcement. Bear in mind that the institution of policing is relatively new, born less than two centuries ago. England's Metropolitan Police Act was passed in 1829 and in the United States, where slave patrols were established in 1704, Massachusetts began professional policing with the hiring of a force in Boston in 1838. The police are not a forever institution.
Without the force of a movement on Facebook and Twitter, the idea of shifting police money into social services might have been mentioned in the occasional unread op-ed or unwatched Sunday morning public-affairs show but would not have set the agenda for public debate. The cacophony, to use James Carey's word—better still, the chorus—from social media brought the issue to the fore. In this moment, the institutions of policing and prisons and of media and politics face a choice: They can ignore the voices outside their walls or open the gates to converse, perhaps to include and to change. Or they can be replaced. I, for one, wish that policing were taken over by a combination of expert social services to help those in need alongside better screening, training, equity, management, and accountability for officials armed with the law. Prison as it has existed is counterproductive, offensive, and obsolete and must be rethought.
Here is another case study. In 2021, a band of angry folk in a Reddit community forced an epic short squeeze on big investors who had been betting against a single stock, GameStop. In the process, the protesting Redditors surfaced a debate about the practice of shorting, the hedge fund industry, the regulation of the trade, and the institution of Wall Street. They could raise their questions to public attention thanks to their newfound ability not just to speak but to gather and act in concert. The First Amendment does not stop with the freedom to speak but also protects the freedoms to assemble and petition in protest; the internet finally embodies these three rights together. Was their protest a challenge to capitalism, whose demise has been so often foretold? I don't know, but we do see a whittling away at some of its institutions at the same time: The salaried job is augmented, for better and worse, by systems of "gig labor" made possible in a networked economy. The office, along with the conference, the convention, and the business trip, were upended by the COVID pandemic and the efficiency of online video. The firm, as defined by Ronald Coase, is no longer necessarily the most efficient means to control transaction costs when one can independently design a product, market it online, fundraise for customers' capital via Kickstarter, have it manufactured inexpensively halfway around the world, and sell and ship it via Amazon. One can pay for the product with cryptocurrencies that sidestep government's role in minting money. And while we're at it, government's role in forming armies is challenged as wars can now be waged without the hardware of battle but through cyber tools: softwar. The nation as we know it was born inside the Gutenberg Parenthesis; will it, too, undergo a parenthetical revolution?
If the nation is challenged, so might be the institution of the local: the purported preeminence of citizens' primary connections to neighborhoods and villages. Thanks to the internet, I have much closer ties to people around the world who share my interests than I do with my sometimes testy and Trumpian neighbors. In researching this book, I created a Twitter list of book history wonks with more than 350 historians, librarians, and bibliographers. It has been my happy place, where I daily discover fascinating research and seminars and can ask questions and join in conversations with people who are expert in the field.5 I spend much more time with them than with the people next door. That, then, is a new definition of "local," centered not on a map but in a community. In allowing people to join communities of their choosing and to be seen and heard as individuals rather than as stick figures in a demographic or a mass, people have a greater ability to define themselves online. That is why I resist calling community online "virtual;" for me, the people there and my relationships with them are quite real. And I wonder, is it a coincidence that with the rise of individual voices on the net and the ability to present one's own identity, categorization according to binary genders is falling at last to fluid definition? Identity politics are decried and dismissed by those who would maintain the old, mass institutions. In doing so, they lose the opportunity to hear, understand, and serve people on their own terms.
Everything positive about the future of the net that I suggest here can, of course, be met with an equal but opposite reaction. We already see a host of negative phenomena: the revival of fascism, campaigns of bigotry organized against vulnerable populations, concerted fraud and disinformation, harassment of individuals, surveillance and censorship by government. Just as with the press during the archbishops' war in Mainz, new tools can be used for good or ill. Neither path is predetermined. All change takes time. The changes Allen tracked came fifty to eighty years after their catalysts.6 You can be sure the old institutions will continue to fight to retain power, as they always have. The one inevitability of the net is a louder struggle including more voices.

The institution of the story long predates print, of course, dating back to cave paintings, the roots of every religion, and likely language itself. Print cemented the story, fictional and factual, as the core institution of culture around the world. In my line of work the story is the holiest of holies. Journalists live to get the story. In a journalism school, we teach and value the intangible skill of knowing what the story is. We pride ourselves as storytellers. We believe it is through stories—or as we like to say when feeling uppish, "narrative"—that we meet our mission of informing the public, engaging an audience, setting the agenda, capturing life. Novelists live by the story; some academics yearn to use it to spread their knowledge with greater impact; all advertisers, PR people, politicians, and propagandists try to exploit it; children fall asleep by it.
One of my heresies, among many, is to question the primacy of the story in journalism. I worry about the seduction of the story, the risk of valuing drama, character, and tidy explanation and ending over chaotic reality. I tell my students to beware the form of the story giving them too much control over other's stories. In an infamous case in Germany in 2018, an award-winning writer for Der Spiegel, Claas Relotius, was exposed as a fabulist and fraud who confessed that he made up elements of ever-better stories because he feared failure. Much self-examination followed, with editors daring to wonder about the risks inherent in the device of the story. "Everyone who writes knows the seduction of the narrative," said Bernhard Pörksen in Die Zeit. "At last, don't we need a new objectivity, a return to a stricter form, or instead an absolute and open declaration of subjectivity?"7 In his mea culpa, Der Spiegel editor-in-chief Ulrich Fichtner began, "Just before the end of his career, splendor and misery came together in the life of Claas Relotius." Fichtner made the story of the storymaker into a story itself. He couldn't help himself. The siren call of the story is too powerful to resist. He wrote of Relotius' subjects: "They are not human beings of flesh, they live only on paper, and their creator is called Claas Relotius. Sometimes he lets them sing, sometimes cry, sometimes pray."8
What if the story, this foundational institution of the Gutenberg Parenthesis, of Eisenstein's culture of print, is too alluring and perilous? And what if the hubris of storytellers—that they can explain the world to the world—is myth? In his book How History Gets Things Wrong: The Neuroscience of Our Addiction to Stories, Alex Rosenberg, a philosopher of science at Duke University, asserted that the human addiction to the story is an extension of our over-reliance on the theory of mind, which he concluded has little foundation in science. The theory of mind holds that in our brains, humans balance beliefs and desires to decide on action. The theory arose, Rosenberg explained, from the lessons our ancestors learned on the veldt, where they would mind read—that is, use available information about their environment and others' goals and past actions to predict the behavior of the antelope that was their quarry, the lion they were racing against, and their fellow tribesmen with whom they competed or whom they trusted to collaborate and share. "Since mind readers share their target animals' environments, they have some sensory access to what the target animals see, hear, smell, taste, and so on," Rosenberg said. Humans became proficient at predicting the immediate behavior of other animals and humans, which led their literate descendants to believe they could not only predict behavior in the present and future but also explain it in the past, in history.
Rosenberg questioned historical narrative, pointing out that if we could reliably ascertain the motives of past actors, there would not be so many books with clashing theories about why the Kaiser did this or that. The theory of mind also fails to predict behavior in the future—witness how awful political pundits and pollsters are at foretelling elections. Said Rosenberg: "The progression from a (nearly) innate theory of mind to a fixation on stories—narrative—was made in only a few short steps. We went from explaining how and why we did things in the present, to explaining how and why we did things in the past, to explaining how and why others did things in the present, then the past, and finally to explaining how others did things with, to, against, and for still others." Voilá: narrative. "Neuroscientists have shown that hearing a story, especially a tension-filled one in which the protagonists' emotions are involved, is followed by the release of pleasure-producing hormones such as oxytocin, which is also released during orgasm." In fact, research has also shown that oxytocin helped test subjects better infer the mental states of other mammals.9 We do mind read; the question is how good we are at it.
The basis of Rosenberg's debunking of the theory of mind was neuroscientific research that he said failed to find a sequence in rats' brains that balances beliefs and desires to arrive at a behavior. "The theory of mind and neuroscientific theory turn out to be logically incompatible," he concluded. With the theory of mind out the window, Rosenberg defenestrated the institution of the story and much more. Newton robbed us of our belief that the universe had purpose—divine purpose—demonstrating that it was instead ruled by laws of nature and science. Likewise, Darwin robbed evolution of its grander purpose in favor of natural selection and survival of the fittest. Now, Rosenberg said, neuroscience robs us of our belief in our own purpose. "Neuroscience has shown that, despite their appearance, human behaviors aren't really driven by purposes, ends, or goals." Obviously, we do make decisions, but Rosenberg said our choices are more likely determined by patterns in memory—experience or instinct—or motivated by rewards (which I would say constitutes a goal). In the end, it's Darwin's survival of the fittest that governs us, for those who—for whatever reason—make good decisions survive and prosper more than those who make bad choices. "When success is a matter of tinkering, trying anything and seeing what works, there is no scope for insight, no need for it," Rosenberg said in another piece he sent me. He was saying that our intelligence operates like machine learning, running a constant A/B test in the mind to pick the better path, may the fittest survive, higher purpose be damned.
In his book Everyday Chaos: Technology, Complexity, and How We're Thriving in a New World of Possibility, philosopher David Weinberger examined the implications of artificial intelligence, machine learning, and other data-fed and algorithmically driven means of predicting events and behaviors. Even the simple A/B test, which informs much decision-making in technology companies, "works without needing, or generating, a hypothesis about why it works." Data and formulae can often predict human behavior more accurately than fellow humans can, relying as we do on our theory of mind, our storytelling, our belief in the certainty of rules and institutions. But here's the catch: The machines do not provide explanations. "Deep learning's algorithms work because they capture better than any human can the complexity, fluidity, and even beauty of a universe in which everything affects everything else, all at once," Weinberger wrote. "Machine learning is just one of many tools and strategies that have been increasingly bringing us face to face with the incomprehensible intricacy of our everyday world. But this benefit comes at a price: we need to give up our insistence on always understanding our world and how things happen in it."10
Machine learning can often better predict cancer or market movements or traffic accidents (which really aren't accidents at all but occurrences too complex to explain), thus saving time, money, and sometimes lives. "Our new engines of prediction are able to make more accurate predictions and to make predictions in domains that we used to think were impervious to them because this new technology can handle far more data, constrained by fewer human expectations about how that data fits together, with more complex rules, more complex interdependencies, and more sensitivity to starting points." With that benefit of more reliable prediction, we might sacrifice our belief in stories, in the theory of mind, and in our ability to uncover knowable laws, especially in relation to human behavior. "Stories are a crucial tool but an inadequate architecture for understanding our future," said Weinberger. "There's no harm in telling those stories to ourselves. There's only harm in thinking that they are the whole or highest truth."11
I see a rug being pulled out from under our understanding of the world: a crisis of cognition. If we question the theory of mind and with it the story then we question the primacy of the book, don't we? "Marshall McLuhan was right: the medium is the message," said Weinberger. "We shrank our ideas to fit on pages sewn in a sequence that was then glued between cardboard stops. Books are good at telling stories and bad at guiding us through knowledge that bursts out in every conceivable direction, as all knowledge does when we let it. But now the medium of our daily experiences—the internet—has the capacity, the connections, and the engine needed to express the richly chaotic nature of the world." Can we learn to value chaos for the freedom it implies?
T.S. Eliot asked, "Where is the wisdom we have lost in knowledge? Where is the knowledge we have lost in information?"12 Now what is the information we have lost in data? How do we learn enough about data and machines to gain greater understanding of them so we attain greater confidence and control? What institutions do we need to achieve this end: what ethics, standards, and rules about bias, equity, and transparency to build accountability and trust? Some wish to limit the creation and collection of data. I worry that when we demonize data and regulate its collection more than its exploitation, we might cut ourselves off from the knowledge that can result. The answer is not to know less. It is to be cautious, understand impact, and build standards—institutions—to govern our use of data. It is to know wisely.

Institutions are human creations. They are not the products of technologies or corporations. They result from need. They are intended to arbitrate conflict. They are the result of the negotiation of norms and standards, rules and laws, among everyone who has a place at the table. They represent consensus at one level of power or another. They take time to establish. They take time to alter or erase. What institutions do we need to support, change, or establish after the Parenthesis? That is for us, together, to decide. We could establish institutions to set limits on the use of data, to reward creativity, to protect privacy, to nurture community, to verify fact—or to punish heresy—all these choices are ours and they will not be made in an instant, only over time, the length of the transition out of the Parenthesis.
In 1998—Google's birth year—James Dewar, head of a center for long-term (that is, centuries-long) planning at the RAND Corporation, was inspired by Elizabeth Eisenstein to interrogate lessons from the past. In a paper entitled, "The Information Age and the Printing Press: Looking Backward to See Ahead," he asserted that "changes in the information age will be as dramatic as those in the Middle Ages in Europe" and "the future of the information age will be dominated by unintended consequences." For example: "The Protestant Reformation and the shift from an earth-centered to a sun-centered universe were unintended consequences in the printing press era."13
Dewar cited a RAND colleague, David Ronfeldt, who two years earlier claimed that "societal evolution has not ceased" (perhaps a reply to Francis Fukuyama's 1992 book, The End of History and the Last Man). Ronfeldt said that among society's four organizing structures since ancient times—tribal; hierarchical (church, army, state); market-based; and collaboratively networked—the last would become dominant with the internet. "Why does the information revolution, in both its technological and non-technological aspects, favor the rise of organizational networks?" Ronfeldt asked. He answered: "In the first place, this revolution makes life difficult for traditional institutions. It erodes hierarchies, diffuses power, ignores boundaries, and generally compels closed systems to open up. This hurts large, centralized, aging, bureaucratic institutions." He charted key characteristics of a networked society: It is post-industrial; it gives rise to greater influence for civil society; it sees its purpose as knowledge over capital; it idealizes cooperation over competition; it values equity and justice; and—in a prediction that certainly came true—it is vulnerable to deception. Ronfeldt offered prescient observations about the transition from a market- to a network-dominated society. "During the rise of a new form, subversion precedes addition," he said. As we have learned since the so-called Arab Spring, it is easier to use our new tools to challenge and tear down than to rebuild. "A new generation of societal conflicts is in the making, and it will expand for decades."14
Dewar, too, issued a warning: "Countries that failed to take advantage of the printing press fell behind Europe. Those that strictly suppressed the printing press were eclipsed on the world stage. Even in Europe, countries that tried to suppress 'dangerous' aspects of the printing press suffered. This strongly suggests that the advantages of the printing press outweighed the disadvantages. Further, it suggests that, in retrospect, it was more important to explore the upside of the technology than to protect against the downside." His recommendation: We should maintain "a policy of experimentation, paying particular attention to unintended consequences.... If the future is to be dominated by unintended consequences, it would be a good idea to get to those consequences as quickly as possible and to work to recognize them when they appear." In other words: embrace the chaos—or what seems to us to be chaos because we cannot explain and control it. To do that, Dewar strongly recommended that "the Internet should remain unregulated." Two decades after he wrote that paper, I emailed Dewar to ask whether anything in the net's development had surprised him. His answer was no, except for the unintended consequences for government: the Arab Spring for good and autocrats' exploitation of the internet for bad. "We were all pretty sure that the internet would unfold much along the lines that it has," he emailed. "Furthermore, I still think (as do you) that it's way too early to say what the internet has done to society. We still have no clear idea of what the technologies of the internet are going to be when it settles out, let alone what the societal impact will be."15
The unintended consequences of print are history. Pope Leo X did not intend to empower Luther when he banned his texts and excommunicated him. Luther did not wish for armed revolts. Regulators in Europe have attempted to take power away from American technology platforms but ended up granting them more: With Europe's Right to be Forgotten, Google decides what we may remember; with Germany's NetzDG hate-speech law, Facebook decides outside a court what speech is illegal and must be banned; YouTube takes down works of criticism and creativity in overcautious reading of copyright. This is not to say that the internet and technology companies should not be regulated. They need to be regulated more wisely. In 2019, I joined a Transatlantic High-Level Working Group on Content Moderation Online and Freedom of Expression convened by former Federal Communications Commissioner Susan Ness under the auspices of the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Amsterdam. The working group recommended that social-media platforms should be held accountable for their impact on users and society through transparency of data mandated by regulators and made available to researchers. Inspired by Róbert Ragnar Spanó, later the president of the European Court of Human Rights, the group also urged the creation of e-courts to adjudicate questions of legality where they should be decided: in public, in court, with due process.16 The hope is that nations will establish flexible frameworks for oversight, collaborating with technology companies, their communities, regulators, civil society, and researchers able to call upon data and evidence of impact before attempting to intervene. I say regulators should keep in mind that many of the problems they wish to regulate are no more born of technology than heresy or sedition were born of print. The goal of regulation is to direct the behavior of citizens, as legislation does, and any abridgement of freedom should be approached with caution and only when existing norms and laws are tested and fail.
More than that, I hope we turn our attention away from trying to eradicate everything bad online to finding, encouraging, and supporting the good—to paraphrase Dewar, to see upsides over downsides. In the development of print and the culture around it, the first reflex was to outlaw the bad—heresy and sin, blasphemy and incitement, which more often than not were labels legacy powers placed on the challenges they feared. It never worked, not for long and not without considerable pain. The Index of Forbidden Books was a laughingstock. An entire international industry was built up around avoiding the censorship controls of France and England.17 Licensing of books and thus speech, whether by government itself or its private agents, was brought down under the weight of higher principles of freedom. The bonfire of the vanities was just that.
Interventions in speech are often well-intentioned but ill-informed. A trope I hear often—like the filter bubble and the echo chamber—is that young people are particularly vulnerable to disinformation and "fake news" because they do not have the critical reasoning and experience to cope with it. Well-meaning organizations sprang to the rescue to bring "media literacy" and "news literacy" to schools. Problem is, researchers from Princeton and New York University found in 2019 that the most prolific sharers of the worst false social media posts were older men. The kids are alright; it's grandpa who's screwing up the world.18 Another study of engagement with "fake news" in the 2016 election of Donald Trump found that "only 1 percent of individuals accounted for 80 percent of fake news source exposures, and 0.1 percent accounted for nearly 80 percent of fake news sources shared."19 That is why it is critical to gather and study evidence before leaping to conclusions and designing interventions: the problem might not be as big as media would have us believe; the causes might not be what we presume; untested solutions might make the matter worse (as Facebook found when fact-checking flags added to posts increased their traffic). To fight to eradicate bad speech is a distraction. In the history of Gutenberg's age, what worked instead was the creation or expansion of institutions dedicated to nurturing, supporting, and sharing the best of what came of print: editing, publishing houses, criticism, and expansion of libraries and disciplines of humanities and arts in universities and schools. Let us turn our attention to that more fruitful path now.

Only a year after the introduction of the first commercial web browser in October 1994, Vanderbilt University English Professor Leah Marcus wrote a lovely essay called "Cyberspace Renaissance." After distancing herself from the freighted periodization of the term "Renaissance" and pledging to avoid technological determinism, she observed: "The discovery, or invention, of cyberspace is only one of the ways in which our own age seems uncannily to replicate Renaissance discovery." Marcus was fascinated by the "radical unfixity of language" brought on by the computer and by changes wrought on the institution of the author. "The fact that we can read and write nearly simultaneously onscreen ... seriously diminishes the reverence in which authorship has been held for several centuries." She offered empathy to the author as person and institution. "It is both amusing and comforting to recognize how closely our uneasiness with the unleashing of previously fixed text into the nebulous freefall of cyberspace approximates the anxiety experienced by Renaissance authors as they surrendered their writings into what appeared to them as the impersonality and uncontrolled dispersal of print." I was most taken with Marcus' thrill at finding herself in an age of discovery. With a necessary caveat that "the peaceable invention of print ... helped spawn violence as well as renewal," she still wished that in our time "we could transfer the romance of exploration to a new form of space without conquistadors, the extermination of indigenous populations or the violent squandering of native resources."20
With prescience and hope, Marcus concluded: "The coming age of fresh exploration and revitalization will likely give way eventually to consolidation, familiarization, and eventually a cynical backlash, as in the late Renaissance with which we are already familiar." She correctly predicted the arrival of the techlash in media's coverage of the internet—which, according to researcher Nirit Weiss-Blatt's work arrived coincident with the election of Donald Trump in 2016.21 "But," Marcus continued, "as in the case of the late Renaissance, it may in the meantime have altered teaching and scholarship so fundamentally that a return to the past is not only impossible but also inconceivable. There is no point in dwelling on the dark potentialities of the new technology when we have, in fact, no way of predicting its eventual effects. Renaissances happen by infrequently enough that they should be enjoyed in the process. I, for one, await the Cyberspace Renaissance with great interest, and hope to live to see its zenith."22
Certain institutions—democracy, free and fair voting, the First Amendment, journalism, education, the academe—must be secured against the attacks of the far right, and the way to defend them is to help update them. Some institutions—policing and prisons, in my earlier example—need to be overhauled or replaced. And some institutions are doing a good job adapting and should be supported. For example, libraries have shifted online and are providing computers, access, and help, and are working to bring printed works to the net. Librarians are defending freedom of expression. I include supporting librarianship in a larger context: helping to decide what conversation, creation, and data we should be keeping and how we should provide access to it outside of Google and private enterprise. We need standards for privacy and mechanisms for detecting bias in sets of data. We need discussion about right vs. wrong uses of data and about what to preserve—what should be left ephemeral and what should be kept, what we value in the present and future tenses. We need curators to assure data can be retrieved when today's formats are obsolete. I trust librarians to address these questions according to higher principles, for they are and long have been the selectors and protectors of our communal knowledge in print as well as defenders of our speech and our privacy. Said Ervin Gaines in the Bulletin of the American Library Association in 1964: "We must beware two kinds of censorship: the kind which, after the fact, seeks to raise a public cry over the evil book and attempts to cow more modest people into accepting the judgment of the outraged minority; and the kind which seeks to murder an idea before it can even make its presence known."23 Deciding to erase data before we know what we and machines can learn from it is erasing ideas before we might know them.
Regarding libraries, Andrew Pettegree observed that when books were printed and became commonplace—"no longer an object of wonder, but an everyday aspect of life"—then among Europe's elites "the accumulation of a library lost its allure." He traced the cultural progression of the library from the Renaissance, when it "was a noisy place—a place for conversation and display, rather than one for study and contemplation. It was only in the seventeenth century, with these new institutional collections, that the library began its long descent into silence, emerging as that new phenomenon of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, the library as mausoleum, a silent repository of countless unread books, its principal purpose the protection of books from the ravages of human contact."24 I wish for the digital Renaissance library, a place (virtual) where our lives, our conversations, our collective comings and goings are preserved and made available for research and reflection to build a better mirror for ourselves, a better basis for the decisions we make.
What institutions might we need to invent? I cannot know. Surely no one in Gutenberg's or Schöffer's shops could have foretold the conception of the novel or the news. I do not wish for the invention of more new technologies; in this now-connected world, we have plenty to work with already. I do not subscribe to the idea that some new iteration—whatever the hell "Web3" is said to mean this week—will change everything. I hope my students and their children and theirs will create new functions or enterprises that will meet needs and opportunities to, for example, aid the establishment of authority of information, foster creativity and collaboration, educate people of all ages, bridge cultural understanding, exploit our data to our ends, nurture meaningful community, and solve problems of their time. And I pray we might establish productive public discourse to negotiate our norms from a basis of informed, rational, open, mutual understanding.
In this process, we need to study the past—before and during the Gutenberg Parenthesis—not to return to it or to discard it but to learn from those who faced similar challenges. We must begin with the human values we wish to maintain and I can see no better way to do that than to emphasize education in the humanities: lessons from history (with apologies to Alex Rosenberg) and debates about the nature of society with sociologists; about the nature of community with anthropologists; about the human mind and how it arrives at decisions with psychologists; about our values with ethicists and philosophers; about culture and creativity with artists; about the Parenthesis itself from book historians, medievalists, and classicists; and about equity and inclusion from scholars of many cultures. I celebrate the founding of the new field of digital humanities and the study of web sciences, pioneered by the inventor of the web, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, as well as the research being highlighted by the Association of Internet Researchers.25
I wish for a robust academic discipline to be built around research on the net and its impact. The academy waited five centuries after print for Elizabeth Eisenstein et al., to create the field of book history, which is now a vigorous, growing, and interdisciplinary endeavor. James Carey explained why the discipline might have come so late. Writing five years after Eisenstein's monumental study, he said: "Scholarship on the book and literacy is, in one sense, another example of the principle of Minerva's Owl: We focus our energies on a phenomenon at the moment it takes flight, at the moment we are about to lose it. Scholarship becomes simultaneously an episode in nostalgia and a way of finding our bearings in a world that seems to be shifting under our feet."26
As a journalism professor, I am less interested in studying the subset of media than the superset of the internet and a connected society. Technology companies have spent too long going it alone, acting as sole proprietors of the net, just as in the early days of the press, when its technologists—printers—exercised much influence over its use. As with print, I will bet that the internet and its technologists will become less important, even boring and passé. What is far more interesting is what people do with the technology: what new arts and forms of creativity may emerge, the ways communities may connect and collaborate, the insight we may receive about our society. I hope researchers study the results. I have begun to teach a course in designing the internet to inspire students who will both use and make the net.
In the short term, our most important task and most difficult transition is to shift our attention from technology to humanity, from the chronically negative—"The internet is ruining everything"—to the positive, seeing the potential not in the net but in ourselves, in what we can create and accomplish with it, in how we can use it to improve our world, as we did eventually with Gutenberg's gift.







Afterword: And What of the Book?
In What Would Google Do?, I confess, I called for the book to be rethought and remade, digital and connected, so it could be updated and made searchable, conversational, collaborative, linkable, less expensive to produce, and cheaper to buy. The problem, I said, was that we so revered the book it had become sacrosanct, untouchable. "We need to get over books," I wrote. "Only then can we reinvent them."1
I recant.
Umberto Eco was right: "The book is like the spoon, scissors, the hammer, the wheel. Once invented, it cannot be improved."2 When exactly the modern book was invented is a matter for debate. Was it with Gutenberg? No. He mechanized the manuscript and opened the door to the creation of the published book. Was it a half-century later, at the end of the incunabular phase, with the addition of the title page, page numbers, indexes, paragraph indentations, and the characteristics of the book as we know it? I think not. That describes the form of the modern book, not yet its soul. For me, the book became the book that century and a half after the opening of Gutenberg's Parenthesis when it became a canvas for creation: of the essay and the modern novel and with them the author and soon the Enlightenment. Since then, the book has changed little, except for what might be in each, what each might look like, and how each might be produced and sold. The book is the book. It is a space between covers to be tamed. Its finitude makes demands upon author and editor, who decide what fits, what is worth saying and what they hope is worth discussing, remembering, and preserving—though it is the reader who will make those decisions, the reader who finishes making the book.
I wrote a book. Here you have it. When I wrote What Would Google Do?, I acknowledged the irony of publishing a physical book about the digital age. Why had I not eaten my own dog food and produced it as a digital work? I blamed the publisher for paying me an advance. "Sorry. Dog's gotta eat."3 That was glib and foolish. Then as now, I wrote a book because of the challenge it presents to an idea: Is it worthy? The question I ask here is: What can we learn of our entrance into the Gutenberg Parenthesis, our culture within it, and our transition from the age of print as we build what follows? I have spent the better part of a decade searching for my answer. You, dear reader, will bring your own.
The death of the book has been oft foretold. Here I turn again to Elizabeth Eisenstein. Addressing the Media Ecology Association—a den of the followers of her inspiration and irritant, Marshall McLuhan—she said that "the last two centuries have witnessed not a succession of deaths—not the death of the sermon, the book, the novel—(I've spared you discussion of the death of the author and of God)—not a succession of deaths, but, rather, a sequence of premature obituaries."4 Centuries ago, Victor Hugo worried about what the book would kill. Now the worriers wonder what will kill the book.
Thomas Edison's invention of recording set off a rash of predictions of the book's demise. Even though the first recording medium held only three minutes at a crack, many speculated about recorded books because, as McLuhan has said, the content of a new medium is always the medium before. In The Untold Story of the Talking Book, Matthew Rubery pointed out that "for the first time, the phonograph confronted readers with a choice between two different forms of mechanical reproduction for their literature."5 Text suddenly had competition. Sound gave people an alternative to silent reading; hell, they could read with their eyes closed. The same month Edison announced his invention in 1877, The New York Times declared the phonograph a next electrical leap after the telephone. "The former transmitted sound. The latter bottles it up for future use.... Whether a man has or has not a wine cellar, he will certainly, if he wishes to be regarded as a man of taste, have a well-stocked oratorical cellar." The Times predicted that "book-making and reading will fall into disuse."6
In 1883, Minnesota professor Evert Nymanover imagined "whispering machines" hidden inside hats. "It would accompany men to the office, to the factory, to the bench, to the field, to the ditch, down the mines, whispering into their ears greater thoughts and imaginations, strengthening, ennobling, and refining the mind."7 In 1894, Scribner's Magazine published a translation from the French of an odd piece by Octave Uzanne celebrating the supersession of listening over reading, which "consumes a large proportion of the cerebral phosphates," takes our eyes off the beauties of nature, and "reigned despotically over the mind of man." Train carriages, restaurant tables, and street corners will be equipped with listening devices, Uzanne predicted. "The voices of the whole world will be gathered up."8 When audiobooks did finally become feasible, they were for years mocked as a means of cheating, not really reading. A 2016 survey "found that just 10 percent of Britons believed that listening to an audiobook was the same as having read the physical version, with the majority believing it was a lesser form of culture."9
In 1992, two years before the introduction of the commercial web browser, critic Robert Coover warned in The New York Times Book Review that "in the humming digitalized precincts of avant-garde computer hackers, cyberpunks and hyperspace freaks," proponents of the hyperlink were plotting the murder of print and books, and with them the novel. Paraphrasing McLuhan's observation about the linearity of the print worldview, he said: "Much of the novel's alleged power is embedded in the line, that compulsory author-directed movement from the beginning of a sentence to its period, from the top of the page to the bottom, from the first page to the last.... But true freedom from the tyranny of the line is perceived as only really possible now at last with the advent of hypertext." To his credit, Coover, then entering his seventh decade, chose to face the perpetrator head-on by teaching a hypertext fiction workshop at Brown University.10 He concluded: "Hypertext is a truly new and unique environment. Artists who work there must be read there." It did not kill the book. It created something new.
Two years later—in the same year as the introduction of the hyperlinked browser, Netscape—Sven Birkerts issued his sigh-filled j'accuse against the e-book, data, and online in The Gutenberg Elegies. "The stable hierarchies of the printed page—one of the defining norms of that world—are being superseded by the rush of impulses through freshly minted circuits," he cried. "The formerly stable system—the axis with writer at one end, editor, publisher, and bookseller in the middle, and the reader at the other end—is slowly being bent into a pretzel." Like many a digital dystopian, Birkerts engaged in pessimistic technological determinism: "We have created the technology that not only enables us to change our basic nature, but that is making such change all but inevitable." He proclaimed that the internet would result in a "fragmented sense of time," a "reduced attention span and general impatience with sustained inquiry," a "shattered faith in institutions," a "divorce from the past," an "estrangement from geographic place and community," "language erosion," the "waning of the private self," and an "absence of any strong vision of a personal or collective future." He further fretted about "the decline of the prestige of authorship" and a "major sacrifice of authority," not to mention "cognitive and moral paralysis." And he declared that "the explosion of data—along with general societal secularization and the collapse of what the theorists call the 'master narratives' (Christian, Marxist, Freudian, humanist...)—has all but destroyed the premise of understandability."11 Like many of his fellow eulogists, what worried Birkerts most was a loss of so-called deep reading. So did the National Endowment for the Arts, which in 2004 issued a klaxon alarm with results of a survey showing a decline in "literary reading," leading to a "bleak assessment of the decline of reading's role in the culture," cause for "grave concern" about "irreplaceable forms of focused attention and contemplation" leading to "vast cultural impoverishment."12
In response, Leah Price has been a voice of calm and reason. In What We Talk About When We Talk About Books, the founder of the Initiative for the Book at Rutgers University noted that in the years after the book had been declared dead, sales of printed books rose as those of electronic books drooped. In psychoanalyzing reactions to challenges to the book, Price uncovered the nature of our relationship with the book. "When we mourn the book, we're really mourning the death of those in-between moments," she said. Worry for the book is a proxy for other fears. "We may be seeking refuge from technological and commercial upheavals, from the people and places that crowd in on us, or from our own sickness and weakness. The problem is that treating the book as a bunker may shortchange its potential to engage with the world."13
The book is often seen as an escape from humanity. That is just what its critics once feared: that young people and especially women would lose themselves in fictional worlds and their passions. "Just over a century ago," Price wrote, "one moralist warned that 'some people cannot stand very exciting or thrilling stories, just as some people are better without any wine.' "14 Said Roger Chartier: "Uncontrolled reading was held to be dangerous because it combined corporeal immobility and excitation of the imagination. It introduced the worst ills: an engorged stomach or intestines, deranged nerves, bodily exhaustion."15 Sometime later, expectations reversed and especially students were directed to engage in solitary, lengthy, and deep reading as a measure of their studiousness, seriousness, intellect, and maturity. Reading equaled virtue. "We fetishize books," Price wrote, "because we imagine that they can protect us from our distractibility, our sloth, the weakness of will that the earliest monks called acedia."16
The book has many meanings. Books are companions, so we are not alone. Books are romantic, vessels for memory and emotion evoked by their heft and their smell. A 2017 study created a Historic Book Odor Wheel, treating the emissions from old paper, leather, and the wood they rest on like wine, sampling and analyzing air from libraries to dissect books' bouquet: woody, smoky, earthy, vanilla, musty, sweet, almond, pungent. Thus the modern bookstore sells not only books but candles and cologne that smell like them.17 Books are feelings. Books are shields; before people were accused of avoiding human contact by staring at their phones (never mind that it could be conversations with other people they are staring at), people were accused of antisocial behavior for reading books in public.
Books mark privilege; in the libraries of the rich or the Zoom rooms of the COVID-isolated, they are status symbols, with video viewers rating each other's bookshelves and buying books just to improve their scores—"proclaiming the self through the shelf," Jessica Pressman called it.18 Before the idea of literary property, Chartier said, "stories belonged to everyone." Then reading took on the properties of class. "The classic exercise of reading is, very nearly by definition, an elite acquirement inseparable from certain privileged standards of education and verbal usage," said critic George Steiner in a 1970 Times Literary Supplement essay. Books provided that elite with a "corpus of agreed reference," he said—a language of the deeply literate—while "populist and mass technocracies are characterized by semi-literacy," leading to "a retreat from the word." In response, TLS letter-writer Ken Baynes said Steiner "seems unnecessarily full of anxiety," for a broadening of culture "represents the repossession of millions of people dispossessed by the economic basis of art and learning in the past."19
Books democratize culture. Books inspire. Once upon a time, people were expected to leave marginalia on pages and to copy good bits into their commonplace books, as plagiarism was not yet a crime. And books ordered the world while digital disorders it. Said Chartier: "The digital world is a world of decontextualized, juxtaposed, and indefinitely recomposable fragments freed from any need or desire for a comprehension of the relation that inscribes them within the works from which they have been extracted."20
The book destroyed the cathedral. The internet will destroy the book. Or so some have feared. Kevin Kelly, a Wired editor and unabashed digital utopian, scared the hell out of John Updike in 2006 when he promised that a universal, digitized library would "transform the nature of what we now call the book," for "unlike the libraries of old, which were restricted to the elite, this library would be truly democratic, offering every book to every person." He foresaw "real magic" when "each word in each book is cross-linked, clustered, cited, extracted, indexed, analyzed, annotated, remixed, reassembled and woven deeper into the culture than ever before. In the new world of books, every bit informs another; every page reads all the other pages.... Once text is digital, books seep out of their bindings and weave themselves together.... When books are digitized, reading becomes a community activity."21
Speaking to the Book Expo convention that year, Updike spat curmudgeonly dudgeon in response, calling Kelly's vision "a pretty grisly scenario." He did not want to perform for his lunch, only to write for it. "In imagining a huge, virtually infinite wordstream accessed by search engines and populated by teeming, promiscuous word snippets stripped of credited authorship, are we not depriving the written word of its old-fashioned function of, through such inventions as the written alphabet and printing press, communication from one person to another—of, in short, accountability and intimacy?" Updike mourned the loss of the Parenthesis: "Books traditionally have edges.... In the electronic anthill, where are the edges?"22 He ended with a call to arms: "So, booksellers, defend your lonely forts." Kelly and Updike dueled amid an effort by Google to scan millions of books, over the dead bodies of publishers and authors, who launched a long battle over the fate of copyright in court. In 2020, researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, and Northeastern University studied the effect of digitizing books and found that especially for less popular titles, having them searchable online increased demand for sales of the physical books. So then digital does not destroy the book.23
What is a book? In his book of that title, Joseph Dane wrote: " 'The Book' is simultaneously a thing, a force, an event, a history."24 As a scholar of early book history, Dane concentrated on the book-copy, the "material object that exists in time and space and carries with it its own unique history." He decried the idea of "print culture" that Elizabeth Eisenstein and Adrian Johns debated, dismissing each in contrarian turn and declaring that "what exists is not print culture at all but rather the modern scholar's invocation of print culture." We see the past in present terms: presentism. Dane complained that "Eisenstein defines the problematic term 'print culture' by opposing it to an even more problematic term 'scribal culture.' ... Scribal and print culture, if these things exist at all, coexist. They did in the late Middle Ages, they did in the early modern period, and they still do today."25
Did I just spend a book making the case for print culture? And am I now making a case for digital culture? Not so much. I do not think there ever was a uniform, shared vision of print culture, for from the start some found the book frightening and others found the idea of its demise worse. That is my point: We imbue in the book our own expectations and desires. In Birkert's case, that was to maintain a set of societal standards and norms through the book. In Price's case: "Seeing books thrust into the service of comfort and sanity and good taste, I started wanting to recover the book's power to upset and unsettle and even anger readers."26 My desire is for each of us to gain the perspective to interrogate the values, presumptions, meanings, norms, and expectations we instill in the book so we can better decide what we want to preserve and change on the other side of the Parenthesis. As Andrew Piper wrote in Book Was There, "we cannot think about our electronic future without contending with its antecedent the bookish past." That has been my quest here. "Technologies don't just happen. At least not yet," Piper added. "We are still agents in this story, and we have some choices to make."27 I agree.
The rising digital age is not a blank slate, for its creators and proprietors to date have already etched its surface with the decisions they have made about its operation, its rules, and its economy. Many of their presumptions are carried forward from their lives in print's time. Yet I will insist again that it is early days—1480 in Gutenberg years—and that we have time and opportunity to make our own decisions. I wish the book to stand as a monument to the age soon eclipsed but also as a still-vital institution in our lives so we can examine our own perspectives through it. "The book has historically symbolized privacy, leisure, individualism, knowledge, and power," wrote Jessica Pressman in Bookishness. "This means that the book has been the emblem for the very experiences that must be renegotiated in a digital era: proximity, interiority, authenticity."28
"One thing is certain: What we call culture is in fact a lengthy process of selection and filtering," said Jean-Philippe de Tonnac in an enchanting conversation he curated with Jean-Claude Carrière and Umberto Eco in their book, This is Not the End of the Book. "Now more than ever, we realize that culture is made up of what remains after everything else has been forgotten." Eco explained that culture is not about remembering everything but instead about deciding what to forget. "Culture is essentially a graveyard for books and other lost objects," said the man who died with 35,000 books in his library.29 "Scholars are currently researching how culture is a process of tacitly abandoning certain relics of the past (thus filtering), while placing others in a kind of refrigerator, for the future. Archives and libraries are cold rooms in which we store what has come before, so that the cultural space is not cluttered, without having to relinquish those memories entirely." Then here comes the net, which "gives us everything and forces us to filter it not by the workings of culture, but with our own brains. This risks creating six billion separate encyclopedias, which would prevent any common understanding whatsoever.... We expected globalisation to make everyone start thinking alike. What has actually happened is the opposite."30
Our institutions of print culture—editors, publishers, booksellers, critics, scholars, teachers, librarians—are unprepared on their own to help us filter, not flounder, in the abundance of what we still think of in the context of content but which we must reconceive as conversation: voices, data, and life witnessed and recorded. Not that there hasn't always been a problem of abundance: "Books are published at such a rapid rate that they make us exponentially more ignorant. If a person read a book a day, he would be neglecting to read four thousand others, published the same day." So calculated Gabriel Zaid.31 The problem—no, the opportunity—of abundance exists now on an entirely different plane, requiring new mechanisms to cope with it. "Culture filters things, telling us what we should retain and what we must forget," said Eco.32 What will digital culture be in contrast with print culture and scribal culture? I cannot say for we have not left print culture and we have barely begun to imagine and build digital culture, let alone understand the immensity of the task before us.
"Everything that has been said about life in an online world has already been said about books," said Piper, comparing current complaints about the internet making us "stupider, twitchier, addicted, and perhaps worst of all, bad spellers" against "four hundred years ago in Spain people read too many romances (Don Quixote), three hundred years ago in London too many people wrote crap (Grub Street), two hundred years ago in Germany reading had turned into a madness (the so-called Lesewut), and one hundred years ago there was the telephone. We have worried that one day there would be more authors than readers (in 1788), that self-publishing would save, and then kill, reading (in 1773), and that no one would have time to read books anymore (in 1855)." In the early nineteenth century, Christoph Martin Wieland asked, "If everyone writes, who will read?" More than two centuries later, contemplating blogging, The New York Times snarked: "Never has so many people written so much to be read by so few."33
I have tried to avoid explicitly pointing to parallels in history, hoping to dodge accusations from historians of suggesting that history repeats itself, for it does not. I have wanted to leave it to you, my reader, to find comparisons and lessons where you may. In the end, I will propose but one lesson: As we begin to leave Gutenberg's Parenthesis—a journey that itself might stretch out generations ahead—and venture into the unknown and unsure future to follow, we have the blessing, the gift, of the history of books and of our transition into the Parenthesis to learn from. I pray we may avoid the pitfalls of our forebears—our Thirty Years' War, campaigns of censorship, books as victims and weapons in fights not their own—and instead invent new art forms, new means of conversing and deliberating in democracies, new ways of learning, more paths to sharing. We do not yet know what the internet can be or will be. But we do know what the book is. We have it as our standard to judge against. So I say, finally, let the book be the book.







ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
So many have inspired and taught me in my exploration into and out of the Gutenberg Parenthesis. I first must express my boundless gratitude to Tom Pettitt who, with his colleagues at the University of Southern Denmark, Lars Ole Sauerberg and Marianne Børch, formulated and shared their theory of the Gutenberg Parenthesis. They inspired this book and kindly permitted me to use their phrase as the title. Tom is a scholar of contagious energy, enthusiasm, and generosity.
Elizabeth Eisenstein inspired my interest in the field of book history. I am grateful for her scholarship, for her role in founding the field of book history, and for her generosity speaking with me even before I thought of writing a book about books. I also thank my friend Clay Shirky of New York University for first recommending The Printing Press as an Agent of Change; he doesn't know what he started.
When I began reading book history, I came upon the books of Andrew Pettegree again and again and again. He is the dean of book historians, who investigates so many fascinating spokes emanating from the history of the book—in, for example, The Book in the Renaissance, Reformation and the Culture of Persuasion, Brand Luther, The Invention of News, The Bookshop of the World, and The Library: A Fragile History, the last two written in generous collaboration with his former student and now colleague at the University of St Andrews, Arthur der Weduwen. On top of that, Pettegree guides the invaluable Brill series, The Handpress World in the Library of the Written Word, which carries many of their papers. As if that were not enough, Pettegree directs the Universal Short Title Catalogue, a resource of immense value. I am grateful for Andrew's and Arthur's friendship developed on Twitter (which alone is good reason for the platform to exist; you may follow them and many more book historians in the book-history wonks list I compiled there).1
Stephan Füssel is the dean of Gutenberg scholars, holder of the Gutenberg Chair and head of the Institute for Book Science at the Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz. His many books are the definitive texts on Gutenberg and what we know of him, following in the footsteps of those who came before, including Aloys Ruppel and Albert Kapr. He is also editor of the Internationale Gutenberg-Gesellschaft's Gutenberg Jahrbuch, a tremendous resource. Füssel answered so many questions I had about Gutenberg and the early press.
In Mainz, I recommend taking time at the Gutenberg Museum, which will soon be rebuilt. Nothing can surpass standing in front of a Gutenberg Bible to appreciate its artistry and invention. (See Eric White's magnificent Editio Princeps for the fate and location of other copies.) On my last visit to Mainz, Friedrich Roeingh, editor of the city's Allgemeine Zeitung, was kind enough to play host and tour guide as we wandered Gutenberg's streets. If you happen to be in the Boston area, I also recommend a visit to the Museum of Printing, founded by the indefatigable Frank Romano, a historian of the Linotype, cold type, and everything you might want to know about printing. Thank goodness that he is preserving so many artifacts from the era of hot type and, by extension, Gutenberg.
I have been awestruck at the painstaking research so many scholars have done with the artifacts of Gutenberg, Fust, and Schöffer, including Paul Needham, the retired Princeton Scheide Librarian; his colleague, Eric White, the University Library's curator of rare books (who taught me in a wonderful online course on Gutenberg's Bibles led by the generous scholar Elizabeth Savage); Lotte Hellinga, former deputy keeper of the British Library; Richard Schwab; and many more.
There are so many more authors to recommend in the field of book and printing history writ large, including—in no order—Ann Blair, Robert Darnton, Roger Chartier, Neil Postman, Dennis Duncan, Leah Price, Rachael Scarborough King, Joseph Dane, Adrian Johns, John Man, Richard Ovenden, Otto Fuhrman, Paul Saenger, James Raven, Marshall McLuhan, Harold Innis, Walter Ong, Frédéric Barbier, Warren Chappell, Martin Lowry, James Moran, Andrew Piper, Alberto Manguel, Richard Sher, Ross King, and S.H. Steinberg, to name only a few.
The bibliography is full of engaging chroniclers in more topics, such as the coffeehouse (Brian Cowan, Aytoun Ellis, Markman Ellis), the mass (Raymond Williams, Daniel Bell, John Carey, Bernard Rosenberg, Salvador Giner, Edward Shils, William Kornhauser, Dwight Macdonald), Black and activist culture online (André Brock Jr., Charlton McIlwain, Meredith Clark—in a book set to come out as this one is published—as well as Eddie Glaude Jr., Sarah Jackson, Moya Bailey, Brooke Foucault Welles), the spread of news (Will Slauter, Paul Starr, Heidi Tworek), dictionaries (Jonathon Green), the perils of periodization (Ada Palmer, Johan Huizinga, Ritchie Robertson), new media vs. old (Gwenyth Jackaway), Montaigne (Sarah Bakewell, George Hoffman, Stefan Zweig), copyright (Peter Baldwin, William Patry), the finer points of type (D.B. Updike, Simon Garfield, Keith Houston, Alexander Lawson, Cecelia Watson), online culture (Axel Bruns, Peter Burke), freedom of expression (Arthur Cash, Harold Weber, Joseph Hone), the institutional revolution (Douglas Allen), and the fate of the book (Jean-Claude Carrière, Umberto Eco, Jean-Philippe de Tonnac). Those are just some of the authors of some of the books. I cannot begin to thank the authors of countless invaluable academic papers—and my own CUNY libraries and the New York Public Library for giving me access to them.
I owe special gratitude to Matthew Kirschenbaum, who wrote the captivating and wonderfully wonky history of word processing, Track Changes, inspiring what I hope will be a later book. I was delighted to discover that my editor at Bloomsbury, Haaris Naqvi, who has from the first been wonderfully supportive of this book, sent my (much longer and rougher) manuscript to Matthew as reviewer number one. Matthew then generously took the time to discuss improvements, which I tried to make; any failures are fully my own. My agent, Lisa Adams, alongside David Miller at the Garamond Agency, have been supportive and patient with my neuroses (and my pedantry, taking delight in informing them that the typeface Garamond after which they name their agency came from Claude Garamont, with a "t," who turns out not to be its designer of the typeface in any case). I am thankful to David Weinberger for introducing me to Garamond/t and for his wisdom, generosity, and invaluable friendship. I thank my former agent, Kate Lee, for reading this book early on and giving me, as ever, wise advice.
I also owe ongoing thanks to my friend and academic mentor, Jay Rosen of New York University, who, among many other things, led me to the work of the late James Carey. They both inform my thoughts on the public and its conversation.
Thanks to my school, its deans—Graciela Mochkofsky and before her, Sarah Bartlett, Andrew Mendelson, Stephen Shepard, and Judith Watson—and to funders who support our work there, including Leonard Tow, who endowed the Tow Chair in Journalism Innovation that I hold; my friend Craig Newmark, who endowed what is now the Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism at the City University of New York; the Knight Foundation, which alongside Tow funded the Tow-Knight Center I direct (with the invaluable aid of my colleague, Hal Straus); as well as Facebook, Google, the Ford Foundation, CUNY, and others, which have funded activities of the center. (In the interest of disclosure, I will add that I receive nothing personally from any technology company.)
In addition to Haaris Naqvi at Bloomsbury, I thank the publisher's team, including Hali Han, Zeba Talkhani, Deidre Kennedy, Mollie Broad, Christina Kowalski, and Nina Hayes-Thompson. Thanks to the production house RefineCatch, which indulged my typographical desires—Merv Honeywood, Steve Webb, Les Collins, and Simon Proctor—and the diligent work of copy editor Sandra Creaser and indexer Rutter, Alan.
And I should include the wonderful used bookstores with books-on-books sections I frequented: the Old Book Shop in Morristown, New Jersey; Boston's Brattle Book Shop; and New York City's inimitable Strand.Finally, I thank my family—my wife, Tamara, our son, Jake, our daughter, Julia, my sister, Cynthia, and our father, Darrell—for putting up with me and with my bookshelves collapsing under the weight of all the books on books I could not help but buy.







NOTES
I  The Gutenberg Parenthesis
1Twain.
1  The Parenthesis
1McLuhan and Fiore, 44-45.
2McLuhan 2003, 541.
3Weinberger 2014, 46.
4https://cms.mit.edu/thomas-pettitt-gutenberg-parenthesis/.
5Pettitt 2019, 15.
6Starkman.
7Pettitt 2007.
8For a discussion of redefining the limits of "us," see this review by Mary Rambaran-Olm: https://mrambaranolm.medium.com/sounds-about-white-333d0c0fd201.
9Carey, James, 2009, 6.
10Weel, 21-22.
11Anderson, Benedict, 36-46.
12Carrière, Eco, and de Tonnac, 303.
13Ibid., 47, 55.
14Nietzsche, 378.
2  Print's Presumptions
1Pettitt 2009, 3.
2Patterson, 101, 92.
3Falk, 9.
4Fried, 507.
5Palmer.
6Burckhardt and Goldscheider, 81.
7See Matthew Gabriele and Mary Rambaran-Olm, "The Middle Ages Have Been Misused by the Far Right. Here's Why It's So Important to Get Medieval History Right," Time, Nov. 21, 2019. Online: https://time.com/5734697/middle-ages-mistakes/.
8Huizinga, 36.
9Carey, James, 1984, 110.
10Ortega y Gasset, 32.
11Davis and Puett, 6, 1-2.
12Sauerberg 2009, 2.
13McLuhan and Fiore, 50.
14Cervantes, 145.
15Chartier 1989, 155-159.
16Cervantes, 146-147.
3  Trepidation
1King, Ross, 104.
2Lowry, 26.
3de Strata.
4Lowry, 26-27.
5Trithemius, 474-475.
6Brann 1981, 147.
7Brann 1979, 143, 154.
8Trithemius, Annales Hirsaugienses, quoted in Brann 1979, 156.
9Brann 1981, 148.
10Cervantes, 19-20.
11Ibid., 45-46.
12Cochran, 393.
13Hugo quoted in Swenson, 286.
14Hugo, "War on the Demolishers," translated and posted on the web by Max Eskin. https://maxeskin.com/blog/2015/06/30/war-on-the-demolishers/.
15Hugo, 168.
16Ibid., 176.
17Ibid., 169, 178.
18Ibid., 182.
II  Inside the Parenthesis
1Man, 13.
2Kapr, 12.
4  What Came Before
1Saenger, 120.
2Eisenstein 1980, 270.
3Saenger, 253.
4Ibid., 13, 272.
5Manguel, 42-43.
6Thu-Huong Ha, "The beginning of silent reading changed Westerners' interior life." Quartz, Nov. 19, 2017. https://qz.com/quartzy/1118580/the-beginning-of-silent-reading-was-also-the-beginning-of-an-interior-life/.
7Saenger, 243.
8Ibid., 264.
9Houston 2014, 13.
10To see video of the process: https://www.businessinsider.com/parchment-animal-hides-pergamena-workshop-2021-3.
11T.H. Tsien, quoted in Gunaratne, 465.
12Kurlansky, 29-34.
13Ibid., 81.
14McCarthy, Isabel Feder.
15Gunaratne, 465-467; Kurlansky, 105; Menzies, 231-232.
16Gunaratne, 460.
17Menzies, 231-237.
18Eisenstein, keynote address to the Media Ecology Association, 2002.
19Manguel, 45.
20Innis, 31.
21Chartier 2010, 175.
22Ibid., 174-175.
5  How to Print
1Palmer quoted in Pollak, 218.
2Gerritsen; Moxon.
3Clanchy 1982, 172.
4The words "typeface" and "font" are not interchangeable. A typeface is a particular design; a font is one size of that typeface.
5Duggan, 431.
6Needham 1985, 414-417.
7MacKellar, 59.
8Kapr, 129, 159.
9"The Type-Mold." The American Bookmaker, Sept. 1885, 77-78.
10Agüera y Arcas 2003.
11Agüera y Arcas 2001.
12Dane 2011, 29.
13Neue Zürcher Zeitung, "Die Skepsis überwigt," Feb. 7, 2001. https://www.nzz.ch/article75ZH7-1.462529.
14Stephen Pratt and Riccardo Olocco quoted in Agata, 172.
15Jensen, 207, 167-168.
16See also http://www.circuitousroot.com/artifice/letters/press/hand-casting/literature/index.html.
17Berger.
18Fuhrmann 1940, 10-11.
19Dane 2013, 139-148.
20Sauers, 115.
21MacKellar, 129-130.
22Needham 1985, 411-426.
23Füssel 2005, 19.
24Clanchy 1982, 176.
25Kapr, 136.
26Schwab 1983, 287-288, 302.
27"Concerning Printing Inks." The American Bookmaker, Vol. 1, No. 1, July 1885, 25-28.
28Kapr, 135.
29Needham 1983; McCarthy.
30Füssel 2019, 40; Kapr, 167.
31Perry.
32Fuhrmann 1940, 19.
33I do not know whether it is related, but in present-day newspapering, finishing an edition and sending it to the press is known as "putting it to bed."
34Ruppel, 144; Füssel 2005, 20.
35Kapr, 11.
36Bowles, 2.
6  Gutenberg
1Ruppel, 35.
2Painter 1965, 1967.
3Hellinga, 2018, 61.
4Ruppel, 32-33.
5Kapr, 41.
6Man, 61; Kapr, 67.
7Man, 62.
8Kapr, 67-70; Man, 66-67; Hessels, 19-22.
9Green, Jonathan, 36-37.
10Fuhrmann, 1940, 76, 77, 150, 183.
11Ibid., 56-62.
12I have combined the translations of the original Alsatian dialect by Fuhrmann 1940), 165, 158, and Kapr, 76-79.
13Kapr, 90.
14Füssel 2019, 61-63.
15Füssel 2005, 28; Kapr, 212.
16Füssel 2019 provides a most useful catalogue of Gutenberg's printed work.
17Man, 156.
18Füssel 2019, 65.
19Green 2014, 22.
20Clanchy 1982, 174.
21Füssel 2019, 25.
22Kapr, 170.
23Empell, 147.
24Hellinga, 142.
25Kapr, 181-183.
7  After the Bible
1Duggan, 418.
2Kapr, 234.
3Ibid., 246.
4Ibid., 259.
5Needham 1982, 396.
6Out of many translations of the colophon, I chose that from Alfred W. Pollard in his 1905 Essay on Colophons, offered online by the Gutenberg Project: https://www.gutenberg.org/files/56628/56628-h/56628-h.htm#illus4.
7Needham 1982.
8Schwab 1988.
9Needham, 432.
10Hellinga 2018, 162.
11Needham, 113.
12Hessels, 69-70.
13De Vinne, 326-346.
14Moxon, 4.
15McMurtrie, 180.
16Füssel 2019, 79.
17Kapr, 265.
18Schmidt, 197 [translation mine].
19Ibid., 198.
20Giesebrecht and Löwe 1860. My translation. I used firebomb for pitch wreath (Pechkranz), an incendiary device in medieval warfare.
21"Volkslied am Schlusse der Inaugurationsfeier des Monumentes für Johann Gutenberg" by Jakob Neus. https://books.google.com/books?id=t5JTAAAAcAAJ.
22Gutenberg-Fest zu Mainz im Jahr 1900, 3.
23New York Times, July 14, 1900, 21.
24Gutenberg Foundation website: https://www.gutenberg-foundation.com/news/.
25https://gutenberg.de/bauliche-neuausrichtung-gutenberg-museum.php.
8  Print Spreads
1Lehmann-Haupt 1950, 41-45.
2Christopher de Hamel quoted in Kirschenbaum, Valerie, 107.
3Kirschenbaum, Valerie, 108.
4Eisenstein 1980, 44-46.
5Lehmann-Haupt 1950, 64.
6Febvre and Martin, 169, 181.
7Suarez, 232, 368.
8Lehmann-Haupt 1950, 75.
9Barbier, 166-167.
10Steinberg, 9.
11Bösch, 21-22.
12Suarez, 426.
13Houston 2014, 70.
14Watson, 14-16.
15McMurtrie, 208.
16Magno, 39.
17Febvre 2010, 145-146.
18Lowry, 94; Eisenstein 1980, 57.
19Eisenstein 1980, 219.
20Magno, 58.
21Ibid., 66-69.
22Nuovo 1990.
23Magno, 95-96.
24Nuovo, 284.
25Nuovo quoted in Magno, 98-99.
26Magno, 124, 190, 195-199.
27Pettegree 2010, 254.
28Magno, 36.
29Steinberg, 37.
30Eisenstein 2011, 12.
31Pettegree, 231.
32Deacon, 10-38, 138.
33Painter 1976, 39.
34Deacon, 113.
35Atkin and Edwards, 28.
36A.S.G. Edwards, "William Caxton and the Introduction of Printing to England," British Library, Jan. 31, 2018: https://www.bl.uk/medieval-literature/articles/william-caxton-and-the-introduction-of-printing-to-england.
9  The Troubles
1Pettegree 2017, 981.
2Künast, 323.
3Pettegree 2016, 51-52.
4Ibid., 58-59.
5Pettegree 2015, 68.
6Ibid., 68, 73-75.
7Luther [1518] 2018.
8Tetzel [1518] 2012.
9Luther quoted in Pettegree 2005, 163-164.
10Pettegree 2007, 224.
11Pettegree 2005, 165, 46; Pettegree 2015, 322; Pettegree 2007, 244.
12Holborn, 124, 126.
13Pettegree 2010, 82.
14Cole, 328.
15Pettegree 2017, 983.
16Pettegree 2014, The Invention of News, 69-70.
17Eire, 179-183.
18Exsurge Domine: https://www.papalencyclicals.net/leo10/l10exdom.htm.
19Pettegree 2015, 105.
20Holborn, 137.
21Eire, 190-214.
22Gerritsen, 149.
23Massing, IX-X, 349-350, 713-716, 682-683.
24Video of the debate online: https://journalismfestival.com/programme/2019/unintended-consequences-of-eu-technology-regulation.
25Pettegree "Printing in the Low Countries in the Early Sixteenth Century" 2012, 11-20.
26Reinders 2013, 41.
27Pettegree and der Weduwen.
28Eisenstein 1980, 108-112.
29Darnton 1982, 79.
10  Creation with Print
1Shirky, 105.
2Erne 2013, 57.
3Erne 2015, 1.
4Plomer, 151-153.
5Ibid., 151.
6Halasz, 18.
7Erne 2013, 26-29.
8Bruster, 113.
9Erne 2015, 1, 2, 45-47.
10Bruster, 121-128.
11Erne 2015, 194-195.
12Heminge and Condell's letter: shakespeare-online.com/biography/firstfolio.html.
13Egginton, 158.
14Cervantes quoted in Egginton, 51.
15McCrory, 195.
16Cervantes quoted in Egginton, 11.
17Egginton, 29, 58.
18Ibid., 58-59.
19McCrory, 200.
20Cervantes quoted in Egginton, 98.
21Cervantes in Journey to Parnassus, quoted in Egginton, 110.
22Woolf, 18-19.
23Lydgate, 211, 214.
24Emerson 1850.
25Montaigne 1987, 433.
26Bakewell, 9.
27Emerson 1850, np.
28Zweig 2015, 52.
29Sullivan in The Atlantic, November 2008, "Why I Blog." https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/11/why-i-blog/307060/    See also "Montaigne, the Godfather of Blogging" online at https://nogoodreason.typepad.co.uk/no_good_reason/2010/02/montaigne-the-godfather-of-blogging.html and "Michel de Montaigne, the Original Blogger" at https://medium.com/@Am_it_Shah/michel-de-montaigne-the-original-blogger-606314d21df5.
30Lydgate, 217.
31Montaigne 1987, lxiii.
32Montaigne 1986, 750.
33Lydgate, 216.
34Hoffman, 73.
35Montaigne quoted in Newkirk, 299.
36Lydgate, 221.
37Montaigne quoted in Hoffman, 103.
38Wahrman, 19-20.
39Tim O'Reilly September 3, 2005, "What is Web 2.0" online at https://www.oreilly.com/pub/a/web2/archive/what-is-web-20.html.
40McLuhan 2001, 187.
11  The Birth of the Newspaper
1Raven 2015, 57, 59, 72.
2Petta, 280.
3Shepard, 23-24.
4Pettegree 2014, Invention of News, 287.
5McIlvenna, 317.
6Hill, Alexandra, 449-450.
7Hill, Alexandra, 449-451.
8McIlvenna, 321-322.
9Shepard, 48.
10Warfield.
11Eisenstein 1980, 433-440.
12Pettegree 2014, Invention of News, 168.
13Schobesberger et al., 20.
14Beyrer, 375.
15Pieper, 495, 509.
16Arblaster, 26.
17Barker, 720-721.
18A sizable archive of avvisi survives and is being studied by the https://www.euronewsproject.org/.
19Belo, 375-380.
20Ettinghausen, 262-263.
21Shaaber, 123.
22Weber, Johannes, 388-389.
23Ibid., 387, 392.
24Ibid., 393, 400.
25Pettegree 2014, Invention of News, 184-187.
26Hillgärtner, 407, 399, 415.
27Weber, Johannes, 393-394.
28Pettegree 2014, Invention of News, 192.
29Weber, Johannes, 397-398.
30Pettegree 2014, Invention of News, 201-203.
31Popkin 2015, 48.
32Pettegree 2014, Invention of News, 220-222.
33Pettegree in History Today 2014, 15.
34Pettegree 2014, Invention of News, 237-239, 245, 247.
35Ibid., 259-261.
36Ibid., 315.
37Starr, 55.
38Thomas, 19, 33.
39Lemay 2005, Vol. 1, 376-390; Lemay 2006, Vol. 2, 414-456.
40Franklin, Writings, 171-177.
41Lemay 2005, Vol. 1, 417, 427-428, 453-456.
42Ibid., 455.
43Williams, Talcott, 108-110.
44Leary, 243.
45Mencken, 380-381 (footnote 1).
46Martin, Peter, 38, 76.
47Green, Jonathon, 266.
48Haveman 2015, 25-36.
49Anderson, Benedict, 36.
50Bösch, 39.
51Faulstich, 62.
52Pettegree, Invention of News, 9.
53Postman, 21.
54Popkin 2015, 107-114.
55McLuhan 2001, 182, 229.
56Anderson, Benedict, 33.
12  Print Evolves: Until 1800
1Universal Short Title Catalogue online at https://www.ustc.ac.uk/. See also my discussion with Pettegree and his co-deputy director, Arthur der Weduwen, here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HYm_aMIfQZg.
2Eisenstein 1980, 106.
3Morison quoted in Smith 2000, 146.
4Trettien, 43.
5Smith 1997, 95-96.
6King, Ross, 168-169.
7Dane 2012, 22.
8Smith 2000, 16 (footnote).
9Pettegree 2015, 158.
10Reprinted in The Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America, Vol. 66, fourth quarter 1972, 351.
11Sawyer, 146.
12Duncan, 64.
13Steinberg, 107.
14Eisenstein 1980, 106 (footnote).
15Steinberg 1955, 107.
16Smith 1988, 58.
17On Twitter, I asked the expert, Duncan, whether "indexes" or "indices" is preferred; he chose the former and then so do I.
18Duncan, 88, 76-79.
19Blair, 53.
20Duncan,110.
21Theodor Zwinger quoted in Blair, 137.
22Blair, 141.
23Ibid., 388.
24Eisenstein 1980, 57, 93, 105-106.
13  Aesthetics of Print
1Ivins, 2-3.
2Eisenstein 1980, 261-263.
3Ivins, 38.
4Ibid., 34-36.
5Eisenstein 1980,261-266.
6Sarton, 95.
7Eisenstein 1980, 269.
8McMurtrie, 265.
9Chappell, 120-123.
10Senefelder.
11Ibid., 24.
12From "Foreign Notes" in The Modern Language Journal, Vol. 14, No. 8, May 1930, 670.
13Quoted in: penelope.uchicago.edu/~grout/encyclopaedia_romana/luftwaffe/aircraft/Ju-87/typography.html.
14McClellan.
15Tschichold 1991, 15.
16"The Party Line," Guardian, Dec. 17, 2000: https://www.theguardian.com/culture/2000/dec/18/artsfeatures2.
17Nathan Rosen, "Literal Font Nazis," Dec. 2, 2013. pbds650.blogspot.com/2013/12/literal-font-nazis.html.
18Kapr quoted in Shaw.
19Die Welt, "Als die Nazis ihre Schrift hassen lernten," January 3, 2021. https://www.welt.de/geschichte/zweiter-weltkrieg/article223623708/Schwabacher-Judenlettern-Als-die-Nazis-ihre-Schrift-hassen-lernten.html.
20Tschichold 2016, 34.
21Garfield 2011, 251-253.
22Shaw 2015, 23-29.
23Updike, D.B. 1951, Vol. 1, 73.
24Updike, D.B. 1951, Vol. 2, 206.
25Lawson, 62-73.
26Guardian, March 10, 1904, reposted March 10, 2015: https://www.theguardian.com/books/2015/mar/10/doves-press-bible-published-1904.
27Garfield, 84-88.
28"The Fight over the Doves," Economist, Dec. 19, 2013: https://www.economist.com/christmas-specials/2013/12/19/the-fight-over-the-doves.
29It may be purchased at: typespec.co.uk/doves-type/.
30Rachel Steven, "Recovering the Dove Type," Creative Review, March 2, 2015: https://www.creativereview.co.uk/recovering-the-doves-type/.
31Updike, D.B., 1951, Vol. 2, 233.
32Beatrice Warde, writing as Paul Baujon, in Fleuron, investigated the typeface and concluded Garamond was not in fact designed by Garamont but fifty years later by Jean Jannon.
33Steinberg 1955, 119, 21.
34Updike, D.B., Vol. 1, 217; Vol. 2, 163-165; Vol. 2, 101-104.
35Updike, DB, Vol. 1., 229 (footnote).
36Steinberg 1955, 123.
37Garfield, 98, 101.
38Pardoe, 29-30.
39Quoted in Updike, D.B., Vol. 2, 108.
40Benton, 25-28.
41Lawson, 187-188.
42Quoted in Updike 2015, Vol. 2, 110.
43Hansard, 312.
44Pardoe, 125-126.
45Birmingham City Council web site. https://www.birmingham.gov.uk/info/50168/creepy_collection/1616/creepy_collection_-_baskerville_shroud.
46A letter to the Birmingham Weekly Post, dated November 22, 1879, quoted in Pardoe, 151-155.
47Pardoe, 155-156.
48Garfield, 103-104.
49Gill, 16.
14  Steam and the Mechanization of Print
1Kubler 1941, 47-48.
2Hansard, 817-819.
3Kubler 1941, 41-45.
4For more on Stanhope's calculating machines, see: https://history-computer.com/MechanicalCalculators/18thCentury/Stanhope.html.
5Beatty; Zall.
6Zall, 115.
7Bidwell, 146.
8Stanhope, 8.
9MacKellar, 48.
10Stanhope quoted in Hansard.
11Stanhope quoted in Bidwell, 47.
12Kubler 1941, 145.
13Moran, 63-67.
14Moran, 54.
15Zall, 115.
16Hansard quoted in Moran, 56.
17Hansard, 656.
18Moran, 107-108.
19The Story of Paper-Making, 69.
20Kurlansky, 240-244.
21The Story of Paper-Making, 69.
22Kurlansky, 245, 247.
23Hunter, 382-383, 313-314, 376-377, 381.
24Kurlansky, 248-255.
25Hayes, 301.
26Lyell quoted in Hayes, 303.
27Holden's Dollar Monthly, April 1848, quoted in Hayes, 304.
28Fyfe, 107.
29Hayes, 319-325.
15  Electricity and the Industrialization of Media
1McLuhan, Understanding Media, 97.
2Letter to the New York Times, December 10, 1885, 3. https://timesmachine.nytimes.com/timesmachine/1865/12/10/80310511.html.
3Lewis quoted in Jepsen,72.
4New York Times, August 19, 1858, 1. https://www.nytimes.com/1858/08/19/archives/arrival-of-the-frigate-niagara-fireworks-and-illuminations.html?searchResultPosition=1.
5New York Times, August 19, 1858, 4 https://timesmachine.nytimes.com/timesmachine/1858/08/19/78859815.html?pageNumber=4.
6American Telegraph Magazine, October 1852, 17. https://www.google.com/books/edition/_/HZ4xAQAAMAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0.
7New York Times, November 3, 1901, 36. https://timesmachine.nytimes.com/timesmachine/1901/11/03/102629077.html?pageNumber=36.
8Huss.
9Michelson, 9-12.
10New York Times, "James O. Clephane Dead." Dec. 1, 1910, 11. https://www.nytimes.com/1910/12/01/archives/james-o-clephane-dead-development-of-linotype-machine-largely-due.html.
11Romano.
12Jackaway, 154.
13Ibid., 28.
14Ibid., 134, 59-61, 64-65, 128, 124.
15Olmsted, 12-13.
16Ibid., 147.
17McLuhan 1966, 202.
18Kirschenbaum, Matthew, 36.
19Gill, 67.
16  The Meaning of It All
1Eisenstein 1980, x-xi, xvii; my interview with Eisenstein, 2011.
2Eisenstein 1968, 2.
3All quotations and summary from Eisenstein 1968.
4McLuhan 1981, 98.
5McLuhan, Understanding Media, 8.
6Zolli and Brown.
7Huizinga, 11.
8McLuhan, Understanding Media, 8-9.
9Ong, 32, 41.
10Ibid., 78, 46, 130-133.
11Ibid., 135-137.
12Ong, 80-83.
13McLuhan 1962, 4.
14McLuhan, Understanding Media, 47.
15Ibid., 51.
16McLuhan 1962, 158.
17McLuhan, Understanding Media, 89.
18McLuhan 1962, 158.
19McLuhan 1968, 448.
20McLuhan 1960, 571.
21McLuhan Understanding Media, 188.
22Ibid., 173.
23Ibid., 199.
24McLuhan 1962, 236.
25Ibid., 141.
26McLuhan 2003, 22-23.
27McLuhan and Fiore, 26.
28Andrew McLuhan: "Marshall McLuhan Predicted the Internet in 1962. [Actually, no, he didn't]." https://medium.com/@andrewmcluhan/marshall-mcluhan-predicted-the-internet-in-1962-actually-no-he-didnt-9c1f9c936fc5.
29Morrison, 18.
30Ibid., 1.
31McLuhan 1962, 1.
32McLuhan 2003, 108-109.
33Ibid., 386-387.
34McLuhan and Fiore, 68-69.
35Dewey, 110.
36Clanchy 2007, 195.
37Dane 2003, 10, 13.
38Johns 1998, 2, 10 (his emphasis).
39Eisenstein 1980, 562.
40Johns 2002, 106, 110, 111.
41Baron, 5-6.
42Johns 2002, 107.
43Grafton, 86.
44Janssen, 383.
45Darnton 1982, 65, 79, 80.
46Janssen, 386.
47Ibid., 386.
48White.
49Darnton quoted in Janssen,384.
50Darnton 1979, 2.
51Needham quoted in Janssen, 387.
52Janssen, 383.
17  Conversation vs. Content
1Postman 2005, 6.
2Bor; interview with Petersen on WNYC On the Media, Oct. 15, 2021. https://www.wnycstudios.org/podcasts/otm/segments/does-social-media-turn-nice-people-trolls-on-the-media.
3See Jay Rosen's blog post from 2006, "The People Formerly Known as the Audience." http://archive.pressthink.org/2006/06/27/ppl_frmr.html.
4Heitsch 2004, xv.
5Chordas, 28.
6Vallée, 44.
7Erasmus, 1.
8Yoran, 24.
9One edition of Utopia that does carry the letters in an appendix is the Oxford World Classics edition, Three Early Modern Utopias, edited by Susan Bruce and reissued in 2008.
10Allen, Peter, 100.
11Vallée, 54.
12Puterbaugh, 137-138, xvii.
13Yoran 2005, 3-4.
14William Fulwood, 1568; from Lexicons of Early Modern English, online at: https://leme.library.utoronto.ca/lexicons/821/details.
15Dierks, 542, 545.
16King, Rachael Scarborough, 2.
17Ibid., 104.
18Ibid., 107-108.
19Samuel Johnson quoted in Richardson, Samuel.
20Richardson, Samuel.
21Montaigne 1987, 1045.
22Rigolot, 13-14.
23Chordas, 35.
24Emerson.
25Montaigne quoted in Lydgate, 210.
26An archive of files can be found at makingpublics.mcgill.ca. See also a series of CBC broadcasts about the project by David Cayley: www.davidcayley.com/podcasts/category/Origins+of+Modern+Public.
27Yachnin, 4, 1.
28Anderson, Benedict.
29Helgerson, 1.
30Arendt 1998, 52.
31Calhoun, 162.
32Warner 2002, 56.
33Fraser, 116.
34Ellis, Markman, 59.
35Cowan 2005, 89.
36Ellis, Aytoun, 58-59.
37Macaulay via https://www.gutenberg.org.
38Ellis, Aytoun, 106.
39Macaulay via https://www.gutenberg.org.
40Ellis, Aytoun, 67.
41Cowan 2005, 99.
42Ibid., 255.
43Ibid., 92-93.
44Klein, 35.
45Habermas 1991, 36-37.
46Cowan 2005, 254.
47Ellis, Aytoun, 88.
48Fraser, 116-117.
49Habermas 1991,43.
50Cowan 2005, 237.
51Ellis, Aytoun, frontispiece.
52Cowan 2005, 227-228.
53Mark Pendergrast from Uncommon Grounds: The History of Coffee and How it Transformed Our World 1999, 13, quoted by Gaudio, 670.
54Habermas 2022, 158-159.
55Klein, 51.
56Twitter thread by Regina Rini, @rinireg, at https://twitter.com/rinireg/status/1280972857271627784.
57Klein, 32.
58Cowan 2005, 171.
59Macaulay via https://www.gutenberg.org.
60Cowan 2005, 147-148.
61Ellis, Aytoun, 86.
62Klein, 45.
63Cowan 2005, 194-196.
64https://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/eebo/B02127.0001.001?rgn=main;view=fulltext.
65Ellis, Aytoun, 91.
66Charles II, King of England, "A proclamation for the suppression of coffee-houses" 1675 Gale Document Number U0100306598.
67Ellis, Aytoun, 93-94; Cowan 2005, 198.
68Ellis, Aytoun, 94-95.
69Cowan 2005, 202-203.
70Ellis, Aytoun, 115.
71Klein, 31.
72Cowan 2005, 165, 212; Ellis, Aytoun, 117-118.
73Robinson, 208.
74Ibid., 211.
75Carey, James, 1997, 219.
76Lippmann, 10-11, 19, 229, 48.
77Dewey, 218.
78Ibid., 219.
79Carey, James, 2009, 11-15.
80Ibid., 15.
81Ibid., 15-17.
82Rosen 1997, 191.
83Carey, James, 1997, 217.
84Rosen 1999, 75.
85See Slashdot's karma explanation here: slashdot.org/faq/karma.shtml.
86Hafner; Turner; Markoff.
87Yishan Wong on Twitter: https:/twitter.com/yishan/status/1514940129571311620.
88Mike Masnick, Techdirt: https://www.techdirt.com/2019/11/20/masnicks-impossibility-theorem-content-moderation-scale-is-impossible-to-do-well/.
89Vaidhyanathan, 3.
90https://twitter.com/jack/status/1510314535671922689.
91https://blueskyweb.xyz/blog/3-6-2022-a-self-authenticating-social-protocol.
92Wikipedia: Purpose, as of April 2022: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Purpose#:~:text=Wikipedia's %20purpose %20is %20to,on %20all %20branches %20of %20knowledge.
93Williams, Daniel.
94boyd, "You think you want media literacy, do you?"
95Bruns, 117.
96Napoli, 59.
97Bogost.
98Brandeis in Whitney v. California, May 16, 1927, available online at https://www.law.cornell.edu/supremecourt/text/274/357.
99Napoli, 67, 99-103.
100Wu, 23, 28-29.
101Lidsky, 799-800, 804.
102Brandeis in Whitney v. California, May 16, 1927, available online at https://www.law.cornell.edu/supremecourt/text/274/357.
103Lidsky, 805, 838.
104Ibid., 850.
105Lasch, 1.
106Habermas 2006, 413.
107Anderson, Rob, 15.
18  Death to the Mass
1Williams, Raymond, 299-300.
2Dewey, 10.
3Towles, 142-143.
4Carey, John, 1.
5Macdonald 1963, 11.
6Carey, John, 21.
7D.H. Lawrence quoted in Carey, John, 77.
8Roberts, 424.
9Shils, 86.
10Ibid., 69.
11Bell, 21.
12Kornhauser, 21.
13Dewey, 89.
14Surowiecki provides another litany of historical insults to the mass in his introduction to The Wisdom of Crowds.
15Le Bon, 5-6, 14, 18, 63, 67.
16Carey, John, 5.
17Ortega 13-14, 17-18, 19.
18Walter 397-399.
19Giner, 249.
20Arendt 1994, 475.
21Ibid., 316, 332.
22Arendt 1994, 476.
23Hill, Samantha Rose.
24Rosenberg, Bernard, 9.
25Fiedler, 539-540.
26Adorno and Horkheimer, 94-136.
27Postman 2005, 8, 29, 66, 69, 105, 139.
28Huizinga, 52-53.
29Shils, 70, 87.
30Rosenberg, Bernard, 1971, 6.
31Howe, 497-498.
32Yankelovich 2006, 124.
33Yankelovich 1964.
34Yankelovich 2006, 125-127.
35Gallup and Rae quoted in Korzi, 56.
36Korzi, 56.
37Allport 1937, 8-9.
38Lippmann 1997, 155.
39Carey, James, 1997, 218-219.
40Junger, xvii.
41Kornhauser, 39-44, 110.
42Rosen 1999, 63.
43Driver, 142-152.
44McDowell, 125-137.
45Driver, 144.
46Ozment, 158.
47Howsam, 1-2.
48Brooks, 40. For early bibliographical work on Black American writing, see Porter.
49See the July 23, 2002, interview with Gates by Gwen Ifill on PBS News House, online at https://www.pbs.org/newshour/show/conversation-the-bondwomans-narrative.
50Grimes 1825, available online at https://docsouth.unc.edu/neh/grimes25/grimes25.html.
51Ashton, 127-128, 137.
52Pennsylvania Packet, July 8, 1776.
53Pennsylvania Packet, July 22, 1776.
54Pennsylvania Packet, Aug. 5, 1776.
55Taylor.
56Spellman, 38.
57Martin, Waldo, 35-36.
58Douglass' papers, online at the Library of Congress at https://www.loc.gov/resource/mfd.21010/.
59The North Star, Dec. 3, 1847, 1; available online at https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84026365/1847-12-03/ed-1/.
60"Credo For The Negro Press" in the Norfolk New Journal and Guide, July 8, 1944, downloaded from the Proquest Historical Newspapers database.
61Rosen, 2003, online at archive.pressthink.org/2003/09/18/jennings.html.
62Lowery, online at https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/23/opinion/objectivity-black-journalists-coronavirus.html.
63Beyond the Hashtags at https://cmsimpact.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/beyond_the_hashtags_2016.pdf.
64Jackson, 123.
65Freelon, McIlwain, Clark, 7.
66https://twitter.com/DocDre/status/1331502578023211008 and https://twitter.com/jeffjarvis/status/1318628542322774018.
67Brock 2020, 6-7.
68McIlwain, 6, 96-97.
69Ibid., 167.
70Brock 2020, 31, 10-11, 81, 24, 124, 22.
71Du Bois, 5.
72Dewey, 150.
73Glaude, 25-26.
74Wessler, 18.
75Fraser, 122-123.
76Brock 2020, 86, 88.
77Bernard, 8.
78Jarvis 2011, 15-23.
79Two of my posts on Facebook's Oversight Board: https://medium.com/whither-news/facebook-principles-before-statutes-b088fba7f643; https://medium.com/whither-news/here-comes-the-judge-71aa4deec670.
80Williams, Raymond, 334-335.
19  Creativity and Control
1Sixtus V bull prefacing 1590 Index of Forbidden Books, quoted in Shuger, 58.
2Milton.
3Davison.
4Rojas, 168, summarizing R. Hence and C. Wright 1992, "The development of the attitudes toward censorship questionnaire." Journal of Applied Social Psychology, volume 35, pp. 1666-1675.
5Perloff, 359, summarizing several papers.
6Corbu, 169, summarizing multiple studies.
7McLeod, 678-693.
8Perloff, 364; Zhao and Cai, 455.
9Alicke et al.
10Jang and Kim, 296-297, summarizing multiple papers.
11Owen quoted in "Bentham and Owen on Entrepreneurship and Social Reform," European Journal of the History of Economic Thought, April 2014.
12Alicke et al., 804.
13McLeod, 679.
14Greenwald.
15Ross.
16McLeod, 691-692.
17Once the label "fake news" was co-opted by Fox News and Donald Trump as means to attack journalism, Claire Wardle, founder of First Draft, urged journalists to stop using the term. I use it here in relation to the research being quoted.
18Jang and Kim, 299.
19Guo and Johnson, 1-9.
20Salwen and Dupagne, 526, quoting T.N. Tompson and P.J. Lavrakas, 1988, "I'm OK, but everyone else is going to the dogs: A comparison of public perceptions of societal morals and self-reported morals." Paper presented at the annual meeting of the American Association for Public Opinion Research.
21Monfasani, 2-12; Richardson, Brian, 148-149.
22Minnich, 69-70; Monfasani, 1-2.
23Minnich, 67-87.
24Ibid., 87-92.
25O'Callaghan, 95-96.
26Ibid., 136-191.
27Shuger, 57-59.
28Lenard, 54-62; see also Marcus, Hannah.
29Diderot, 55-56.
30Henry VII quoted in Weber, Harold, 135.
31Weber, Harold, 135-139, 149-150; Atkyns, 7.
32Bragg, 80, 87, 34-35, 12, 20, 32, 59-60, 66-76.
33Raven, 62-63.
34Johns 1998, 59, 201.
35Parliamentary debate on legal but harmful content: https://publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm5802/cmselect/cmcumeds/1039/report.html.
36Raven, 64-69.
37Milton 1644; all quotations from the Project Gutenberg version of Areopagitica, online here: https://gutenberg.org/ebooks/608. For clarity, I have chosen this modern-English version to quote at length.
38Fish, 103-104; and Fish quoted in Collins, online at https://exegesisandtheology.com/2017/07/12/reading-miltons-areopagitica-essays-on-religious-liberty-freedom-of-the-press-virtue-and-vice/.
39L'Estrange 1633, available online at https://ota.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/repository/xmlui/handle/20.500.12024/A47832.
40Weber, Harold, 134.
41Slauter, 43.
42Pettegree 2014, Invention of News, 241-245.
43Skjönsberg, 173-174.
44Hone, 42-43.
45Online Harms White Paper available online: https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/online-harms-white-paper/online-harms-white-paper.
46Cash, 1, 356, 67-69.
47Wilkes, 11.
48Bird, 157.
49Cash, 96-120.
50Ibid., 113, 349.
51Strahan quoted in Cochrane, 182.
52Bird, 158.
53Cash, 287.
54Ibid., 348-349, 3.
55Ibid., 391.
56Rembar, 203.
57The Report of The Commission on Obscenity and Pornography, 24, 27.
58Richard Nixon, "Text of Nixon's Statement Rejecting the Report of Obscenity Panel," The New York Times, Oct. 25, 1970, 71, available online at https://www.nytimes.com/1970/10/25/archives/text-of-nixons-statement-rejecting-the-report-of-obscenity-panel.html.
59Keating, 109.
60Crossman.
61McCarthy, Eugene, 113, 119.
62Lelyveld, 166.
63Lerner, 182.
64Rembar, 225-226.
65Brenner.
66Darnton 2014.
67From the blog The Fate of Books, November 25, 2020, "The Books Buried Under the Berlin Wall," online at https://thefateofbooks.wordpress.com/2020/11/25/the-books-buried-under-the-berlin-wall/.
68The New York Times January 10, 1993, "A Nation of Readers Dumps ITs Writers" by Katie Hafner, section 6. 23, available online at https://www.nytimes.com/1993/01/10/magazine/a-nation-of-readers-dumps-its-writers.html.
69Raven 2007, 124.
70Towsey, 99.
71Sher, 220, 236, 36, 88, 44, 345; Raven 2007, 96.
72Dittmar, 73-82; see also Wilson-Lee.
73Sangster, 53.
74Raven 2007, 289-293, 272-274.
75Haugland, 235-236, 239-240, 246.
76Der Weduwen and Pettegree, 9, 21, 31.
77Habermas 1991, 58.
78Ronan Deazley cited in Rose, 82.
79Deazley.
80Baldwin, 53, 55.
81Diderot, 53.
82Baldwin, 56.
83Ibid., 11.
84Slauter, 84.
85Rose, 84.
86Martin, Peter, 68.
87Baldwin, 73.
88Slauter, 61, 50, 125, 118-119.
89Ibid., 88.
90The Charlotte News, Nov. 27, 1902, 4, "The Strange Adventure of The Count Robhgien Ruomorf Laetsew: Nihillist," downloaded from https://www.newspapers.com.
91Tworek.
92Slauter, 193, 246-250.
93International News Service v. Associated Press, decided December 23, 1918.
94Thomas Jefferson to Isaac McPherson, August 13, 1813, available online at founders.archives.gov/documents/Jefferson/03-06-02-0322.
95Quoted in Patry, 83.
96Defoe quoted in Patry, 70.
97Foucault, 382.
98Rose, 84-85.
99Barthes; Foucault, 382.
100Will Page in the Financial Times February 19, 2021, "The music industry has more money but more mouths to feed," available online at https://www.ft.com/content/77768846-a751-45ec-9a12-20fff27ddefb.
101Patry, 118. Note that for this book that you are reading and perhaps purchased, I as author receive ten percent of the publisher's net receipts for the first 5,000 copies, twelve and a half percent thereafter. Thank you.
102Lindsey and Takash, 17-18.
103Macaulay quoted in Patry, xvi-xvii.
104Patry, 109, 103.
105See: "The Ownership Economy" online: https://variant.fund/writing/the-ownership-economy-2022.
106The project's report is available online at https://intgovforum.org/cms/wks2014/uploads/proposal_background_paper/WEF_RethinkingIntellectualProperty_DigitalAge_Report_2014.pdf.
107My interview with Coehlo in The Guardian, August 4, 2008, available online at https://www.theguardian.com/media/organgrinder/2008/aug/04/novelistpaulcoelhofindsthe.
108Coehlo in The New Statesman, August 7, 2008, "Up Close and Personal," available online at https://www.newstatesman.com/society/2008/08/readers-film-internet-despite.
109I speculated on the idea in a blog posts in 2012, available online at https://medium.com/i-m-h-o/copyright-or-creators-rights-5aa6afd729da as well as https://buzzmachine.com/2012/08/17/copyright-v-creditright/. I then wrote about it in my book, Geeks Bearing Gifts, also available online at https://medium.com/geeks-bearing-gifts/the-link-economy-and-creditright-95f938b503be.
110The Playbill with links to various of the creative contributions is online at https://playbill.com/article/presenting-the-official-fake-ratatouille-playbill.
111The Broadway Blog, thebroadwayblog.com/ratatouille-the-tiktok-musical-raises-2-million/.
112Hugo, 182.
20  Institutional Revolutions
1McLuhan and Fiore, 8-9.
2Nisbet, 11.
3Allen, Douglas, 4-5.
4Ibid., xii, 23.
5My book history wonks Twitter list can be found here: https://twitter.com/i/lists/1277345666356981762?s=20.
6Ibid., 221.
7Bernhard Pörksen in Die Zeit, December 22, 2018, "Die Schönheit eine Lüge." My translation, with links, available online here: https://buzzmachine.com/2018/12/27/the-spiegel-scandal-and-the-seduction-of-storytelling/.
8Ulrich Fichtner in Der Spiegel, December 19, 2018, "Spiegel legt Betrugsfall im eigenen Haus offen." My translation.
9Domes et al.
10Weinberger 2019, 2.
11Ibid., 36, 181.
12T.S. Eliot, Choruses from "The Rock."
13Dewar, 2-3.
14Ronfeldt, 11, 13.
15Dewar, 29, and in email to me, January 4, 2019.
16The report of the working group is available online at https://www.ivir.nl/publicaties/download/Freedom_and_Accountability_TWG_Final_Report.pdf.
17Darnton 2021.
18Guess et al.
19Grinberg et al.
20Marcus, Leah, 390, 397-398.
21Weiss-Blatt.
22Marcus, Leah, 389, 401.
23Gaines, 18.
24Pettegree 2015, 75.
25See the Web Science Trust at https://webscience.org/ and the Association of Internet Researchers at https://aoir.org/.
26Carey 1984, 105.
Afterword: And What of the Book?
1Jarvis 2009, 136-144.
2Carrière, 4.
3Jarvis 2009, 136.
4Eisenstein 2002.
5Rubery, 217.
6The New York Times November 7, 1877, "The Phonograph," 4, online at https://timesmachine.nytimes.com/timesmachine/1877/11/07/80668334.html?pageNumber=4.
7Nymanover quoted in Rubery, 228-230.
8Uzanne, 221-231 available online—with delightful illustrations by A. Robida—at https://archive.org/details/TheEndOfBooks.
9YouGov survey quoted in The Telegraph August 19, 2019, available online at https://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/2019/08/19/end-audiobook-snobbery-scientists-find-hearing-listening-activates/.
10Coover in The New York Times June 21, 1992, "The End of Books," available online at https://archive.nytimes.com/www.nytimes.com/books/98/09/27/specials/coover-end.html.
11Birkerts, 3, 5, 13-27, 158, 188, 129-130, 73, 244.
12National Endowment for the Arts 2014, available online at https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/ReadingAtRisk.pdf.
13Price, 8, 10.
14Ibid., 72.
15Chartier 2014, 67.
16Price, 72.
17Bembibre and Strlič.
18Pressman, 33.
19Steiner, 1121; and Ken Baynes in TLS no. 3580, October 9, 1970, 1164.
20Chartier 13, 70.
21Kelly.
22Updike, John.
23Nagaraj.
24Dane 2012, 7.
25Dane 2003, 10, 19.
26Price, 10.
27Piper, ix, xiii.
28Pressman, 2.
29See video of Eco walking through his library here: https://www.franceculture.fr/litterature/litalie-recupere-les-35-000-ouvrages-dumberto-eco-lhomme-bibliotheque.
30Eco in Carrière, 47, 63, 82-83.
31Zaid, 22.
32Carrière, 82.
33Piper, xi, 160 (note 4).
Acknowledgements
1My book-history wonks Twitter list: https://twitter.com/i/lists/1277345666356981762.







BIBLIOGRAPHY
Adorno, Theodor W. "On Popular Music." On Popular Music: III: Theory About the Listener, Soundscapes.info, Jan. 2020, www.icce.rug.nl/~soundscapes/DATABASES/SWA/On_popular_music_1.shtml.
Adorno, Theodor W., and Max Horkheimer. Dialectic of Enlightenment: Philosophical Fragments. Translated by E.F.N. Jephcott, Stanford University Press, 2002.
Agata, Mari and Agata, Teru. "Statistical Analysis of the Gutenberg 42-line Bible Types" Special Focus on Letters with a Suspension Stroke." Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America, 2021, pp. 167-183.
Agüera y Arcas, Blaise, and Adrienne Fairhall. "Archeology of Type." Nature, vol. 411, 28 June 2001, p. 997., doi:10.1038/35082698.
Agüera y Arcas, Blaise. "Temporary Matrices and Elemental Punches in Gutenberg's DK Type." Incunabula and Their Readers: Printing, Selling and Using Books in the Fifteenth Century, edited by Kristian Jensen, British Library, 2003, pp. 1-12.
Alicke, Mark D., M.L. Klotez, David L. Breitenbecher, Tricia J. Yurak, Debbie S. Vredenburg. "Personal Contact, Individuation, and the Better-Than-Average Effect." Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, vol. 68, no. 5, 1995, pp. 804-825.
Allen, Douglas W. The Institutional Revolution: Measurement and the Economic Emergence of the Modern World. University of Chicago Press, 2012.
Allen, Peter R. "Utopia and European Humanism: the Function of the Prefatory Letters and Verses." Studies in the Renaissance, vol. 10, 1963, pp. 91-107., doi:10.2307/2857050.
Allport, Floyd H. "Toward a Science of Public Opinion." Public Opinion Quarterly, vol. 1, no. 1, 1937, pp. 7-23., doi:10.1086/265034.
Anderson, Benedict. Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism. Verso, 2006.
Anderson, Rob, Robert Dardenne, George M. Killenberg. The Conversation of Journalism: Communication, Community, and News. Praeger, 1994.
Arblaster, Paul. "Posts, Newsletters, Newspapers: England in a European System of Communications." Media History, vol. 11, no. 1/2, 2005, pp. 21-36.
Arendt, Hannah, and Margaret Canovan. The Human Condition. The University of Chicago Press, 1998.
Arendt, Hannah. The Origins of Totalitarianism. Harcourt, 1994.
Ashton, Susanna. "Slavery, Imprinted: The Life and Narrative of William Grimes." Early African American Print Culture, edited by Lara Langer. Cohen and Jordan Alexander. Stein, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2012, pp. 127-139.
Atkin, Tamara, and A.S.G. Edwards, "Printers, Publishers and Promoters to 1558." A Companion to the Early Printed Book in Britain, 1476-1558, edited by Vincent Gillespie and Susan Powell. Boydell & Brewer, 2014, pp. 27-44.
Atkyns, Richard. "The Original and Growth of Printing Collected out of History, and the Records of This Kingdome: Wherein Is Also Demonstrated, That Printing Appertaineth to the Prerogative Royal, and Is a Flower of the Crown of England." Early English Books Online, University of Michigan, 1664, https://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/eebo/A26139.0001.001?rgn=main%3Bview.
Attali, Jacques. Noise: The Political Economy of Music. Translated by Brian Massumi, University of Minnesota Press, 1985.
Bakewell, Sarah. How to Live, or, A Life of Montaigne in One Question and Twenty Attempts at an Answer: Or, a Life of Montaigne in One Question and Twenty Attempts at an Answer. Other Press, 2010.
Baldwin, Peter. The Copyright Wars: Three Centuries of Trans-Atlantic Battle. Princeton University Press, 2016.
Barbier, Frédéric. Gutenberg's Europe: the Book and the Invention of Western Modernity. Translated by Jean Birrell, Polity, 2017.
Bardes, Barbara A., and Robert W. Oldendick. Public Opinion: Measuring the American Mind. Rowman & Littlefield, 2012.
Barker, Sheila. " 'Secret and Uncertain': A History of Avvisi at the Court of the Medici Grand Dukes." News Networks in Early Modern Europe, edited by Joad Raymond and Noah Moxham, Brill, 2016, pp. 716-738.
Baron, Sabrina Alcorn, Eric N. Lindquist, Eleanor F. Shevlin, editors. Agent of Change: Print Culture Studies after Elizabeth L. Eisenstein. University of Massachusetts Press, 2007.
Barthes, Roland. Image, Music, Text, translated by Stephen Heath. Hill and Wang, 1977.
Beatty, F. M. "The Scientific Work of the Third Earl Stanhope." Notes and Records of the Royal Society of London, vol. 11, no. 2, Mar. 1955, pp. 202-221., doi:10.1098/rsnr.1955.0008.
Bell, Daniel. The End of Ideology: On the Exhaustion of Political Ideas in the Fifties. Harvard University Press, 2000.
Belo, André. "News Exchange and Social Distinction." News Networks in Early Modern Europe, edited by Joad Raymond and Noah Moxham, Brill, 2016, pp. 375-393.
Bembibre, Cecilia, and Matija Strlič. "Smell of Heritage: A Framework for the Identification, Analysis and Archival of Historic Odours." Heritage Science, vol. 5, no. 1, 2017, pp. 1-11., doi:10.1186/s40494-016-0114-1.
Benton, Josiah Henry. John Baskerville: Type-Founder and Printer 1706-1775. Privately Printed, 1914. Facsimile reprint by Forgotten Books, 2019.
Berger, Daniel. "Post-Medieval Printing Type from Mainz and Oberursel, Germany, and the Composition of Early German Type Metal." Historical Metallurgy, vol. 49, no. 2, 2015, pp. 110-125.
Bernard, Andreas and Valentine A. Pakis, translator. Theory of the Hashtag. Polity, 2019.
Bernays, Edward. Propaganda. IG Publishing, 2005.
Beyrer, Klaus. "The Mail-Coach Revolution: Landmarks in Travel in Germany Between the Seventeenth and Nineteenth Centuries." German History, vol. 24, no. 3, 2006, pp. 375-386., doi:10.1191/0266355406gh379oa.
Bidwell, John. "Joshua Gilpin and Lord Stanhope's Improvements in Printing." The Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America, vol. 76, no. 2, 1982, pp. 143-158., doi:10.1086/pbsa.76.2.24302712.
Bird, Wendell. The Revolution in Freedoms of Press and Speech: From Blackstone to the First Amendment and Fox's Libel Act. Oxford University Press, 2020.
Birkerts, Sven. The Gutenberg Elegies: The Fate of Reading in an Electronic Age. Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2006.
Blair, Ann. Too Much to Know: Managing Scholarly Information before the Modern Age. Yale University Press, 2010.
Blight, David W. Frederick Douglass: Prophet of Freedom. Simon & Schuster, 2020.
Bogost, Ian. "People Aren't Meant to Talk This Much." The Atlantic, October 22, 2021.
Bor, A., and Michael Bang Petersen. "The Psychology of Online Political Hostility: A Comprehensive, Cross-National Test of the Mismatch Hypothesis." American Political Science Review, 116(1), 1-18. doi:10.1017/S0003055421000885.
Borch, Christian. The Politics of Crowds: An Alternative History of Sociology. Cambridge University Press, 2012.
Bösch, Frank. Mass Media and Historical Change: Germany in International Perspective, 1400 to Present. Berghahn Books, 2017.
Bowles, J.M. "Thoughts on Printing: Practical and Impractical." Modern Art, vol. 2, no. 3, 1894, doi:10.2307/25609851.
boyd, danah. "Media Manipulation, Amplification and Responsibility." ONA18, Online News Association, 13 Sept. 2018, https://ona18.journalists.org/sessions/openingfeaturedconversation/.
boyd, danah. You Think You Want Media Literacy... Do You? Data & Society: Points, 16 Mar. 2018, https://points.datasociety.net/you-think-you-want-media-literacy-do-you-7cad6af18ec2.
Bragg, Melvyn. William Tyndale: A Very Brief History. Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge, 2017.
Brann, Noel L. "A Monastic Dilemma Posted by the Invention of Printing: the Context of De Laude Scriptorum Manualium by Abbot Johann Trithemius (1462-1516)." Visible Language, vol. 8, no. 2, 1979, pp. 150-167.
Brann, Noel L. The Abbot Trithemius (1462-1516): The Renaissance of Monastic Humanism. Brill, 1981.
Brenner, Robert. "Sins of Commission: The 40th Anniversary of the Illustrated Presidential Report of the Commission on Obscenity and Pornography." HuffPost, 25 May 2011, https://www.huffpost.com/entry/sins-of-commission-the-fo_b_779849.
Brock André. Distributed Blackness: African American Cybercultures. New York University Press, 2020.
Brock, André. "From the Blackhand Side: Twitter as a Cultural Conversation." Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media, vol. 56, no. 4, 2012, pp. 529-549., doi:10.1080/08838151.2012.732147.
Brooks, Joanna. "The Unfortunates: What the Life Spans of Early Black Books Tell Us About Book History." Early African American Print Culture, edited by Lara Langer. Cohen and Jordan Alexander. Stein, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2012, pp. 40-52.
Bruns, Axel. Are Filter Bubbles Real? Polity Press, 2019.
Bruster, Douglas. "Shakespeare the Stationer." Shakespeare's Stationers: Studies in Cultural Bibliography, edited by Marta Straznicky, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2013, pp. 112-131.
Burckhardt, Jacob, and Ludwig Goldscheider. The Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy. Translated by John Throgmorton Middlemore, Phaidon Press, 1944.
Burkart, Lucas. "Early Book Printing and Venture Capital in the Age of Debt: the Case of Michel Wenssler's Basel Printing Shop (1472-1491)." Buying and Selling: The Business of Books in Early Modern Europe, by Shanti Graheli, Brill, 2019, pp. 24-54.
Burke, Peter. The Art of Conversation. Cornell University Press, 1993.
Buturoiu, Raluca, et al. "Third-Person Perception and Its Predictors in the Age of Facebook." Journal of Media Research, vol. 10, no. 2, 2017, pp. 18-36., doi:10.24193/jmr.28.2.
Calhoun, Craig J. "Imagining Solidarity: Cosmopolitanism, Constitutional Patriotism, and the Public Sphere." Public Culture, vol. 14, no. 1, 2002, pp. 147-171., doi:10.1215/08992363-14-1-147.
Carey, James. " 'A Republic, If You Can Keep It': Liberty and Public Life in the Age of Glasnost." James Carey: A Critical Reader, edited by Eve Stryker Munson and Catherine A. Warren, University of Minnesota Press, 1997, pp. 207-227.
Carey, James W. Communication as Culture: Essays on Media and Society. Routledge, 2009.
Carey, James. "The Paradox of the Book." Library Trends, 1984, pp. 103-113.
Carey, John. The Intellectuals and the Masses: Pride and Prejudice among the Literary Intelligentsia, 1880-1939. St. Martin's Press, 1993.
Carrière Jean-Claude, Umberto Eco, Jean-Philippe de Tonnac. This Is Not the End of the Book: A Conversation Curated by Jean-Philippe De Tonnac. Translated by Polly McLean, Harvill Secker, 2011.
Cash, Arthur H. John Wilkes: The Scandalous Father of Civil Liberty. Yale University Press, 2006.
Cervantes, Miguel de. Don Quixote. Translated by Edith Grossman, Ecco, 2005.
Chappell, Warren. A Short History of the Printed Word. New York Times Book - André Deutsch Limited, 1972.
Chartier, Roger, editor. The Culture of Print. Princeton University Press, 1989.
Chartier, Roger, et al. Creation and Re-Creation of Cardenio: Performing Shakespeare, Transforming, edited by Terri Bourus, Palgrave Macmillan, 2013, pp. xiii-xviii.
Chartier, Roger. "Text, Printing, Readings." The New Cultural History, edited by Lynn Hunt and Aletta Biersack, University of California Press, 2010, pp. 154-175.
Chartier, Roger. The Author's Hand and the Printer's Mind. Polity, 2014.
Chordas, Nina. "Dialogue, Utopia, and the Agencies of Fiction." Printed Voices: The Renaissance Culture of Dialogue, edited by Dorothea B. Heitsch and Vallée Jean-François, University of Toronto Press, 2004, pp. 27-41.
Christie, Alix. Gutenberg's Apprentice. HarperCollins Canada, 2015.
Clanchy, M.T. "Looking Back from the Invention of Printing." The Quarterly Journal of the Library of Congress, vol. 39, no. 3, 1982, pp. 168-183.
Clanchy, M.T., "Parchment and Paper: Manuscript Culture 1100-1500." A Companion to the History of the Book, edited by Simon Eliot and Jonathan Rose. Blackwell, 2007.
Clement, Richard W. "Francisco De Robles, Cervantes, and the Spanish Book Trade." Mediterranean Studies, vol. 11, 2002, pp. 115-130.
Cochran, Julie Lawrence. "The Gothic Revival in France, 1830-1845: Victor Hugo's Notre-Dame De Paris, Popular Imagery, and a National Patrimony Discovered." Memory & Oblivion, 1999, pp. 393-399., doi:10.1007/978-94-011-4006-5_45.
Cochrane, J. A. Dr. Johnson's Printer: The Life of William Strahan. Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1964.
Cole, Richard G. "Reformation Printers: Unsung Heroes." Sixteenth Century Journal, vol. 15, no. 3, 1984, pp. 327-339., doi:10.2307/2540767.
Collins, Brian. "Reading Milton's Areopagitica: Essays on Religious Liberty, Freedom of the Press, Virtue and Vice." Exegesis and Theology, 12 July 2017, https://exegesisandtheology.com/2017/07/12/reading-miltons-areopagitica-essays-on-religious-liberty-freedom-of-the-press-virtue-and-vice/.
"Concerning Printing Inks." The American Bookmaker, July 1885, pp. 25-28.
Coover, Robert. "The End of Books." The New York Times Book Review, 21 June 1992, p. 1.
Corbu, Nicoleta, Denisa-Adriana Oprea, Elena Negrea-Busuioc, Loredana Radu. " 'They Can't Fool Me, but They Can Fool the Others!' Third Person Effect and Fake News Detection." European Journal of Communication, vol. 35, no. 2, 2020, pp. 165-180., doi:10.1177/0267323120903686.
Cormack, Lesley B. "Glob(Al) Visions: Globes and Their Publics in Early Modern Europe." Making Publics in Early Modern Europe: People, Things, Forms of Knowledge, edited by Bronwen Wilson and Paul Edward Yachnin, Routledge, 2011, pp. 139-156.
Cowan, Brian. "The Rise Of The Coffeehouse Reconsidered." The Historical Journal, vol. 47, no. 1, 2004, pp. 21-46., doi:10.1017/s0018246x03003492.
Cowan, Brian. The Social Life of Coffee: The Emergence of the British Coffeehouse. Yale University Press, 2005.
Crawford, Alice, and Andrew Pettegree. "The Renaissance Library and the Challenge of Print." The Meaning of the Library: A Cultural History, Princeton University Press, 2017, pp. 72-90.
Crossman, Ashley. "Understanding How Moral Panic Threatens Freedom." ThoughtCo, 14 July 2019, https://www.thoughtco.com/moral-panic-3026420.
Dane, Joseph A. Blind Impressions Methods and Mythologies in Book History. University of Pennsylvania Press, 2013.
Dane, Joseph A. Out of Sorts: On Typography and Print Culture. University of Pennsylvania Press, 2011.
Dane, Joseph A. The Myth of Print Culture: Essays on Evidence, Textuality, and Bibliographical Method. University of Toronto, 2003.
Dane, Joseph A. What Is a Book?: The Study of Early Printed Books. University of Notre Dame, 2012.
Darnton, Robert. The Business of Enlightenment: A Publishing History of the Encyclopédie 1775-1800. Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1979.
Darnton, Robert. The Case for Books: Past, Present, and Future. PublicAffairs, 2010.
Darnton, Robert. Censors at Work: How States Shaped Literature. W.W. Norton, 2014.
Darnton, Robert. Pirating & Publishing: The Book Trade in the Age of Enlightenment. Oxford University Press, 2021.
Darnton, Robert. "What Is the History of Books." Daedalus, vol. 111, no. 3, 1982, pp. 65-83.
Davis, Kathleen, and Michael Puett. "Periodization and 'The Medieval Globe': A Conversation." The Medieval Globe, vol. 2, no. 1, 2016, pp. 1-14., doi:10.17302/tmg.2-1.2.
Davis, Margaret Leslie. Lost Gutenberg: The Astounding Story of One Book's Five-Hundred-Year Odyssey. Atlantic Books, 2020.
Davison, W. Phillips. "The Third Person Effect in Communication." Public Opinion Quarterly, vol. 47, no. 1, 1983, pp. 1-15., doi:10.1086/268763.
de Strata, Filippo. Polemic Against Printing. Edited by Martin Lowry. Translated by Shelagh Grier, The Hayloft Press, 1986.
De Vinne, Theo. L. The Invention of Printing. A Collection of Facts and Opinions Descriptive of Early Prints and Playing Cards, the Block-Books of the Fifteenth Century, the Legend of Lourens Janzoon Coster, of Haarlem, and the Work of John Gutenberg and His Associates. Francis Hart and Co., 1878.
Deacon, Richard. A Biography of William Caxton: The First English Editor: Printer, Merchant and Translator. Frederick Muller, 1976.
Deazley, Ronan. "Commentary on the Statute of Anne 1710." Primary Sources on Copyright, School of Law, University of Birmingham, UK, 2008, https://www.copyrighthistory.org/cam/tools/request/showRecord?id=commentary_uk_1710.
Der Weduwen, Arthur, and Andrew Pettegree. The Dutch Republic and the Birth of Modern Advertising. Brill, 2020.
Dewar, James A. "The Information Age and the Printing Press: Looking Backward to See Ahead." RAND Corporation, 1 Jan. 1998, https://www.rand.org/pubs/papers/P8014.html.
Dewey, John. The Public and Its Problems. Swallow, 1927.
Diderot, Denis. "Letter on the Book Trade." Daedalus, Translated by Arthur Goldhammer, vol. 131, no. 2, 2002, pp. 48-56.
Dierks, Konstantin. "Letter Manuals, Literary Innovation, and the Problem of Defining Genre in Anglo-American Epistolary Instruction, 1568-1800." The Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America, vol. 94, no. 4, Dec. 2000, pp. 541-550., doi:10.1086/pbsa.94.4.24304273.
Dittmar, Jeremiah. "Book Prices in Early Modern Europe: An Economic Perspective." Buying and Selling: The Business of Books in Early Modern Europe, edited by Shanti Graheli, Brill, 2019, pp. 72-87.
Domes, Gregor, et al. "Oxytocin Improves 'Mind-Reading' in Humans." Biological Psychiatry, vol. 61, no. 6, 2007, pp. 731-733., doi:10.1016/j.biopsych.2006.07.015.
Driver, Martha W. "Women Printers and the Page, 1477-1541." Gutenberg Gesellschaft Jahrbuch, vol. 73, 1998, pp. 139-153.
Du Bois, W.E.B. and Eugene F. Provenzo, The Illustrated Souls of Black Folk, Taylor & Francis 2004, p. 14.
Duggan, Mary Kay. "Bringing Reformed Liturgy to Print at the New Monastery at Marienthal." Church History and Religious Culture, vol. 88, no. 3, 2008, pp. 415-436., doi:10.1163/187124108x426565.
Duncan, Dennis. Index: A History of The: A Bookish Adventure. Allen Lane, 2021.
Egginton, William. The Man Who Invented Fiction: How Cervantes Ushered in the Modern World. Bloomsbury, 2016.
Eire, Carlos M.N. Reformations: The Early Modern World, 1450-1650. Yale University Press, 2016.
Eisenstein, Elizabeth L. "An Unacknowledged Revolution Revisited." The American Historical Review, vol. 107, no. 1, Feb. 2002, pp. 87-105., doi:10.1086/ahr/107.1.87.
Eisenstein, Elizabeth L. Divine Art, Infernal Machine: The Reception of Printing in the West from First Impressions to the Sense of an Ending. University of Pennsylvania Press, 2011.
Eisenstein, Elizabeth L. "How to Acknowledge a Revolution: Reply." The American Historical Review, vol. 107, no. 1, Feb. 2002, pp. 126-128., doi:10.1086/532100.
Eisenstein, Elizabeth L. "Old Media in the New Millennium." Media Ecology Association. Media Ecology Association, 21 June 2002, New York, Marymount Manhattan College.
Eisenstein, Elizabeth L. "Some Conjectures about the Impact of Printing on Western Society and Thought: A Preliminary Report." The Journal of Modern History, vol. 40, no. 1, Mar. 1968, pp. 1-56., doi:10.1086/240164.
Eisenstein, Elizabeth L. "The Advent Of Printing And The Problem Of The Renaissance." Past and Present, vol. 45, no. 1, 1969, pp. 19-89., doi:10.1093/past/45.1.19.
Eisenstein, Elizabeth L. "The Advent of Printing in Current Historical Literature: Notes and Comments on an Elusive Transformation." The American Historical Review, vol. 75, no. 3, 1970, p. 727., doi:10.2307/1854527.
Eisenstein, Elizabeth L. The Printing Press as an Agent of Change. Cambridge University Press, 1980.
Eisenstein, Elizabeth. "Print Culture and Enlightenment Thought." Réseaux, vol. 6, no. 31, 1988, pp. 7-38., doi:10.3406/reso.1988.1287.
Ellis, Aytoun. The Penny Universities: A History of the Coffee-Houses. Secker & Warburg, 1956.
Ellis, Markman. The Coffee House: A Cultural History. Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 2011.
Emerson, Ralph Waldo. "Montaigne; or, the Skeptic," from the essay Representative Men, 1850, available from Emerson Central, 12 May 2020, https://emersoncentral.com/texts/representative-men/montaigne-the-skeptic/.
Empell, Hans-Michael. Gutenberg Vor Gericht: Der Mainzer Prozess Um Die Erste Gedruckte Bibel. Lang, 2008.
Erasmus, Desiderius, and Anthony Grafton. The Praise of Folly. Translated by Hoyt Hopewell Hudson, Princeton University Press, 2015.
Erne, Lukas. Shakespeare and the Book Trade. Cambridge University Press, 2015.
Erne, Lukas. Shakespeare as Literary Dramatist. Cambridge University Press, 2013.
Ettinghausen, Henry. "International Relations: Spanish, Italian, French, English and German Printed Single Event Newsletters Prior to Renaudot's Gazette." News Networks in Early Modern Europe, edited by Joad Raymond and Noah Moxham, Brill, 2016, pp. 261-279.
Falk, Seb. The Light Ages: The Surprising Story of Medieval Science. Norton, 2020.
Faulstich, Werner. Die Bürgerliche Mediengesellschaft (1700-1830). Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 2002.
Febvre, Lucien, and Henri-Jean Martin. The Coming of the Book: The Impact of Printing, 1450-1800. Verso, 2010.
Fiedler, Leslie A. "The Middle Against Both Ends." Mass Culture. The Popular Arts in America, edited by Bernard Rosenberg and David Manning White, The Free Press and The Falcon's Wing Press, 1957, pp. 537-547.
Fish, Stanley. There's No Such Thing as Free Speech and It's Good Thing, Too. Oxford University Press, 1994.
Foucault, Michel. The Essential Foucault: Selections from the Essential Works of Foucault, 1954-1984. Edited by Paul Rabinow and Nikolas Rose. The New Press, 2003.
Franklin, Benjamin. Benjamin Franklin: Writings. Edited by J.A. Leo LeMay, Library of America, 1987.
Franklin, Benjamin. The Papers of Benjamin Franklin, franklinpapers.org/framedVolumes.jsp.
Fraser, Nancy. "Rethinking the Public Sphere: A Contribution to the Critique of Actually Existing Democracy." Habermas and the Public Sphere, edited by Craig Calhoun, MIT Press, 1992, pp. 108-142.
Freelon, Deen, Charlton D. McIlwain, Meredith D. Clark. "Beyond the Hashtags: #Ferguson, #Blacklivesmatter, and the Online Struggle for Offline Justice." Center for Media and Social Impact, Feb. 2016, https://cmsimpact.org/resource/beyond-hashtags-ferguson-blacklivesmatter-online-struggle-offline-justice/.
Fried, Johannes. The Middle Ages. Translated by Peter Lewis, Belknap, 2017.
Fuhrmann, Otto W. Gutenberg and the Strasbourg Documents of 1439. Press of the Woolly Whale, 1940.
Fuhrmann, Otto W. "The Modern Conception Of Gutenberg." The Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America, vol. 35, no. 1, 1941, pp. 1-16., doi:10.1086/pbsa.35.1.24296509.
Füssel Stephan, and Johannes Gutenberg. The Gutenberg Bible of 1454. Taschen GmbH, 2018.
Füssel Stephan. Gutenberg and the Impact of Printing. Translated by Douglas Martin, Ashgate, 2005.
Füssel, Stephan. Gutenberg. Translated by Peter Lewis, Haus Publishing, 2019.
Fyfe, Aileen. Steam-Powered Knowledge: William Chambers and the Business of Publishing, 1820-1860. The University of Chicago Press, 2012.
Gaines, Ervin J. "Silence, Too, Is a Form of Censorship." ALA Bulletin, vol. 58, no. 1, Jan. 1964, pp. 17-18.
Gans, Herbert J. Middle American Individualism: The Future of Liberal Democracy. The Free Press, 1988.
Garfield, Simon. Just My Type: A Book about Fonts. Gotham Books, 2011.
Gaudio, Rudolf P. "Coffeetalk: Starbucks™ and the Commercialization of Casual Conversation." Language in Society, vol. 32, no. 5, Nov. 2003, pp. 659-691., doi:10.1017/s0047404503325035.
Gerritsen, Johan. "Printing at Froben's: An Eye-Witness Account." Studies in Bibliography, vol. 44, 1991, pp. 144-163.
Giesebrecht, Ludwig, and Carl Löwe. Gutenberg: Oratorium in Drei Abtheilungen. F.W. Gubiss, 1860.
Gill, Eric, and Christopher Skelton. An Essay on Typography. David R. Godine, 2016.
Giner, Salvador. Mass Society. Martin Robertson, 1976.
Glaister, Geoffrey Ashall. Encyclopedia of the Book. Oak Knoll Press, 2001.
Glaude, Eddie S. "The Problem of African American Public(s): Dewey and African American Politics in the 21st Century." Contemporary Pragmatism, vol. 7, no. 1, June 2010, pp. 9-29., doi:10.1163/18758185-90000153.
Grafton, Anthony. "Introduction." The American Historical Review, vol. 107, no. 1, Feb. 2002, pp. 84-86.
Green, Jonathan. Printing and Prophecy: Prognostication and Media Change, 1450-1550. University of Michigan Press, 2014.
Green, Jonathon. Chasing the Sun: Dictionary-Makers and the Dictionaries They Made. Jonathan Cape, 1996.
Greenblatt, Stephen. "Shakespeare's Montaigne." Shakespeare's Montaigne: The Florio Translation of the Essays, edited by Stephen Greenblatt and Peter G. Platt, by Michel de Montaigne, New York Review Books, 2014, pp. ix-xxxiii.
Greenwald, Anthony G. "The Totalitarian Ego: Fabrication and Revision of Personal History." American Psychologist, vol. 35, no. 7, 1980, pp. 603-618., doi:10.1037/0003-066x.35.7.603.
Grinberg, Nir, and Kenneth Joseph, Lisa Friedland, Briony Swire-Thompson, David Lazar. "Fake News on Twitter During the 2016 U.S. Presidential Election." Science, vol. 63, no. 6425, January 25, 2019, pp. 374-378.
Guess, Andrew, Jonathan Nagler, and Joshua Tucker. "Less Than You Think: Prevalence and Predictors of Fake News Dissemination on Facebook." Science Advances, vol. 5, no. 1, 9 Jan. 2019, doi:10.1126/sciadv.aau4586.
Gunaratne, Shelton A. "Paper, Printing and the Printing Press: A Horizontally Integrative Macrohistory Analysis." Gazette (Leiden, Netherlands), vol. 63, no. 6, 2001, pp. 459-479., doi:10.1177/0016549201063006001.
Guo, Lei, and Brett G. Johnson. "Third-Person Effect and Hate Speech Censorship on Facebook." Social Media + Society, vol. 6, no. 2, 2020, pp. 1-12., doi:10.1177/2056305120923003.
Gutenberg-Fest Zu Mainz Im Jahre 1900: Zugleich Erinnerungs-Gabe an Die Eröffnung Des Gutenberg-Museums Am 12 June 1901. Heinrich Prickarts, 1901.
Habermas, Jürgen. "Political Communication in Media Society: Does Democracy Still Enjoy an Epistemic Dimension? The Impact of Normative Theory on Empirical Research." Communication Theory, vol. 16, no. 4, 2006, pp. 411-426.
Habermas, Jürgen. "Reflections and Hypotheses on a Further Structural Transformation of the Political Public Sphere." Theory, Culture & Society, vol. 39, no. 4, 2022, pp. 145-171.
Habermas, Juürgen. The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere: An Inquiry into a Category of Bourgeois Society. Translated by Thomas Burger and Frederick Lawrence, MIT Press, 1991.
Hafner, Katie. "The Epic Saga of the Well." Wired. May 1, 1997.
Halasz, Alexandra. "The Stationers' Shakespeare." Shakespeare's Stationers: Studies in Cultural Bibliography, edited by Marta Straznicky, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2013, pp. 17-27.
Hansard, Thomas Curson. Typographia: A Historical Sketch of the Art and Progress of Printing; With Practical Directions for Conducting Every Department in an Office: With a Description of Stereotype and Lithography. Baldwin, Cradock, and Joy, 1825.
Hart, Harold H. Censorship: For and Against. Hart Publishing Company, 1971.
Haugland, Ann. "Book Propaganda: Edward L. Bernays's 1930 Campaign Against Dollar Books." Book History, vol. 3, no. 1, 2000, pp. 231-252., doi:10.1353/bh.2000.0010.
Haveman, Heather A. Magazines and the Making of America: Modernization, Community, and Print Culture, 1741-1860. Princeton University Press, 2015.
Hayes, Kevin J. "Railway Reading." The American Antiquarian Society, vol. 106, 1997, pp. 301-326.
Heitsch, Dorothea B., and Jean-Francois Vallee, editors. "Dialogs with History, Religion, and Science." Printed Voices The Renaissance Culture of Dialogue, by Joseph Puterbaugh, University of Toronto Press, 2014, pp. 138-156.
Heitsch, Dorothea B., and Vallée Jean-François. "Foreword." Printed Voices: The Renaissance Culture of Dialogue, University of Toronto Press, 2004, pp. ix-xxiii.
Helgerson, Richard. Forms of Nationhood: The Elizabethan Writing of England. University of Chicago Press, 1992.
Hellinga, Lotte. "Analytical Bibliography and the Study of Early Printed Books with a Case-Study of the Mainz Catholicon." Gutenberg-Jahrbuch, 1989, pp. 47-96.
Hellinga, Lotte. "Comments on Paul Needham's Notes in: Gutenberg-Jahrbuch." Gutenberg-Jahrbuch, vol. 65, 1990, pp. 65-69.
Hellinga, Lotte. "Dr. Lotte Hellinga Weist in Folgendem Auf Einen Weiteren Eigenen Beitrag Über Das Mainz Catholicon Hin, Der Im Gutenberg-Jahrbuch 1992 Erscheinen Wird." Gutenberg-Jahrbuch, vol. 66, 1991, pp. 5-5.
Hellinga, Lotte. Incunabula in Transit: People and Trade. Brill, 2018.
Hellinga, Lotte. "Slipped Lines and Fallen Type in the Mainz Catholicon." Gutenberg-Jahrbuch, vol. 67, 1992, pp. 35-40.
Hellinga, Lotte. Texts in Transit: Manuscript to Proof and Print in the Fifteenth Century. Brill, 2014.
Hessels, Jan Hendrik. Gutenberg Was He the Inventor of Printing?: an Historical Investigation Embodying a Criticism on Dr. Van Der Linde's "Gutenberg". Bernard Quaritch, 1882.
Hill, Alexandra. "The Lamentable Tale of Lost Ballads in England, 1557-1640." Broadsheets: Single-Sheet Publishing in the First Age of Print, edited by Andrew Pettegree, Brill, 2017, pp. 442-458.
Hill, Samantha Rose. "For Hannah Arendt, Totalitarianism Is Rooted in Loneliness - Samantha Rose Hill: Aeon Essays." Aeon, Aeon, 31 Oct. 2020, aeon.co/essays/for-hannah-arendt-totalitarianism-is-rooted-in-loneliness.
Hillgärtner, Jan. "Turning News into a Business: The Commerce of Early Newspaper Publishing." Buying and Selling: The Business of Books in Early Modern Europe, edited by Shanti Graheli, Brill, 2019, pp. 397-419.
Hinds, Peter. " 'A Vast Ill Nature': Roger L'Estrange, Reputation, and the Credibility of Political Discourse in the Late Seventeenth Century." The Seventeenth Century, vol. 21, no. 2, 2006, pp. 335-363., doi:10.1080/0268117x.2006.10555581.
Hoffman, George. Montaigne's Career. Clarendon Press, 1998.
Holborn, Louise W. "Printing and the Growth of a Protestant Movement in Germany from 1517 to 1524." Church History, vol. 11, no. 2, June 1942, pp. 123-137., doi:10.2307/3160291.
Hollis, Richard. "Arts: The Party Line: In Nazi Germany Using the Wrong Kind of Typeface Could Earn You a Visit from the Gestapo." The Guardian, 18 Dec. 2000.
Hone, Joseph. The Paper Chase: The Printer, the Spymaster, and the Hunt for the Rebel Pamphleteers. Chatto & Windus, 2020.
Houston, Keith. Shady Characters: The Secret Life of Punctuation, Symbols & Other Typographical Marks. W.W. Norton & Company, 2014.
Houston, Keith. The Book: A Cover-to-Cover Exploration of the Most Powerful Object of Our Time. W.W. Norton, 2016.
Howard, Joseph. "Joseph Howard." Censorship: For and Against, edited by Harold H. Hart, Hart, 1971, pp. 26-43.
Howard, Nicole. The Book: The Life Story of a Technology. Johns Hopkins University Press, 2009.
Howe, Irving. "Notes on Mass Culture." Mass Culture: The Popular Arts in America, edited by Bernard Rosenberg and David Manning White, The Free Press and The Falcon's Wing Press, 1957, pp. 496-503.
Howsam, Leslie. "In My View: Women and Book History." SHARP News, vol. 7, no. 4, 1998, pp. 1-2.
Hudson, N. "Challenging Eisenstein: Recent Studies in Print Culture." Eighteenth-Century Life, vol. 26, no. 2, 2002, pp. 83-95., doi:10.1215/00982601-26-2-83.
Hugo, Victor. The Hunchback of Notre Dame. Translated anonymously. Barnes & Noble, 2008.
Huizinga, Johan. Autumntide of the Middle Ages: A Study of Forms of Life and Thought of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Centuries in France and the Low Countries. Edited by Graeme Small and Anton van der Lem. Translated by Diane Webb, Leiden University Press, 2020.
Hume, David. Letters of David Hume to William Strahan - Online Library of Liberty. Edited by G. Birkbeck Hill, https://oll.libertyfund.org/titles/hume-letters-of-david-hume-to-william-strahan.
Hunter, Dard. Papermaking: The History and Technique of an Ancient Craft. Dover Publications, 1978.
Huss, Richard E. The Development of Printers' Mechanical Typesetting Methods: 1822-1925. Bibliographical Society of the University of Virginia, 1973.
In Readers' Hands: Traces of Use in Early Modern Bibles from the Maurits Sabbe Library. KU Leuven Libraries, July 2020, https://expo.bib.kuleuven.be/exhibits/show/in-readers-hands.
Innis, Harold A. Harold Innis's History of Communications. Edited by William Buxton, Michael R. Cheney, Paul Heyer. Rowman & Littlefield, 2015.
Ivins, William Mills. Prints and Visual Communication. The MIT Press, 1969.
Jackaway, Gwenyth L. Media at War: Radio's Challenge to the Newspapers, 1924-1939. Praeger, 1995.
Jackson, Sarah J., Moya Bailey, Brooke Foucault Welles, Genie Lauren. #HashtagActivism: Networks of Race and Gender Justice. The MIT Press, 2020.
Jang, S. Mo, and Joon K. Kim. "Third Person Effects of Fake News: Fake News Regulation and Media Literacy Interventions." Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 80, 2018, pp. 295-302., doi:10.1016/j.chb.2017.11.034.
Janssen, Frans A. "The Battle of Perspectives in Book History, 1960-2000." La Bibliofilía, vol. 115, no. 2, May 2013, pp. 383-390.
Jarvis, Jeff. Public Parts: How Sharing in the Digital Age Improves the Way We Work and Live. Simon & Schuster, 2011.
Jarvis, Jeff. What Would Google Do? HarperCollins, 2009.
Jensen, Kristian. Incunabula and Their Readers Printing, Selling and Using Books in the Fifteenth Century. British Library, 2003.
Jepsen, Thomas C. My Sisters Telegraphic: Women in the Telegraph Office, 1846-1950. Ohio University Press, 2000.
Johns, Adrian. "How to Acknowledge a Revolution." The American Historical Review, vol. 107, no. 1, Feb. 2002, pp. 106-125., doi:10.1086/532099.
Johns, Adrian. The Nature of the Book: Print and Knowledge in the Making. University of Chicago Press, 1998.
Junger, Sebastian. Tribe. Fourth Estate Ltd, 2017.
Kapr, Albert. Johann Gutenberg: The Man and His Invention. Translated by Douglas Martin, Scolar Press, 1996.
Keating, Charles H. "Charles H. Keating, Jr." Censorship: For and Against, edited by Harold H. Hart, Hart, 1971, pp. 92-112.
Kells, Stuart. Shakespeare's Library: Unlocking the Greatest Mystery in Literature. Counterpoint, 2020.
Kelly, Kevin. "Scan This Book!" The New York Times, 14 May 2006, https://www.nytimes.com/2006/05/14/magazine/14publishing.html.
King, Rachael Scarborough. Writing to the World: Letters and the Origins of Modern Print Genres. Johns Hopkins University Press, 2018.
King, Ross. The Bookseller of Florence: The Story of the Manuscripts That Illustrated the Renaissance. Grove Press, 2021.
Kirschenbaum, Matthew G. Track Changes: A Literary History of Word Processing. Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 2016.
Kirschenbaum, Valerie. Goodbye Gutenberg: Hello to a New Generation of Readers and Writers. Global Renaissance Society, 2005.
Kittler, Friedrich A. Gramophone, Film, Typewriter. Translated by G.W. Young, Stanford University Press, 1999.
Klein, Lawrence E. "Coffeehouse Civility, 1660-1714: An Aspect of Post-Courtly Culture in England." Huntington Library Quarterly, vol. 59, no. 1, 1996, pp. 30-51.
Kornhauser, William. The Politics of Mass Society. The Free Press, 1959.
Korzi, Michael J. "Lapsed Memory? The Roots of American Public Opinion Research." Polity, vol. 33, no. 1, 2000, pp. 49-75., doi:10.2307/3235460.
Kosseff, Jeff. The Twenty-Six Words That Created the Internet. Cornell University Press, 2019.
Kramer, Jane. "Me, Myself, And I." The New Yorker, 31 Aug. 2009, https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2009/09/07/me-myself-and-i.
Kubler, George A. A New History of Stereotyping. Privately Published, 1941.
Kubler, George A. The Era of Charles Mahon Third Earl of Stanhope: Stereotyper 1750-1825. Privately Published, 1938.
Kurlansky, Mark. Paper: Paging through History. W.W. Norton & Company, 2016.
Künast, Hans-Jörg. "Augsburg's Role in the German Book Trade in the First Half of the Sixteenth Century." The Book Triumphant, edited by Malcolm Walsby and Graeme Kemp, Brill, 2012, pp. 320-333.
Lasch, Christopher. "Journalism, Publicity and the Lost Art of Argument." Gannett Center Journal, 1990, pp. 1-11.
Lawson, Alexander. Anatomy of a Typeface. David R. Godine, 1990.
Le Bon, Gustave. The Crowd: A Study of the Popular Mind. Maestro Reprints, 2017.
Leary, Lewis, and Joseph Dennie. "Joseph Dennie on Benjamin Franklin: A Note on Early American Literary Criticism." The Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography, vol. 72, no. 3, July 1948, pp. 240-246.
Lehmann-Haupt, Hellmut, Lawrence Counselman Wroth, Rollo Gabriel Silver. The Book in America: A History of the Making and Selling of Books in the United States. R.R. Bowker Company, 1952.
Lehmann-Haupt, Hellmut. Peter Schoeffer of Gernsheim and Mainz: With a List of His Surviving Books and Broadsides. The Printing House of Leo Hart, 1950.
Lelyveld, Arthur. "Arthur Lelyveld." Censorship: For and Against, edited by Harold H. Hart, Hart, 1971, pp. 164-177.
Lemay, J.A. Leo. The Life of Benjamin Franklin, Vol. 1: Journalist, 1706-1730. University of Pennsylvania Press, 2005.
Lemay, J.A. Leo. The Life of Benjamin Franklin, Vol. 2: Printer and Publisher, 1730-1747. University of Pennsylvania Press, 2006.
Lenard, Max. "On the Origin, Development and Demise of The Index Librorum Prohibitorum." Journal of Access Services, vol. 3, no. 4, 2005, pp. 51-62., doi:10.1300/j204v03n04_05.
Leonard, John. The Value of Milton. Cambridge University Press, 2016.
Lerner, Max. "Max Lerner." Censorship: For and Against, edited by Harold H. Hart, Hart, 1971, pp. 178-197.
L'Estrange, Roger. "Considerations and Proposals in Order to the Regulation of the Press Together with Diverse Instances of Treasonous, and Seditious Pamphlets, Proving the Necessity Thereof / by Roger L'Estrange." Oxford Text Archive, Bodleian Library, University of Oxford, 1663, https://ota.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/repository/xmlui/handle/20.500.12024/A47832.
L'Estrange, Roger. "The Observator: Selections." Oxford Text Archive, Bodleian Library, University of Oxford, 1687, https://ota.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/repository/xmlui/bitstream/handle/20.500.12024/3139/3139.html?sequence=6&isAllowed=y.
Lidsky, Lyrissa Barnett. "Nobody's Fools: The Rational Audience as First Amendment Ideal." University of Illinois Law Journal, vol. 2010, no. 3, 30 Apr. 2010, pp. 799-850.
Lindsey, Brink, and Daniel Takash. "Why 'Intellectual Property' Is a Misnomer." Niskanen Center, Sept. 2019, https://www.niskanencenter.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/LT_IPMisnomer-2-1.pdf.
Lippmann, Walter. Public Opinion. The Free Press, 1997.
Lowery, Wesley. "A Reckoning Over Objectivity, Led by Black Journalists." The New York Times, 23 June 2020, https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/23/opinion/objectivity-black-journalists-coronavirus.html.
Lowry, Martin. The World of Aldus Manutius: Business and Scholarship in Renaissance Venice. Basil Blackwell/Cornell University Press, 1979.
Luther, Martin. Sermon Von Ablass Und Gnade (Sermon on Indulgence and Grace). Translated by Howard Jones, Taylor Institution Library, 2018.
Lydgate, Barry. "Mortgaging One's Work to the World: Publication and the Structure of Montaigne's Essais." PMLA, vol. 96, no. 2, Mar. 1981, pp. 210-223., doi:10.2307/461989.
Macaulay, Thomas Babington. The History of England: From the Accession of James II. Vol. 1, Gutenberg.org, 2008. https://www.gutenberg.org/files/1468/1468-h/1468-h.htm.
Macdonald, Dwight. Against the American Grain: Essays on the Effects of Mass Culture. Victor Gallancz, 1963.
Macdonald, Dwight. "A Theory of Mass Culture." Mass Culture: The Popular Arts in America, edited by Bernard Rosenberg and David Manning White. The Free Press, 1957, pp. 59-73.
MacKellar, Thomas. The American Printer: A Manual of Typography, Containing Complete Instructions for Beginners, as Well as Practical Directions for Managing Every Department of a Printing Office: With Several Useful Tables, Numerous Schemes for Imposing Forms in Every Variety, Hints to Authors, Etc. MacKellar, Smiths & Jordan, 1878.
Mader, Rodney. "Print Culture Studies and Technological Determinism." College Literature, vol. 36, no. 2, 2009, pp. 131-140., doi:10.1353/lit.0.0047.
Magno, Alessandro Marzo. Bound in Venice: The Serene Republic and the Dawn of the Book. Translated by Gregory Conti, Europa Editions, 2013.
Man, John. The Gutenberg Revolution. Transworld, 2009.
Manguel, Alberto. A History of Reading. Penguin Books, 2014.
Mannheim, Karl. Essays on the Sociology of Culture. Routledge, 1992.
Marcus, Hannah. Forbidden Knowledge: Medicine, Science, and Censorship in Early Modern Italy. University of Chicago Press, 2020.
Marcus, Leah S. "Cyberspace Renaissance." English Literary Renaissance, vol. 25, no. 3, 1995, pp. 388-401.
Markoff, John. Whole Earth: The Many Lives of Stewart Brand. Penguin Press, 2022.
Martin, Peter. Dictionary Wars: The American Fight over the English Language. Princeton University Press, 2019.
Martin, Waldo. Mind of Frederick Douglass. University of North Carolina Press, 1985.
Massing, Michael. Fatal Discord: Erasmus, Luther, and the Fight for the Western Mind. Harper, an Imprint of HarperCollins Publishers, 2018.
McCarthy, Eugene. "Eugene McCarthy." Censorship: For and Against, edited by Harold H. Hart, Hart, 1971, pp. 112-123.
McCarthy, Isabel Feder. "Ad Fontes: A New Look at the Watermarks on Paper Copies of the Gutenberg Bible." The Library, 7th series, vol. 17, no. 2, June 2016, pp. 115-137.
McClellan, Martin. "Tschichold, Nazis and Allen Lane: The Modernist Politics of Type." McSweeney's, 27 Jan. 2010, https://www.mcsweeneys.net/articles/tschichold-nazis-and-allen-lane-the-modernist-politics-of-type.
McCrory, Donald P. No Ordinary Man: The Life and Times of Meguel De Cervantes. Dover Publications, 2006.
McCutcheon, R.W. "Silent Reading in Antiquity and the Future History of the Book." Book History, vol. 18, no. 1, 2015, pp. 1-32., doi:10.1353/bh.2015.0011.
McDowell, Paula. "On the Behalf of the Printers: A Late Stuart Printer-Author and Her Causes." Agent of Change: Print Culture Studies after Elizabeth L. Eisenstein, edited by Sabrina A. Baron et al., University of Massachusetts Press, 2007, pp. 125-139.
McIlvenna, Una. "When the News Was Sung." Media History, vol. 22, no. 3-4, 2016, pp. 317-333., doi:10.1080/13688804.2016.1211930.
McIlwain, Charlton D. Black Software: The Internet and Racial Justice from the Afronet to Black Lives Matter. Oxford University Press, 2020.
McLeod, Douglas M., Benjamin H. Detenberg, William P. Evland Jr. "Behind the Third-Person Effect: Differentiating Perceptual Processes for Self and Other." Journal of Communication, vol. 51, no. 4, Dec. 2001, pp. 678-695., doi:10.1111/j.1460-2466.2001.tb02902.x.
McLuhan, Marshall, and Quentin Fiore. The Medium Is the Massage. Gingko Press, 2001.
McLuhan, Marshall, et al. Forward through the Rearview Mirror: Reflections on and by Marshall Mcluhan. Prentice Hall Canada, 1997.
McLuhan, Marshall. "Address at Vision 65." The American Scholar, vol. 35, no. 2, 1966, pp. 196-205.
McLuhan, Marshall. "Book Reviews." Renaissance and Reformation, vol. 17, no. 2, 1981, pp. 98-104.
McLuhan, Marshall. "Effects of the Improvements of Communication Media." The Journal of Economic History, vol. 20, no. 4, Dec. 1960, pp. 566-575., doi:10.1017/s0022050700109842.
McLuhan, Marshall. "Is Book Dead?" The Clearing House, vol. 42, no. 7, Mar. 1968, pp. 447-448.
McLuhan, Marshall. Marshall McLuhan: Book of Probes. Edited by Eric McLuhan et al., Gingko Press, 2003.
McLuhan, Marshall. The Gutenberg Galaxy. University of Toronto Press, 1962.
McLuhan, Marshall. Understanding Media. Routledge, 2001.
McMurtrie, Douglas Crawford. The Book, the Story of Printing and Bookmaking, by Douglas C. McMurtrie. Oxford University Press, 1943.
Mencken, H.L. The American Language: An Inquiry into the Development of English in the United States. Alfred A. Knopf, 1936.
Menzies, Gavin. 1434: The Year a Magnificent Chinese Fleet Sailed to Italy and Ignited the Renaissance. William Morrow, 2008.
Michelson, Bruce. Printer's Devil: Mark Twain and the American Publishing Revolution. University of California Press, 2006.
Milton, John. "Areopagitica." Project Gutenberg, 1644, https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/608.
Minnich, Nelson H. "The Fifth Lateran Council and Preventative Censorship of Printed Books." Annali Della Scuola Normale Superiore Di Pisa, vol. 2, no. 1, ser. 5, 2010, pp. 67-104. 5.
Monfasani, John. "The First Call for Press Censorship: Niccolò Perotti, Giovanni Andrea Bussi, Antonio Moreto, and the Editing of Pliny's Natural History*." Renaissance Quarterly, vol. 41, no. 1, 1988, pp. 1-31., doi:10.2307/2862242.
Montaigne, Michel de, et al. Shakespeare's Montaigne: The Florio Translation of the Essays. Translated by John Florio, New York Review Books, 2014.
Montaigne, Michel de. Michel De Montaigne: The Complete Essays. Translated by M. A. Screech, Penguin Books, 1987.
Montaigne, Michel de. The Complete Essays of Montaigne. Translated by Donald M. Frame, Stanford University Press, 1986.
Moran, James. Printing Presses: History and Development from the Fifteenth Century to Modern Times. University of California Press, 1978.
More, Thomas, et al. Three Early Modern Utopias: Utopia, New Atlantis, and the Isle of Pines. Edited by Susan Bruce, Oxford University Press, 2008.
Morison, Stanley. First Principles of Typography. Macmillan, 1936.
Morrison, James C. "Marshall McLuhan: No Prophet without Honor." AmeriQuests, vol. 3, no. 2, 2006, pp. 1-20., doi:10.15695/amqst.v3i2.83.
Moxon, Joseph. Mechanick Exercises on the Whole Art of Printing, Dover, 1978.
Munson, Eve Stryker, and Catherine A. Warren, editors. James Carey: A Critical Reader. University of Minnesota Press, 1997.
Nagaraj, Abhishek, and Imke Reimers. "Digitization and the Demand for Physical Works: Evidence from the Google Books Project." SSRN, 4 Mar. 2019, papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3339524.
Napoli, Philip M. "What If More Speech Is No Longer the Solution? First Amendment Theory Meets Fake News and the Filter Bubble." Federal Communications Law Journal, vol. 70, no. 1, 2017, pp. 55-104.
Needham, Paul. "Corrective Notes on the Date of the Catholicon Press." Gutenberg-Jahrbuch, vol. 65, 1990, pp. 46-64.
Needham, Paul. "Division of Copy in the Gutenberg Bible: Three Glosses on the Ink Evidence." The Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America, vol. 79, no. 3, 1985, pp. 411-426., doi:10.1086/pbsa.79.3.24303665.
Needham, Paul. "Further Corrective Notes on the Date of the Catholicon Press." Gutenberg-Jahrbuch, vol. 66, 1991, pp. 101-126.
Needham, Paul. "Johann Gutenberg and the Catholicon Press." The Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America, vol. 76, no. 4, 1982, pp. 395-456., doi:10.1086/pbsa.76.4.24302468.
Needham, Paul. "Slipped Lines in the Mainz Catholicon: A Second Opinion." Gutenberg-Jahrbuch, vol. 68, 1993, pp. 25-29.
Needham, Paul. The First Quarter Century of European Printing. A.S.W. Rosenbach Lectures in Bibliography, University of Pennsylvania Libraries, Mar. 2013, https://repository.upenn.edu/rosenbach/7/.
Newkirk, Thomas. "Montaigne's Revisions." Rhetoric Review, vol. 24, no. 3, 2005, pp. 298-315., doi:10.1207/s15327981rr2403_4.
Nietzsche, Friedrich. Nietzsche: Human, All Too Human: A Book for Free Spirits. Translated by R.J. Hollingdale, Cambridge University Press, 1996.
Nisbet, Robert. The Sociological Tradition. Basic Books, 1966.
Nuovo, Angela. "A Lost Arabic Koran Rediscovered." The Library, vol. s6-12, no. 4, 1990, pp. 273-292., doi:10.1093/library/s6-12.4.273.
O'Callaghan, Daniel, editor and translator. The Preservation of Jewish Religious Books in Sixteenth-Century Germany: Johannes Reuchlin's Augenspiegel. Brill, 2012, pp. 95-96.
Olmsted, Kathryn S. The Newspaper Axis: Six Press Barons Who Enabled Hitler. Yale, 2022.
Ong, Walter J. Orality and Literacy: The Technologizing of the Word. Routledge, 1982.
O'Rielly, Henry Brooks. American Telegraph Magazine, 1852. https://www.google.com/books/edition/_/HZ4xAQAAMAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0.
O'Rielly, Henry Brooks. Chapters of Telegraph History. J.B. O'Rielly, 1862.
Ortega y Gasset, José. The Revolt of the Masses. Norton, 1993.
Ovenden, Richard. Burning the Books. John Murray Publishers, 2020.
Owen, David. Copies in Seconds: How a Lone Inventor and an Unknown Company Created the Biggest Communication Breakthrough since Gutenberg - Chester Carlson and the Birth of Xerox. Simon & Schuster, 2004.
Ozment, Kate. "Rationale for Feminist Bibliography." Textual Cultures, vol. 13, no. 1, 2020, pp. 149-78., doi:10.14434/textual.v13i1.30076.
Painter, George D. "The True Portrait of Johann Gutenberg." Gutenberg Gesellschaft Jahrbuch, 1965, pp. 73-79.
Painter, George D. "The Untrue Portraits of Johann Gutenberg." Gutenberg Gesellschaft Jahrbuch, 1967, pp. 54-60.
Painter, George D. William Caxton: A Quincentenary Biography of England's First Printer. Chatto & Windus, 1976.
Palmer, Ada. "Black Death, COVID, and Why We Keep Telling the Myth of a Renaissance Golden Age and Bad Middle Ages." Ex Urbe, 4 June 2020, https://www.exurbe.com/black-death-covid-and-why-we-keep-telling-the-myth-of-a-renaissance-golden-age-and-bad-middle-ages/.
Pardoe, F.E. John Baskerville of Birmingham: Letter-Founder and Printer. Frederick Muller Limited, 1975.
Parker, Geoffrey. Emperor: A New Life of Charles V. Yale University Press, 2019.
Parker, Geoffrey. Imprudent King: A New Life of Philip II. Yale University Press, 2015.
Patry, William. Moral Panics and the Copyright Wars. Oxford University Press, 2009.
Patterson, Lee. "On the Margin: Postmodernism, Ironic History, and Medieval Studies." Speculum, vol. 65, no. 1, Jan. 1990, pp. 87-108., doi:10.2307/2864473.
Perloff, Richard M. "The Third Person Effect: A Critical Review and Synthesis." Media Psychology, vol. 1, no. 4, 1999, pp. 353-378., doi:10.1207/s1532785xmep0104_4.
Perrin, Noel. Dr. Bowdler's Legacy: A History of Expurgated Books in England and America. Atheneum, 1969.
Perry, Timothy P.J. "Early Depictions of the Printing Press: A Model Source." Printing History, vol. 18, 2015, p. 27.
Petta, Massimo. "War News in Early Modern Milan: The Birth and Shaping of Printed News Pamphlets." News Networks in Early Modern Europe, edited by Joad Raymond and Noah Moxham, Brill, 2016, pp. 280-304.
Pettegree, Andrew, and Arthur der Weduwen. The Bookshop of the World: Making and Trading Books in the Dutch Golden Age. Yale University Press, 2019.
Pettegree, Andrew, and Shanti Graheli. "How to Lose Money in the Business of Books: Commercial Strategies in the First Age of Print." Buying and Selling: the Business of Books in Early Modern Europe, edited by Shanti Graheli, Brill, 2019, pp. 1-20.
Pettegree, Andrew. Brand Luther: 1517, Printing, and the Making of the Reformation. Penguin Books, 2015.
Pettegree, Andrew. "Print and the Reformation: A Drama in Three Acts." Church History, vol. 86, no. 4, Dec. 2017, pp. 980-997., doi:10.1017/s0009640717002116.
Pettegree, Andrew. "Print, Politics & Prosperity." History Today, vol. 64, no. 2, Feb. 2014, pp. 11-17.
Pettegree, Andrew. "Printing in the Low Countries in the Early Sixteenth Century." The Book Triumphant: Print in Transition in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries, edited by Malcolm Walsby and Graeme Kemp, Brill, 2011, pp. 3-25.
Pettegree, Andrew. Reformation and the Culture of Persuasion. Cambridge University Press, 2005.
Pettegree, Andrew. The Book in the Renaissance. Yale University Press, 2010.
Pettegree, Andrew. The French Book and the European Book World. Brill, 2007.
Pettegree, Andrew. The Invention of News: How the World Came to Know about Itself. Yale University Press, 2014.
Pettegree, Andrew. "Was There an Enlightenment Culture of News?" Travelling Chronicles: News and Newspapers from the Early Modern Period to the Eighteenth Century, edited by Siv Gøril Brandtzaeg et al., Brill, 2018, pp. 321-341.
Pettitt, Tom. "Before the Gutenberg Parenthesis: Elizabethan-American Compatibilities." Paper delivered before Media in Transition 5: MIT, Cambridge, MA, 2007. https://www.academia.edu/2946207/Before_the_Gutenberg_Parenthesis_Elizabethan_American_Compatibilities.
Pettitt, Tom. "Containment and Articulation: Media Technology, Cultural Production and the Perception of the Material World." Media in Transition 6: MIT, Apr. 2009, doi:http://web.mit.edu/comm-forum/legacy/mit6/papers/Pettitt.pdf.
Pettitt, Tom. "The Renaissance of Rumor? Tracing Patterns in the Deep History of News Mediation." Media in Transition 10: MIT, May 2019, doi:https://www.academia.edu/38860871/The_Renaissance_of_Rumor_Tracing_Patterns_in_the_Deep_History_of_News_Mediation.
Pieper, Renate. "News from the New World: Spain's Monopoly in the European Network of Handwritten Newsletters during the Sixteenth Century." News Networks in Early Modern Europe, edited by Joad Raymond and Noah Moxham, Brill, 2016, pp. 495-511.
Pierce, Patricia. "Shakespeare and the Forgotten Heroes." History Today, July 2006, pp. 3-4.
Piper, Andrew. Book Was There: Reading in Electronic Times. University of Chicago Press, 2013.
Plomer, H.R. "The Printers Of Shakespeare's Plays And Poems." The Library, s2-VII, no. 26, Apr. 1906, pp. 149-166., doi:10.1093/library/s2-vii.26.149.
Pollak, Michael. "The Performance of the Wooden Printing Press." The Library Quarterly, vol. 42, no. 2, Apr. 1972, pp. 218-264., doi:10.1086/620028.
Popkin, Jeremy D. News and Politics in the Age of Revolution: Jean Luzac's Gazette De Leyde. Cornell University Press, 2015.
Porter, Dorothy B. "Early American Negro Writings: A Bibliographical Study." The Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America, vol. 39, no. 3, 1945, pp. 192-268., doi:10.1086/pbsa.39.3.24298648.
Postman, Neil. Amusing Ourselves to Death. Penguin, 2005.
Postman, Neil. The Disappearance of Childhood. Vintage Books, 1994.
Pressman, Jessica. Bookishness: Loving Books in a Digital Age. Columbia University Press, 2020.
Price, Leah. What We Talk about When We Talk about Books: The History and Future of Reading. Basic Books, 2019.
Puterbaugh, Joseph. " 'Truth Hath the Victory': Dialogue and Disputation in John Foxe's Actes and Monuments." Printed Voices: The Renaissance Culture of Dialogue, edited by Dorothea Heitsch and Jean-François Vallée. University of Toronto Press, 2004.
Rambaran-Olm, Mary. "Sounds About White." Review on Medium: https://mrambaranolm.medium.com/sounds-about-white-333d0c0fd201.
Raven, James. The Business of Books: Booksellers and the English Book Trade, 1450-1850. Yale University Press, 2007.
Raven, James. "Why Ephemera Were Not Ephemeral: The Effectiveness of Innovative Print in the Eighteenth Century." The Yearbook of English Studies, vol. 45, 2015, pp. 56-73., doi:10.5699/yearenglstud.45.2015.0056.
Reed, Talbot Baines. A History of the Old English Foundries: With Notes, Historical and Bibliographical, on the Rise and Progress of English Typography. Elliot Stock, 1887.
Reinders, Michel. Printed Pandemonium: Popular Print and Politics in the Netherlands 1650-72. Brill, 2013.
Rembar, Charles. "Charles Rembar." Censorship: For and Against, edited by Harold H. Hart, Hart, 1971, pp. 198-227.
The Report of the Commission on Obscenity and Pornography. U.S. Government Printing Office, 1970.
Reston, James. Galileo: A Life. Beard Books, 2000.
Richardson, Brian. "The Debates on Printing in Renaissance Italy." La Bibliofilía, vol. 100, no. 2/3, 1998, pp. 135-155.
Richardson, Samuel. Richardson's Moral Sentiments. Edited by Cassidy Holahan, https://www.cassidyholahan.com/moralsentiments/.
Rigolot, François. "Problematizing Renaissance Exemplarity: The Inward Turn of Dialogue from Petrarch to Montaigne." Printed Voices: The Renaissance Culture of Dialogue, edited by Dorothea B. Heitsch and Vallée Jean-François, University of Toronto Press, 2004, pp. 3-24.
Roberts, Jessica. "Radical Contagion and Healthy Literature in Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine." Literature and Medicine, vol. 34, no. 2, 2016, pp. 418-439., doi:10.1353/lm.2016.0020.
Robertson, Ritchie. The Enlightenment: The Pursuit of Happiness, 1680-1790. Allen Lane, 2020.
Robinson, Edward Forbes. The Early History of Coffee Houses in England: With Some Account of the First Use of Coffee and a Bibliography of the Subject. Kegan Paul, Trench, Trübner & Co., 1893. Read at https://books.google.com.
Rojas, Hernando, et al. "For The Good Of Others: Censorship and The Third-Person Effect." International Journal of Public Opinion Research, vol. 8, no. 2, 1996, pp. 163-186., doi:10.1093/ijpor/8.2.163.
Romano, Frank J. History of the Linotype Company. RIT Press, 2014.
Ronfeldt, David. "Tribes, Institutions, Markets, Networks: A Framework About Societal Evolution." RAND Corporation, 1996, https://www.rand.org/pubs/papers/P7967.html.
Rose, Mark. "The Public Sphere and the Emergence of Copyright: Areopagitica, the Stationers' Company, and the Statute of Anne." Privilege and Property: Essays on the History of Copyright, edited by Ronan Deazley et al., Open Book Publishers, 2010, pp. 67-88.
Rosen, Jay. "The View from Nowhere." PressThink, 18 Sept. 2003, archive.pressthink.org/2003/09/18/jennings.html.
Rosen, Jay. "We'll Have That Conversation' Journalism and Democracy in the Thought of James W. Carey." James Carey: A Critical Reader, edited by Catherine A. Warren and Eve Stryker. Munson, University of Minnesota Press, 1997, pp. 191-206.
Rosen, Jay. What Are Journalists for? Princeton University Press, 1999.
Rosenberg, Alex. How History Gets Things Wrong: The Neuroscience of Our Addiction to Stories. The MIT Press, 2018.
Rosenberg, Bernard. "Mass Culture in America." Mass Culture. The Popular Arts in America, edited by Bernard Rosenberg and David Manning White, The Free Press and The Falcon's Wing Press, 1957, pp. 3-12.
Rosenberg, Bernard. "Mass Culture Revisited I." Mass Culture Revisited, edited by Bernard Rosenberg and David Manning White, Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1971, pp. 3-12.
Ross, Lee. "From the Fundamental Attribution Error to the Truly Fundamental Attribution Error and Beyond: My Research Journey." Perspectives on Psychological Science, vol. 13, no. 6, 2018, pp. 750-769., doi:10.1177/1745691618769855.
Rubery, Matthew. "Canned Literature: The Book after Edison." Book History, vol. 16, no. 1, 2013, pp. 215-245., doi:10.1353/bh.2013.0012.
Ruppel, Aloys. Johannes Gutenberg Sein Leben Und Sein Werk. Verlag Gebr. Mann, 1947.
Saenger, Paul. Space Between Words: The Origins of Silent Reading. Stanford University Press, 1997.
Salwen, Michael B., and Michel Dupagne. "The Third-Person Effect: Perceptions of the Media's Influence and Immoral Consequences." Communication Research, vol. 26, no. 5, Oct. 1999, pp. 523-549., doi:10.1177/009365099026005001.
Sangster, Matthew. "Living as an Author in the Romantic Period: Remuneration, Recognition and Self-Fashioning." University of London, 2012.
Sarton, George. The Appreciation of Ancient and Medieval Science during the Renaissance (1450-1600). University of Pennsylvania Press, 1955.
Sauerberg, Lars Ole. "The Encyclopedia and the Gutenberg Parenthesis." Media in Transition 6: MIT, Apr. 2009, doi:http://web.mit.edu/comm-forum/legacy/mit6/papers/sauerberg.pdf.
Sauerberg, Lars Ole. "The Gutenberg Parenthesis - Print, Book and Cognition." Orbis Litterarum, vol. 64, no. 2, 2009, pp. 79-80., doi:10.1111/j.1600-0730.2009.00962.x.
Sauers, Sara T. "MacKellar, Smiths and Jordan, Typographic Tastemakers of the Nineteenth Century." The Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America, vol. 104, no. 1, 2010, pp. 115-116.
Saunders, Joseph. " 'All Her Copies': The Will of Anne Boler as Evidence for Her Career as a Stationer." The Social History Society, 20 July 2020, https://socialhistory.org.uk/shs_exchange/all-her-copies/.
Sawyer, Daniel. "Page Numbers, Signatures, and Catchwords." Book Parts, edited by Dennis Duncan and Adam Smyth, Oxford University Press, 2019, pp. 137-150.
Schmidt, Jörg. "Rezeptionsgeschichte Der Festgesänge Zu Den Mainzer Gutenbergfeiern Im 19. Jahrhundert." Gutenberg Jahrbuch, 2000, pp. 196-230.
Schobesberger, Nikolaus, Arblaster, Paul, Infelise, Mario, Belo, André, Moxham, Noah, Espejo, Carmen, Raymond, Joad. "European Postal Networks." News Networks in Early Modern Europe, edited by Joad Raymond and Noah Moxham, Brill, 2016, pp. 19-63.
Schudson, Michael. "The Public, the Media and the Limits of Democracy: Re-Examining the Lippmann-Dewey 'Debate'." ABC Religion and Ethics, 20 June 2019, https://www.abc.net.au/religion/public-media-and-limits-of-democracy-the-lippmann-dewey-debate/11228168.
Schwab, Richard N. "Some Signs of Stereotyping of the Yale Vellum Copy of the Mainz Catholicon." The Yale University Library Gazette, vol. 63, no. 1/2, Oct. 1988, pp. 8-13.
Schwab, Richard N., Cahill, Thomas A., Kusko, Bruce H., Wick, Daniel L. "Cyclotron Analysis of the Ink in the 42-Line Bible." The Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America, vol. 77, no. 3, 1983, pp. 285-315., doi:10.1086/pbsa.77.3.24302918.
Schwab, Richard N., Thomas A. Cahill, Robert A. Eldred, Bruce H. Kusko, Daniel L. Wick. "New Evidence on the Printing of the Gutenberg Bible: The Inks in the Doheny Copy." The Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America, vol. 79, no. 3, 1985, pp. 375-410., doi:10.1086/pbsa.79.3.24303664.
Senefelder, Alois. The Invention of Lithography. Translated by J. W. Muller, The Fuchs & Lang Manufacturing Company, 1911.
Sewald, Ronda L. "Forced Listening: The Contested Use of Loudspeakers for Commercial and Political Messages in the Public Soundscape." American Quarterly, vol. 63, no. 3, Sept. 2011, pp. 761-780., doi:10.1353/aq.2011.0041.
Shaaber, Matthias A. Some Forerunners of the Newspaper in England, 1476-1622. University of Pennsylvania Press, 1929.
Shaw, Paul. "Lead Soldiers." Print Magazine, vol. 52, no. 4, 1998, p. 96.
Shaw, Paul. The Eternal Letter: Two Millennia of the Classical Roman Capital. The MIT Press, 2015.
Shepard, Leslie. The Broadside Ballad: A Study in Origins and Meaning. Herberg Jenkins, 1962.
Sher, Richard B. The Enlightenment and the Book: Scottish Authors & Their Publishers in Eighteenth-Century Britain, Ireland, & America. University of Chicago Press, 2006.
Shils, Edward. The Constitution of Society. University of Chicago Press, 1982.
Shirky, Clay. Here Comes Everybody: The Power of Organizing Without Organizations. Penguin, 2009.
Shuger, Debora. Censorship and Cultural Sensibility: The Regulation of Language in Tudor-Stuart England. University of Pennsylvania Press, 2006.
Skjönsberg, Max. "David Hume and 'Of the Liberty of the Press' (1741) in Its Original Contexts." Freedom of Speech, 1500-1850, edited by Robert G. Ingram et al., Manchester University Press, 2020, pp. 171-191.
Slauter, Will. Who Owns the News?: A History of Copyright. Stanford University Press, 2019.
Smeijers, Fred. Counterpunch: Making Type in the Sixteenth Century, Designing Typefaces Now. Hyphen Press, 2011.
Smith, Margaret M. "Printed Foliation: Forerunner to Printed Page-Numbers?" Gutenberg-Jahrbuch, vol. 63, 1988, pp. 54-70.
Smith, Margaret M. "The End-Title, the Early Title-Page and the Wrapper: Their Interconnections." Transactions of the Cambridge Bibliographical Society, vol. 11, no. 2, 1997, pp. 95-111.
Smith, Margaret M. The Title-page, Its Early Development, 1460-1510. British Library, 2000.
Smyth, Adam, and Dennis Duncan. "Indexes." Book Parts, edited by Dennis Duncan, Oxford University Press, 2019, pp. 265-274.
Spellman, Charles G. "The Black Press: Setting the Political Agenda During World War II." Negro History Bulletin, vol. 51/57, no. 1/12, December 1993, pp. 38-42.
St. Clair, William. "Metaphors of Intellectual Property." Privilege and Property: Essays on the History of Copyright, edited by Lionel Bently et al., Open Book Publishers, 2010, pp. 369-395.
Stanhope, Charles Mahon Earl of. Substance of Earl Stanhope's Speech. Printed for J. Burks, J. Smith, T. Spence, 1795.
Starkman, Dean. " 'The Future Is Medieval'." Columbia Journalism Review, 7 June 2013, https://archives.cjr.org/the_audit/the_future_is_medieval.php.
Starr, Paul. The Creation of the Media: Political Origins of Modern Communications. Basic Books, 2004.
Steinberg, S.H. Five Hundred Years of Printing. Edited by John Trevitt, British Library & Oak Knoll Press, 1996.
Steinberg, S.H. Five Hundred Years of Printing. Penguin Books, 1955.
Steiner, George. "The Future of the Book: Classic Culture and Post-Culture." The Times Literary Supplement, 9 Oct. 1970.
The Story of Paper-Making: An Account of Paper-Making from Its Earliest Known Record down to the Present Time. J. W. Butler Paper Company, 1901.
Suarez, Michael Felix., and H.R. Woudhuysen. The Book: A Global History. Oxford University Press, 2013.
Surowiecki, James. The Wisdom of Crowds. Anchor, 2005.
Swenson, Astrid. The Rise of Heritage: Preserving the Past in France, Germany and England, 1789-1914. Cambridge University Press, 2015.
Taylor, Jordan E. "Enquire of the Printer: Newspaper Advertising and the Moral Economy of the North American Slave Trade, 1704-1807." Early American Studies: An Interdisciplinary Journal, vol. 18, no. 3, 2020, pp. 287-323., doi:10.1353/eam.2020.0008.
Terdiman, Richard. Discourse/Counter-Discourse: The Theory and Practice of Symbolic Resistance in Nineteenth-Century France. Cornell University Press, 1990.
Tetzel, Johann. Johann Tetzel's Rebuttal against Luther's Sermon on Indulgences and Grace. Translated by Dewey Weiss Kramer, Pitts Theology Library, 2012.
Thomas, Isaiah. The History of Printing in America: With a Biography of Printers, and an Account of Newspapers. Burt Franklin, 1874.
Towles, Amor. A Gentleman in Moscow. Viking, 2016.
Towsey, Mark R.M. Reading the Scottish Enlightenment: Books and Their Readers in Provincial Scotland, 1750-1820. Brill, 2010.
Trettien, Whitney. "Title Pages." Book Parts, edited by Dennis Duncan and Adam Smyth, Oxford University Press, 2019, pp. 41-49.
Trithemius, Johannes. "Johannes Trithemius: From In Praise of Scribes (De Laude Scriptorum)." Writing Material: Readings from Plato to the Digital Age, edited by Evelyn B. Tribble and Anne Trubek, Longman, 2003, pp. 469-475.
Tschichold, Jan. "Prophet or Propagator." Print Magazine, 2016, pp. 33-35.
Tschichold, Jan. The Form of the Book: Selected Essays on Questions of Book Design & Typography. Hartley & Marks, 1991.
Turner, Fred. "Where the Counterculture Met the New Economy: The WELL and the Origins of Virtual Community." Technology and Culture, July 2005, pp. 485-512.
Twain, Mark. "The Work of Gutenberg." Hartford Daily Courant, 27 June 1900.
Tworek, Heidi J.S. News from Germany: The Competition to Control World Communications, 1900-1945. Harvard University Press, 2019.
"The Type-Mold." The American Bookmaker, Sept. 1885, pp. 77-78.
Updike, Daniel Berkeley. Printing Types: Their History, Forms and Use. Vol. 1, Harvard University Press, 1951.
Updike, Daniel Berkeley. Printing Types: Their History, Forms and Use. Vol. 2, Harvard University Press, 1966.
Updike, John. "The End of Authorship." The New York Times, 25 June 2006, https://www.nytimes.com/2006/06/25/books/review/25updike.html.
Uzanne, Octave. "The End of Books." Scribner's Magazine Illustrated, 1894, pp. 221-231.
Vaidhyanathan, Siva. Antisocial Media: How Facebook Disconnects Us and Undermines Democracy. Oxford University Press, 2021.
Vallée, Jean-François. "The Fellowship of the Book: Printed Voices and Written Friendships in More's Utopia." Printed Voices: The Renaissance Culture of Dialogue, edited by Dorothea Heitsch and Jean-François Vallée, University of Toronto Press, 2004, pp. 42-62.
Volkmar, Christoph. "Turning Luther's Weapon's against Him: The Birth of Catholic Propaganda in Saxony in the 1520s." The Book Triumphant: Print in Transition in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries, edited by Malcolm Walsby and Graeme Kemp, Brill, 2011, pp. 115-129.
Wahrman, Dror. Mr. Collier's Letter Racks: A Tale of Art & Illusion at the Threshold of the Modern Information Age. Oxford University Press, 2012.
Walter, E.V. "Mass Society: The Late States of an Idea." Social Research 31, no. 4 (1964), pp. 391-410. https://www.jstor.org/stable/40969751.
Warde, Beatrice, writing as Paul Beaujon. "The 'Garamond' Types: Sixteenth & Seventeenth Century Sources Considered." Fleuron Anthology, edited by Francis Meynell and Herbert Simon, Ernest Benn Limited and University of Toronto Press, 1973, pp. 181-213.
Warfield, Abaigéal. "Witchcraft Illustrated: The Crime of Witchcraft in Early Modern German News Broadsheets." Broadsheets: Single-Sheet Publishing in the First Age of Print, edited by Andrew Pettegree, Brill, 2017, pp. 459-487.
Warner, Michael. Publics and Counterpublics. Zone Books, 2002.
Warner, William B. "Truth and Trust and the Eighteenth-Century Anglophone Newspaper." Travelling Chronicles: News and Newspapers from the Early Modern Period to the Eighteenth Century, edited by Paul Goring et al., Brill, 2018, pp. 27-48.
Warnock, John E. "Simple Ideas That Changed Printing and Publishing." Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, vol. 156, no. 4, Dec. 2012, pp. 363-378., https://www.jstor.org/stable/23558230.
Watson, Cecelia. Semicolon: The Past, Present, and Future of a Misunderstood Mark. Ecco, 2019.
Weber, Harold. Paper Bullets: Print and Kingship under Charles II. M. ed., University Press of Kentucky, 1996.
Weber, Johannes. "Strassburg, 1605: The Origins of the Newspaper in Europe." German History, vol. 24, no. 3, 2006, pp. 387-412., doi:10.1191/0266355406gh380oa.
Wedgwood, C.V. The Thirty Years War. Pimlico, 1992.
Weel, Adriaan van der. Changing Our Textual Minds: Towards a Digital Order of Knowledge. Manchester University Press, 2011.
Weinberger, David. Everyday Chaos: Technology, Complexity, and How We're Thriving in a New World of Possibility. Harvard Business Review, 2019.
Weinberger, David. "Pointing at the Wrong Villain: Cass Sunstein and Echo Chambers." Los Angeles Review of Books, 20 July 2017, https://lareviewofbooks.org/article/pointing-at-the-wrong-villain-cass-sunstein-and-echo-chambers/.
Weinberger, David. Too Big to Know: Rethinking Knowledge Now That the Facts Aren't the Facts, Experts Are Everywhere, and the Smartest Person in the Room Is the Room. Basic Books, 2014.
Weiss, David Loeb, director. Farewell Etaoin Shrdlu. The End of an Era: A Short Film About The Last Day of Hot Metal Typesetting at The New York Times (1978), The New York Times, 25 June 2020, https://www.openculture.com/2020/06/the-last-day-of-hot-metal-typesetting-at-the-new-york-times.html.
Weiss-Blatt, Nirit. The Techlash and Tech Crisis Communication. Emerald, 2021.
Wessler, Hartmut. Habermas and the Media. Polity Press, 2018.
White, Eric Marshall. Editio princeps: a History of the Gutenberg Bible. Harvey Miller Publishers, an Imprint of Brepols Publishers, 2017.
Wilkes, John. "The North Briton No.1-46." HathiTrust, 1762, https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=uc1.31970008271303&view=1up&seq=11.
Williams, Daniel. "The Marketplace of Rationalizations." Economics and Philosophy, 2022, pp. 1-25. doi:10.1017/S0266267121000389.
Williams, Raymond. Culture and Society: 1780-1950. Columbia University Press, 1983.
Williams, Talcott. The Newspaperman. Charles Scribner's Sons, 1922.
Wilson, Bronwen, and Paul Yachnin. "Hamlet and the Social Thing in Early Modern England." Making Publics in Early Modern Europe: People, Things, Forms of Knowledge, edited by Paul Edward Yachnin, Routledge, 2011, pp. 82-95.
Wilson, Bronwen, and Paul Yachnin. Making Publics in Early Modern Europe: People, Things, Forms of Knowledge. Routledge, 2011.
Wilson-Lee, Edward. The Catalogue of Shipwrecked Books: Christopher Columbus, His Son, and the Quest to Build the World's Greatest Library. Scribner, 2020.
Woolf, Leonard. The Journey Not the Arrival Matters: an Autobiography of the Years 1939 to 1969. A Harvest Book, 1969.
Wright, Alex. Cataloging the World: Paul Otlet and the Birth of the Information Age. Oxford University Press, 2014.
Wroth, Lawrence C. The Colonial Printing Press: A Chapter from the Colonial Printer. Southworth-Anthoensen Press, 1938.
Wu, Tim. "Is the First Amendment Obsolete?" Knight First Amendment Institute, Columbia University, 1 Sept. 2017, https://knightcolumbia.org/content/tim-wu-first-amendment-obsolete.
Yachnin, Paul, and Marlene Eberhart. "Introduction." Forms of Association: Making Publics in Early Modern Europe, University of Massachusetts Press, 2015, pp. 1-16.
Yankelovich, Daniel, and David Meer. "Rediscovering Market Segmentation." Harvard Business Review, Feb. 2006, pp. 122-131.
Yankelovich, Daniel. "New Criteria for Market Segmentation." Harvard Business Review, Mar. 1964.
Yoran, Hanan. Between Utopia and Dystopia: Erasmus, Thomas More, and the Humanist Republic of Letters. Lexington Books, 2011.
Yoran, Hanan. "More's Utopia and Erasmus' No-Place." English Literary Renaissance, vol. 35, no. 1, 2005, pp. 3-30., doi:10.1111/j.1475-6757.2005.00050.x.
Zaid, Gabriel. So Many Books: Reading and Publishing in an Age of Abundance; Trans. by Natasha Wimmer. Paul Dry Books, 2003.
Zall, P.M. "The Cool World of Samuel Taylor Coleridge: Earl Stanhope, People's Friend." The Wordsworth Circle, vol. 11, no. 2, 1980, pp. 115-118., doi:10.1086/twc24041219.
Zhao, Xiaoquan, and Xiaomei Cai. "From Self-Enhancement to Supporting Censorship: The Third-Person Effect Process in the Case of Internet Pornography." Mass Communication and Society, vol. 11, no. 4, 2008, pp. 437-462., doi:10.1080/15205430802071258.
Zolli, Daniel M., and Christopher Brown. "Bell on Trial: The Struggle for Sound after Savonarola." Renaissance Quarterly, vol. 72, no. 1, 2019, pp. 54-96., doi:10.1017/rqx.2018.6.
Zweig, Stefan. Montaigne. Translated by Will Stone, Pushkin, 2015.







INDEX
abundance, sense of, here
Addison, Joseph, here, here, here
Adolph II of Nassau, here
Adorno, Theodor, here
Advance Publications, here
advertising, here, here
Agent of Change: Print Culture Studies after Elizabeth Eisenstein (Johns), here
Agnew, Spiro, here
Agüera y Arcas, Blaise, here
Albrecht, archbishop of Magdeburg, here
Alcuin of York, here
Aldine Academy, here
Alexander VI, Pope, here
algorithms, here
Allen, Douglas, here
Allport, Floyd, here
Alternative für Deutschland, here
Amazon, here
The American Bookmaker, here
American Historical Review, here
Amman, Jost, here
Amsterdam, here, here
amusement, here
Andalusia, here
Anderson, Benedict, here, here, here, here
Antwerp, here, here
Arabic, here
Arendt, Hannah, here, here, here
aristocracy, the, here
Aristotle, here
artificial intelligence, here
Ashton, Susanna, here
Association of Internet Researchers, here
Astronomical Calendar, 1448, here
Atkyns, Richard, here
audience, here
audiobooks, here
Augustine, St., here, here, here
authority, here, here, here
authors, here, here
authorship, here, here
automation, here, here
avvisi, here

Bade, Josse, here
Bailey, Moya, here
Bainham, James, here
Bakewell, Sarah, here
Baldwin, Peter, here
Barker, Sheila, here
Barlow, Abigail, here
Barthes, Roland, here
Baskerville, John, here
Bauhaus, the, here
Baynes, Ken, here
Bear, Emily, here
Belo, André, here
Benton, Josiah Henry, here, here
Bernays, Edward, here
Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, here
Berners-Lee, Tim, here, here
Bi Sheng, here
Bible, the, here, here
bibliography, here
Bill of Rights, here
Birkerts, Sven, here
Black Americans, role of, here
Black Death, here
Black space, here
Black Twitter, here, here
#BlackLivesMatter, here, here
Blair, Ann, here
blockchain, here
blogs, blogging and bloggers, here, here
blood libel, here
Blount, Edward, here, here
Bluesky, here
Bodley, Sir Thomas, here
Bodoni, Giambattista, here
Bogost, Ian, here
Boissannade, Prosper, here
Bomberg, Daniel, here
book history
Anglo-Saxon school, here, here, here
discipline established, here, here
French school, here, here, here
book prices, here
Book Publishers Research Institute, here
books, here
death of, here, here
definition, here
first known printed, here
form, here
impact on society, here
love of, here, here
meanings, here
booksellers, here
Børch, Marianne, here, here
Bordeaux, here
Bormann, Martin, here
Bösch, Frank, here
Boswell, James, here
Bowles, J.M., here
boyd, danah, here
Bragg, Melvyn, here
Brandeis, Louis, here, here
Brann, Noel, here
Brenner, Robert, here
Breydenbach, Bernhard von, here
Brito, Jean, here
broadsides, here, here
Brock, André, Jr., here, here, here
Brooks, Joanna, here
Brown, Christopher, here
Bruni, Leonardo, here
Bruns, Axel, here
Burckhardt, Jacob, here
bureaucracies, here
business model, here, here
Buster, Douglas, here, here
Bute, John Stuart, third earl of, here

Cai Lun, here
calendars, here
Calhoun, Craig, here
Campbell, John, here, here
capital, here
Carey, James, here, here, here, here, here, here
Carey, John, here, here
Carlson, Chester, here
Carolus, Johann, here, here
Carrière, Jean-Claude, here, here
Cash, Arthur, here, here
Caslon, William, here
Castaldi, Pamfilo, here
Catholicon, the, here, here
Caxton, William, here, here, here
censorship, here, here, here, here, here
believed positive role, here
by business model, here
historical development, here
obscenity, here
and paternalism, here
power dynamic, here
social-distance corollary, here
third-person effect, here, here
Censorship: For and Against, here
centralization, here
Cervantes, Miguel de, here, here, here, here, here, here
Chambers, Ephraim, here
Charlemagne, here
Charles I, King, here, here
Charles II, King, here
Charles V, Emperor, here
Chartier, Roger, here, here, here, here
Chicago Tribune, here
China, here, here, here
Chordas, Nina, here, here
Christie, Alix, here
chronology, here
Citizens for Decent Literature, here
civil society, here
civility, here
Clanchy, M.T., here, here, here, here
Clark, Meredith, here
Clephane, James, here
Coase, Ronald, here
Cobden-Sanderson, Thomas, here
Cochran, Julie Lawrence, here
code-switching, here
codexes, here
Coehlo, Paulo, here
coffeehouses, here
collective credibility, here
Cologne, here, here
Colón, Hernando, here
colophons, here
color printing, here
comic books, here
commercialization, here
commodification, here
of words, here
Commonwealth of Learning, here
communication, here
ritual view of, here
community, sense of, here
compendia, here
compositing, here
compositors, here
CompuServe, here
computers, here, here, here
concordances, here
Condell, Henry, here
conformity, here
connection, here
conservatism, here
conspiracy theories, here
consumerism, here
content, here
birth of concept, here
commodification, here
ownership of, here
conversation, public, here, here
coffeehouses, here
control, here
death of, here
dialogue, here
essays, here
inclusive, here, here
interactive system, here
lessons of, here
letter-writing, here
listening, here
manipulation, here
and the novel, here
ownership, here
primacy of, here
professionalization, here
quality, here
recovery, here
relearning interaction, here
and republics, here
resistance to, here
social media, here
women and, here
written dialogue, here, here
Coover, Robert, here
copyright, here, here, here, here, here, here
Cornish, Samuel, here
Coster, Laurens Janszoon, here
Council of Basel, here
Council of Trent, here
counterpublics, here, here
counterspeech doctrine, here
COVID pandemic, here
Cowan, Brian, here, here, here, here
Cranach, Lucas, here, here
creative support, here
creativity, here, here, here
credibility, here
creditright, here
Crossman, Ashley, here
crowds, wisdom of, here
Cuesta, Juan de la, here
culture, here, here, here
culture industry, here
Cyberspace Renaissance, here

Dadaism, here
Dane, Joseph, here, here, here, here, here
Dark Ages, the, here
Darnton, Robert, here, here, here
data storage, here
Davis, Kathleen, here
Davison, W. Phillips, here
de Strata, Filippo, here, here
De Tocqueville, Alexis, here
Deacon, Richard, here
Defoe, Daniel, here
#DefundthePolice, here
deliberation, here
democracy, here, here, here, here
Dennie, Joseph, here
der Weduwen, Andrew, here, here
desacralization, here
determinism, here
Dewar, James, here, here
Dewey, John, here, here, here, here
Dewey Decimal System, here
dialects, here, here
dialogue, value of, here
Dickens, Charles, here
Diderot, here, here
Die neue Typographie (The New Typography) (Tschichold), here
Die Zeit, here
digital abundance, here
digital culture, here
disinformation, here, here
diversity, here
Donaldson, Alexander and John, here
Donatus Ars Grammatica, here
Donatus-Kalendar font, here
doomscrolling here
Dorsey, Jack, here
double consciousness, here
Douglass, Frederick, here, here
Doves Press Bible, here
dramatic publications, here, here
Dritzehn, Andreas, here
Dritzehn, Jörg, here
Dryden, John, here
Du Bois, W.E.B., here
Duggan, Mary Kay, here
Duncan, Dennis, here, here
Dunlap, John, here
Dunton, John, here
Dürer, Albrecht, here

East Germany, here
echo chambers, here, here
Eco, Umberto, here, here, here
economic foundation, here
economic model, here
economic theories, here
Economist, The, here
Edison, Thomas, here
Editor and Publisher, here, here
education, here, here, here, here
Egginton, William, here, here
Eisenstein, Elizabeth, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
electricity, here, here, here
Eliot, T.S., here
Elizabeth I, Queen, here
Ellis, Aytoun, here, here
Ellis, Markman, here
Emerson, Ralph Waldo, here, here
Empell, Hans-Michael, here
encyclopedias, here
endings, here
England
censorship, here
copyright laws, here, here, here
newspapers, here, here
spread of printing to, here
engraving, here, here
Enlightenment, the, here, here
entertainment, here, here
ephemera, here, here
Epicurious web site, here
epistemological warfare, here
equality, here
Erasmus, Desiderius, here, here, here, here, here, here
On Free Will, here
In Praise of Folly, here, here, here
Erne, Lukas, here, here
essays, here, here, here, here
Estienne, Robert, here
etchings, here
European Copyright Directive of 2019, here
European exceptionalism, here
experimentation, here
experts, here, here
extremists, here

Facebook, here, here, here, here, here
fact-checking, here
fake news, here, here, here
Falk, Seb, here
false news, here
fan-fiction, here
fantasy, here
Faulstich, Werner, here
Faustus, Dr., here
Febvre, Lucien, here, here, here, here
Feeney, Joan, here
Fenerty, Charles, here
Fichet, Guillaume, here
Fichtner, Ulrich, here
Fiedler, Leslie, here
Fielding, Henry, here
Fifth Lateran Council, here
filter bubbles, here, here
First Amendment doctrine, here, here, here
first known printed book, here
first-person effect, here
Fish, Stanley, here
Fontenai, Abbé de, here
fonts, here, here, here
forums, here
Foucault, Michel, here
Fourdrinier, Sealy and Henry, here
Fournier, Pierre Simon, here
Fox News, here
Fraktur, here
France, here, here, here, here
Franco-Prussian War, here
Franklin, Benjamin, here, here, here, here, here, here
Franklin, James, here
Fraser, Nancy, here, here, here
freedom of expression, here, here. see also censorship
freedom of speech, here, here. see also censorship
Freelon, Deen, here
French Revolution, here, here, here, here, here
frenemies, here
Fried, Johannes, here
Froben, Johann, here
Fuhrmann, Otto, here, here
Fukuyama, Francis, here
Fulton, Robert, here
fundamental attribution error, here
Füssel, Stephan, here, here, here
Fust, Johannes, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here

Gaines, Ervin, here
Galileo, here
Gallup, George, here
GameStop, here
Garamond, Claude, here
Garfield, Simon, here, here
Gart der Gesundheit (Garden of Health), here
Gates, Henry Louis, here
Ged, William, here
Gelthus, Adam, here
Gensfleisch, Friele, here
Gensfleisch, Johannes, here
George III, King, here
Germany, here, here, here, here
Giesebrecht, Ludwig, here
Gill, Eric, here, here
Giner, Salvador, here
Glaude, Eddie, Jr., here
global village, here
globalization, here
Goebbels, Joseph, here, here
Google, here, here, here
Gordon, W. Terrence, here
Grafton, Andrew, here
Great Depression, here
Green, Jonathon, here
Green, Robert, here
Greenwald, Anthony, here
Greflinger, Georg, here
Griffo, Francesco, here
Grimes, William, here
Guardian, The, here
Guillard, Charlotte, here
Gutenberg, Johannes, here, here, here, here
achievement, here, here
annuities, here
appearance, here
badge business, here
after the Bible, here
Bible project, here
capital, here
death of, here, here
education, here
ejected from Mainz, here
family background, here
Fust sues, here
legend, here
memorials, here
name, here
opens Parenthesis, here
print shop, here
printing after the Bible, here
printing business, here
status, here
Gutenberg Bible, here
B42, here, here
beauty, here
chapter headings, here
compositing, here
cost, here
font, here
hyphens, here
ink, here
page decorations, here
paper, here
press run, here
printing time, here
profit, here
project, here
size, here
Tabula Rubricarum, here
vellum, here
Gutenberg Foundation, here
Gutenberg Museum, Mainz, here, here
Gutenberg Oratorio, here
Gutenberg Parenthesis
closing of, here, here, here, here, here, here
enclosure of an exception, here
leaving, here
lessons of, here, here, here, here
moral of, here
opening, here, here
theory of, here
transition into, here
view of history, here

Habermas, Jürgen, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Hall, Matthew, here
Hamlet (Shakespeare), here
Hamling, William, here
Hansard, Thomas Curson, here, here, here, here
Harper's Weekly, here
Harris, Benjamin, here
hate, here
Hauck, Peter, here
Haveman, Heather, here
Hayes, Kevin, here, here
Hearst, William Randolph, here
Heilmann, Andreas, here
Heitsch, Dorothea, here
Helgerson, Richard, here
Hellinga, Lotte, here, here, here
Hellinga, W.G., here
Helmasperger, Ulrich, here
Heminges, John, here
Henry VIII, King, here, here
high art, here
Hill, Samantha Rose, here
Hillgärtner, Jan, here
Historic Book Odor Wheel, here
historical continuities, recognizing, here
history, lessons of, here, here
Hitler, Adolf, here, here
Holborn, Louise, here
Hone, John, here
Horkheimer, Max, here
hostage capital, here
hot news doctrine, here, here
hot type, here
Howe, Irving, here
Howsam, Leslie, here
Hughes, Everett, here
Hugo, Victor, here, here
The Hunchback of Notre Dam, here
Huizinga, Johan, here, here, here
human rights, here
humanism, here
Hume, David, here
Humery, Konrad, here
Hus, Jan, here
hyperlinks, here
hyphens, here
Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, here

Iberian Peninsula, spread of printing to, here
identity politics, here
illustrations, here, here, here
imagined communities, here
imposition, here
inclusivity, here, here
incunabula and the incunabular period, here
Index Librorum Prohibitorum (Index of Prohibited Books), here, here, here
indexes, here, here, here
individualism, here, here
individuality, here, here, here, here, here, here
indulgences, here, here
Industrial Revolution, here, here
industrialism, here
industrialization, here, here, here, here, here
information
distribution of, here
interactive system, here
ink, here, here, here
Innes, Harold, here
Innis, Harold, here
Innocent VII, Pope, here
innovation, here
institutions and institutional change, here, here, here, here, here
inventing new, here
organizing structures, here
regulation, here
securing, here
and societal evolution, here
intellectual property rights, here, here, here, here, here, here
International Journalism Festival, 2019, here
internet, the, here, here, here, here, here, here
address systems, here
birth of, here
Black space, here
business model, here, here
connections, here
content, here
and copyright, here
and disinformation, here
echo chambers, here
emancipation of the individual, here
freedoms, here
impact, here
and the mass, here
post-mass-media, here
potential, here
problems of, here
regulation, here
spread of, here
interpuncts, here
Irwin, Will, here
Isenburg, Diether von, here, here
Islam, here
isolation, here, here
italic typeface, here
Italy, here, here, here, here
Ivins, William, here

Jackaway, Gwenyth, here, here, here, here
Jackson, Sarah, here
Jacobson, Emily, here
Jaggard, William and Isaac, here
James, Elinor, here
Janssen, Frans, here
Jefferson, Thomas, here
Jenson, Nicolas, here, here, here
Johns, Adrian, here
Johnson, Henry, here
Johnson, Samuel, here, here, here, here, here
Jonghe, Adrien de, here
Jonson, Ben, here
journalism, here
journalistic objectivity, here
Junger, Sebastian, here

Kapr, Albert, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Keating, Charles Jr., here, here
Keating, Kenneth, here
Keimer, Samuel, here
Kelly, Kevin, here
Kemp, Earl, here
Kickstarter, here
King, Rachael Scarborough, here, here
King, Ross, here
King James Bible, here
Kirschenbaum, Matthew, here
Kirschenbaum, Valerie, here
Klein, Lawrence, here, here, here
knowledge, here
preservation of, here
Koberger, Anton, here
Koenig, Friedrich, here
Koops, Matthias, here
Korea, here, here
Kornhauser, William, here, here, here, here
Korzi, Michael, here
Kosseff, Jeff, here
Kramer, Dewey Weiss, here
Kubler, George, here
Künast, Hans-Jörg, here
Kurlansky, Mark, here

Langan, Tom, here
Langton, Stephen, here
language, here, here, here
Lasch, Christopher, here
Lawson, Alexander, here, here
Le Bon, Gustave, here
Lehmann-Haupt, Hellmut, here, here, here
Lelyveld, Arthur, here
Lemay, J.A. Leo, here
Lenard, Max, here
Leo X, Pope, here, here, here, here
Lerner, Max, here
L'Estrange, Roger, here, here, here
letters
long s, here
lowercase, here
round s, here
type-casting, here
letter-writing, here
liberalism, here
libraries, here, here
Lidsky, Lyrissa Barnett, here
Linotype, here, here
Lippmann, Walter, here, here
listening, here
literacy, here, here
literary prejudice, here
literary property, here
literature, here
lithography, here
Lloyd, Edward, here
Lloyd's List, here
Lloyd's Register, here
local, the, here
Locke, John, here
loneliness, here
long s, the, here
Louis XIV, king of France, here
Löwe, Carl, here
lowercase letters, here
Lowery, Wesley, here
Lowry, Martin, here, here
Luther, Martin, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Admonition to Peace, here
Against the Execrable Bull of the Antichrist, here
Against the Robbing and Murdering Hordes of Peasants, here
Ninety-five Theses, here
On the Bondage of the Will, here
publishing choices, here
Sermon on Indulgence and Grace, here, here
tone, here
Lutheranism, here
Lydgate, Barry, here, here
Lyell, Charles, here

Macaulay, Thomas Babington, here, here, here, here
McCarthy, Eugene, here
McCarthy, Isabel Feder, here
McCormick, Robert, here
McCrory, Donald, here
Macdonald, Dwight, here
McDowell, Paula, here
machine learning, here
McIlwain, Charlton, here, here
MacKellar, Thomas, here, here
McLuhan, Andrew, here
McLuhan, Marshall, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
McMurtrie, David, here
McMurtrie, Douglas, here
magazines, here
forerunners, here
Magno, Alessandro Marzo, here, here
Mainz, here, here, here, here, here, here
archbishops' war, here, here, here, here
Mainz Psalter, here
Making Publics Project, here
Malleus Maleficarum, here
Man, John, here, here, here
Manguel, Alberto, here
manipulation, here, here, here
Manutius, Aldus, here, here, here
Marco Polo, here
Marcus, Leah, here
marine chronometer, here
market research, here
Martin, Henri-Jean, here, here, here, here
Martin, Waldo, Jr., here
Marx, Karl, here
Marxism, here
Mary, Queen, here
mass, and the internet, the, here
mass, the, here
and culture, here
delusion of, here
facets, here
function, here
and market research, here
and mass media, here
nature of, here
political variants, here
power, here
segmentation, here
theory of, here
mass culture, here, here
mass market, here, here, here
mass media, here, here, here, here, here
mass participation, here
mass production, here
mass society, here
mass theory, here
Massing, Michael, here
master narrative, here
Matthews, John, here
Maximilian I, Emperor, here, here
mechanization, here, here, here
Media Ecology Association, here, here
media literacy, here
media mediators, here
memory, here
Mencken, H.L., here
Menschmedien, here
Mentelin, Johann, here, here
Menzies, Gavin, here
Mergenthaler, Ottmar, here
Messina, Chris, here
Meßrelationen, here
Mexico, here
Michelet, Jules, here
Middle Ages, here, here
Millanges, Simon, here
Milton, John, here, here
mind, theory of, here
Minnich, Nelson, here
misinformation, here, here
Mitchell, Arnold, here
Mitchell, John, here
moderators, here
modern age, the, here
Monfasani, John, here
Montaigne, Michel de, here, here, here, here, here
moral clarity, here
moral panics, here, here, here, here
Moran, James, here
More, Sir Thomas, here, here
Utopia, here, here
Morris, William, here
Morrison, James, here
movable type, here, here, here, here
credit for, here
invention of, here
Movement for Marginal Protection, here
Moxon, Joseph, here, here, here, here, here
mummies, burial shrouds stripped to make paper, here
Müntzer, Thomas, here
Murdoch, Rupert, here
Murrow, Edward R., here
Musk, Elon, here

Napoli, Philip, here
narrative, here, here
National Commission on Obscenity and Pornography, here, here
National Endowment for the Arts, here
nationalism, here
Nazi Germany, politicization of typography, here
Needham, Paul, here, here, here, here, here
Ness, University, here
Netherlands, the, here, here
neuroscience, here
new age, cusp of, here
new technology, fear of, here
New York Times Book Review, The, here
New York Times, The, here, here, here, here
Newcombe, G.M., here
Newhouse, Steven, here, here
news books, here, here
news ecosystem, here
news wire services, here
newspapers
authority, here
birth of, here
Black Americans and, here
broadsides, here
business model, here
and coffehouses, here
copyright, here
definition, here
first, here, here, here
influence, here, here
Petta, Massimo, here
preconditions for, here
precursors, here
role in the slave trade, here
spread of, here
status, here
news-singers, here
Nisbet, Robert, here
Niskanen Center, here
Nixon, Richard, here
Noble, John, here
noise, here
North, Roger, here
nostalgia, here
novel, the
birth of, here, here
and public conversation, here
Nuovo, Angela, here
Nuremberg Chronicle, here
Nymanover, Evert, here

objectivity, here, here
obscenity, here
O'Callaghan, Daniel, here
offset printing, here
Ong, Wang, here
oral cultures, here
O'Reilly, Tim, here
Ortega y Gasset, José, here, here
Ortelius, Abraham, here
Owen, Robert, here
ownership economy, here
Ozment, Kate, here

Page, Will, here
page numbering, here, here
Palmer, Ada, here
pamphlet novel, the, here
pamphlets, here
Pannartz, Arnold, here
paper
Gutenberg Bible, here
invention of, here, here
wood pulp, here
paper sizes, here
paper-making, here, here
parchment, here
Pariser, Eli, here
past, the, lessons of, here, here
paternalism, here
Patry, William, here
Patterson, Leo, here
Paul II, Pope, here
Pendergrast, Mark, here
Pepys, Samuel, here
Peregrinatio in Terram Sanctam (A Pilgrimage to the Holy Land), here
periodization, problem of, here
Perloff, Richard, here
permanence, here
Perotti, Niccolò, here
Petersen, Michael Bang, here
Petrarch, here, here
Petta, Massimo, here
Pettegree, Andrew, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Pettitt, Tom, here, here, here, here
Pfefferkorn, Johannes, here
Pfister, Albrecht, here, here
photocomposition, here, here
photography, here
Piper, Andrew, here, here
Pius II, Pope, here, here, here
Plantin, Christophe, here, here
Plastic.com, here
plays, here, here
Plomer, H.R., here
pluralistic society, here, here
politicization, of typography, here
Pope, Alexander, here, here
Popkin, Jeremy, here
populist mob, rise of, here
Pörksen, Bernhard, here
pornography, here, here
first printed, here
Portugal, spread of printing to, here
postal network, here
Postman, Neil, here, here, here, here
post-mass age, here, here
Postscript, here
precursors, here
press associations, here
press freedom, here
presses, here
Pressman, Jessica, here, here
presumptions, print, here
Price, Leah, here
print and printing
epoch of, here
evolution, here
history of, here
impact, here
origins, here
power, here
presumptions, here
scale of, here
spread of, here, here
transition to, here
unintended consequences, here
print 2.0, here
print culture, here, here, here, here, here
print-capitalism, here, here, here, here
printers, customers, here
printing press, here
emergence of, here
impact, here
mighty screw, here
the Stanhope press, here
steam power, here, here
printing process, here
complexity, here
compositing, here
first known description of, here
ink, here, here
letters, here
the press, here
type-casting, here
typesetting, here
privacy, here, here, here
propaganda, here
Prosper, Roger, here
public debate, here
public opinion, here
Public Opinion Quarterly, here
public sphere, here, here, here, here, here
Puritanism, here
Puterbaugh, Joseph, here

Qu'ran, here

racism, here, here
radio, competition from, here
Rae, Saul, here
railways, here
RAND Corporation, here
Ratatouille: The TikTok Musical, here
Raven, James, here, here, here
reading, here, here, here
corrupting influence of, here
private, here
reality TV, here
Reddit, here, here
Reformation, the, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Reinders, Michel, here
Relotius, Claas, here
Rembar, Charles, here, here
Rembrandt, here
Renaissance, the, here, here, here, here
Renaudot, Théophraste, here
repeatability, here
republics, and conversation, here
resetting, here
Reske, Christoph, here
Reuwich, Erhard, here
Rhau-Grunenberg, Johann, here, here
Richardson, Samuel, here, here
Riffe, Hans, here
Rigolot, François, here
Rini, Regina, here
Robert, Nicolas-Louis, here
Robles, Francisco de, here
Roman Church, here, here, here, here, here
Roman Empire, here, here
roman typeface, here
Romano, Frank, here
Rome, Ancient, here
Romeo and Juliet (Shakespeare), here
Ronfeldt, David, here
Roosevelt, Franklin D., here
Rose, Mark, here
Rosen, Jay, here, here
Rosenberg, Alex, here
Rosenberg, Bernard, here, here
Ross, Lee, here
round s, here
Routledge, George, here
royalties, here
Rubery, Matthew, here
Ruppel, Aloys, here, here, here
Russian Revolution, here
Russwurm, John B., here

Saenger, Paul, here, here
San Marco's bell, arrest of, here
Sangster, Matthew, here
Sarton, George, here, here
Saspach, Konrad, here
Saspach, Nicholas, here
Sauerberg, Lars Ole, here, here
Savonarola, Girolama, here
Scheurl, Conrad, here
Schmidt, Jörg, here
Schoeffer, Peter, here, here
Schöffer, Johann, here
Schöffer, Peter, here, here, here, here
Schöffer, Peter the younger, here
scholarship, here
Schott, Klaus, here
Schwab, Richard N., here
Scientific Revolution, here, here, here, here
Scottish Enlightenment, here
scribal culture, here, here
scribes, here, here, here, here, here
scriptura continua, here, here
scrolls, here
seals, here
secondary orality, here
self, sense of, here
self-publishing, here
semicolons, here
Senefelder, Alois, here
Shakespeare, William, here, here, here
Shils, Edward, here, here
Shirky, Clay, here
Sibylline Prophecy, here
silent majority, the, here
Silicon Valley, here
Sixtus IV, Pope, here
Skjönsberg, Max, here
Slauter, Will, here
slaves and slavery, here, here, here
Smith, Adam, here
Smith, Margaret, here, here
social media, here
Black space, here
moral panic, here
power, here
precedent in coffeehouses, here
social-distance corollary, here
societal evolution, here
Sonetti Lussuriosi, here
Sorbonne, the, here
Spain, spread of printing to, here
Spanó, Róbert Ragnar, here
Sparrow, Walter Shaw, here
Spectator, The, here, here, here, here
speech, freedom of, here
spelling, here
Speyer, Johann von, here
Spieringk, Nicolaus, here
Spotify, here
standardization, here, here
standards, here
Stanhope, Charles Mahon, third Earl of, here, here
Stanhope press, here
Stanwood, I. Augustus, here
Starr, Paul, here
Stationers' Company, here, here, here
Status Quo Warriors, here
Statute of Anne, here, here, here
steam power, here, here, here
steamships, here
Steele, Richard, here, here, here
Steinberg, S.H., here, here, here, here
Steiner, George, here
stereotyping, here, here, here
story and storytelling, here
Stover, J.W., here
Strahan, William, here
Strasbourg, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
subaltern counterpublics, here
Sullivan, Andrew, here
Sunstein, Cass, here
Surowiecki, James, here
Sweynheym, Conrad, here, here

Tatler, The, here, here, here
Taylor, Jordan, here
tech bust, 2000, here
technological determinism, here, here
telegraph, here, here
television, here, here, here
Tetzel, Johann, here, here
Thatcher, Margaret, here
third-person effect, here, here
Thirty Years' War, here, here, here, here
Thomas, Isaiah, here
TikTok, here
Tilghman, Benjamin Chew, here
The Times, here, here, here, here
Times Literary Supplement, here
title page, invention of, here
titles, here
Tonnac, Jean-Philippe de, here, here
totalitarianism, here
Transatlantic High-Level Working Group on Content Moderation Online and Freedom of Expression, here
transportation, here, here
Trettien, Whitney, here
Trithemius, Johannes, here
trolls, here, here, here
Trump, Donald, here, here, here, here, here
truth, here, here
Tschichold, Jan, here
Türkenkalendar, here
Twain, Mark, here, here, here, here
Twitter, here, here, here
Tyndale, William, here
type sizes, here
type-casting machinery, here
typefaces, here, here, here
typesetting, here, here
typographic extension, here
typographical fixity, here
typography, here, here, here, here

Udell, Rochelle, here
unintended consequences, here
United States of America
censorship, here
copyright laws, here, here
presidential election, 2016, here, here
Section, here, here
Universal Short Title Catalogue, University of St Andrews, here
University of St Andrews, Universal Short Title Catalogue, here
Updike, Daniel Berkeley, here, here
Updike, John, here
US Copyright Term Extension Act, here
Utopia (More), here, here
Uzanne, Octave, here

Vallée, Jean-François, here
van Berghen, Adriaen, here
Van der Mey, J., here
van der Weel, Adriaan, here
Vance Smith, D., here
vellum, here
Venice, here, here, here
voices, here
Volkmar, Christoph, here

Wahrman, Dror, here
Waldvogel, Procopius, here
Wales, Jimmy, here
Walter, E.V., here
Walter, John II, here
Wang Zhen, here
Warfield, Abaigéal, here
Warner, Michael, here
Washington Post, The, here
Watt, James, here
web 2.0, here
Webb, Diane, here
Webb, George, here
Weber, Harold, here
Weber, Johannes, here, here
Webster, Noah, here, here, here
Weinberger, David, here, here
Weiss-Blatt, Nirit, here
WELL bulletin board, here
Welles, Brooke Foucault, here
Wells, Ida B., here
Wesel, Johann Ruchrath von, here
Wessler, Hartmut, here
Western values, here
W.H. Smith, here
White, Eric Marshall, here
white power structure, here
white privilege, here
white supremacy, here, here
whiteness, here
Wieland, Christoph Martin, here
Wikipedia, here
Wilkes, John, here, here, here
Williams, Daniel, here
Williams, Raymond, here
Williams, Talcott, here
Williamson, Joseph, here
Wilson, Andrew, here
witchcraft, here
Wittenberg, here, here
women, here
moral degradation, here
and public conversation, here
role of, here
Wong, Yishan, here
Wood, Anthony, here
woodblock printing, here, here
woodcuts, here, here, here
Woolf, Leonard, here
word separation, here
Worde, Wynkyn de, here, here
word-of-mouth, here
words, commodification of, here
World Economic Forum, here, here
World War I, here, here
World War II, here
writing
circulation of, here
private, here
purpose of, here
spread of, here
Wroth, Lawrence, here
Wu, Tim, here, here

xersography, here

Yachnin, Paul, here
Yankelovich, Daniel, here
Yoran, Hanan, here
Young, P. Bernard, Jr., here

Zaid, Gabriel, here
Zall, P.M., here
Zolli, Daniel, here
Zuckerberg, Mark, here, here
Zuichemus, Viglius, here
Zweig, Stefan, here
Zwinger, Theodor, here
abundance, sense of, here
Addison, Joseph, here, here, here
Adolph II of Nassau, here
Adorno, Theodor, here
Advance Publications, here
advertising, here, here
Agent of Change: Print Culture Studies after Elizabeth Eisenstein (Johns), here
Agnew, Spiro, here
Agüera y Arcas, Blaise, here
Albrecht, archbishop of Magdeburg, here
Alcuin of York, here
Aldine Academy, here
Alexander VI, Pope, here
algorithms, here
Allen, Douglas, here
Allport, Floyd, here
Alternative für Deutschland, here
Amazon, here
The American Bookmaker, here
American Historical Review, here
Amman, Jost, here
Amsterdam, here, here
amusement, here
Andalusia, here
Anderson, Benedict, here, here, here, here
Antwerp, here, here
Arabic, here
Arendt, Hannah, here, here, here
aristocracy, the, here
Aristotle, here
artificial intelligence, here
Ashton, Susanna, here
Association of Internet Researchers, here
Astronomical Calendar, 1448, here
Atkyns, Richard, here
audience, here
audiobooks, here
Augustine, St., here, here, here
authority, here, here, here
authors, here, here
authorship, here, here
automation, here, here
avvisi, here

Bade, Josse, here
Bailey, Moya, here
Bainham, James, here
Bakewell, Sarah, here
Baldwin, Peter, here
Barker, Sheila, here
Barlow, Abigail, here
Barthes, Roland, here
Baskerville, John, here
Bauhaus, the, here
Baynes, Ken, here
Bear, Emily, here
Belo, André, here
Benton, Josiah Henry, here, here
Bernays, Edward, here
Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, here
Berners-Lee, Tim, here, here
Bi Sheng, here
Bible, the, here, here
bibliography, here
Bill of Rights, here
Birkerts, Sven, here
Black Americans, role of, here
Black Death, here
Black space, here
Black Twitter, here, here
#BlackLivesMatter, here, here
Blair, Ann, here
blockchain, here
blogs, blogging and bloggers, here, here
blood libel, here
Blount, Edward, here, here
Bluesky, here
Bodley, Sir Thomas, here
Bodoni, Giambattista, here
Bogost, Ian, here
Boissannade, Prosper, here
Bomberg, Daniel, here
book history
Anglo-Saxon school, here, here, here
discipline established, here, here
French school, here, here, here
book prices, here
Book Publishers Research Institute, here
books, here
death of, here, here
definition, here
first known printed, here
form, here
impact on society, here
love of, here, here
meanings, here
booksellers, here
Børch, Marianne, here, here
Bordeaux, here
Bormann, Martin, here
Bösch, Frank, here
Boswell, James, here
Bowles, J.M., here
boyd, danah, here
Bragg, Melvyn, here
Brandeis, Louis, here, here
Brann, Noel, here
Brenner, Robert, here
Breydenbach, Bernhard von, here
Brito, Jean, here
broadsides, here, here
Brock, André, Jr., here, here, here
Brooks, Joanna, here
Brown, Christopher, here
Bruni, Leonardo, here
Bruns, Axel, here
Burckhardt, Jacob, here
bureaucracies, here
business model, here, here
Buster, Douglas, here, here
Bute, John Stuart, third earl of, here

Cai Lun, here
calendars, here
Calhoun, Craig, here
Campbell, John, here, here
capital, here
Carey, James, here, here, here, here, here, here
Carey, John, here, here
Carlson, Chester, here
Carolus, Johann, here, here
Carrière, Jean-Claude, here, here
Cash, Arthur, here, here
Caslon, William, here
Castaldi, Pamfilo, here
Catholicon, the, here, here
Caxton, William, here, here, here
censorship, here, here, here, here, here
believed positive role, here
by business model, here
historical development, here
obscenity, here
and paternalism, here
power dynamic, here
social-distance corollary, here
third-person effect, here, here
Censorship: For and Against, here
centralization, here
Cervantes, Miguel de, here, here, here, here, here, here
Chambers, Ephraim, here
Charlemagne, here
Charles I, King, here, here
Charles II, King, here
Charles V, Emperor, here
Chartier, Roger, here, here, here, here
Chicago Tribune, here
China, here, here, here
Chordas, Nina, here, here
Christie, Alix, here
chronology, here
Citizens for Decent Literature, here
civil society, here
civility, here
Clanchy, M.T., here, here, here, here
Clark, Meredith, here
Clephane, James, here
Coase, Ronald, here
Cobden-Sanderson, Thomas, here
Cochran, Julie Lawrence, here
code-switching, here
codexes, here
Coehlo, Paulo, here
coffeehouses, here
collective credibility, here
Cologne, here, here
Colón, Hernando, here
colophons, here
color printing, here
comic books, here
commercialization, here
commodification, here
of words, here
Commonwealth of Learning, here
communication, here
ritual view of, here
community, sense of, here
compendia, here
compositing, here
compositors, here
CompuServe, here
computers, here, here, here
concordances, here
Condell, Henry, here
conformity, here
connection, here
conservatism, here
conspiracy theories, here
consumerism, here
content, here
birth of concept, here
commodification, here
ownership of, here
conversation, public, here, here
coffeehouses, here
control, here
death of, here
dialogue, here
essays, here
inclusive, here, here
interactive system, here
lessons of, here
letter-writing, here
listening, here
manipulation, here
and the novel, here
ownership, here
primacy of, here
professionalization, here
quality, here
recovery, here
relearning interaction, here
and republics, here
resistance to, here
social media, here
women and, here
written dialogue, here, here
Coover, Robert, here
copyright, here, here, here, here, here, here
Cornish, Samuel, here
Coster, Laurens Janszoon, here
Council of Basel, here
Council of Trent, here
counterpublics, here, here
counterspeech doctrine, here
COVID pandemic, here
Cowan, Brian, here, here, here, here
Cranach, Lucas, here, here
creative support, here
creativity, here, here, here
credibility, here
creditright, here
Crossman, Ashley, here
crowds, wisdom of, here
Cuesta, Juan de la, here
culture, here, here, here
culture industry, here
Cyberspace Renaissance, here

Dadaism, here
Dane, Joseph, here, here, here, here, here
Dark Ages, the, here
Darnton, Robert, here, here, here
data storage, here
Davis, Kathleen, here
Davison, W. Phillips, here
de Strata, Filippo, here, here
De Tocqueville, Alexis, here
Deacon, Richard, here
Defoe, Daniel, here
#DefundthePolice, here
deliberation, here
democracy, here, here, here, here
Dennie, Joseph, here
der Weduwen, Andrew, here, here
desacralization, here
determinism, here
Dewar, James, here, here
Dewey, John, here, here, here, here
Dewey Decimal System, here
dialects, here, here
dialogue, value of, here
Dickens, Charles, here
Diderot, here, here
Die neue Typographie (The New Typography) (Tschichold), here
Die Zeit, here
digital abundance, here
digital culture, here
disinformation, here, here
diversity, here
Donaldson, Alexander and John, here
Donatus Ars Grammatica, here
Donatus-Kalendar font, here
doomscrolling here
Dorsey, Jack, here
double consciousness, here
Douglass, Frederick, here, here
Doves Press Bible, here
dramatic publications, here, here
Dritzehn, Andreas, here
Dritzehn, Jörg, here
Dryden, John, here
Du Bois, W.E.B., here
Duggan, Mary Kay, here
Duncan, Dennis, here, here
Dunlap, John, here
Dunton, John, here
Dürer, Albrecht, here

East Germany, here
echo chambers, here, here
Eco, Umberto, here, here, here
economic foundation, here
economic model, here
economic theories, here
Economist, The, here
Edison, Thomas, here
Editor and Publisher, here, here
education, here, here, here, here
Egginton, William, here, here
Eisenstein, Elizabeth, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
electricity, here, here, here
Eliot, T.S., here
Elizabeth I, Queen, here
Ellis, Aytoun, here, here
Ellis, Markman, here
Emerson, Ralph Waldo, here, here
Empell, Hans-Michael, here
encyclopedias, here
endings, here
England
censorship, here
copyright laws, here, here, here
newspapers, here, here
spread of printing to, here
engraving, here, here
Enlightenment, the, here, here
entertainment, here, here
ephemera, here, here
Epicurious web site, here
epistemological warfare, here
equality, here
Erasmus, Desiderius, here, here, here, here, here, here
On Free Will, here
In Praise of Folly, here, here, here
Erne, Lukas, here, here
essays, here, here, here, here
Estienne, Robert, here
etchings, here
European Copyright Directive of 2019, here
European exceptionalism, here
experimentation, here
experts, here, here
extremists, here

Facebook, here, here, here, here, here
fact-checking, here
fake news, here, here, here
Falk, Seb, here
false news, here
fan-fiction, here
fantasy, here
Faulstich, Werner, here
Faustus, Dr., here
Febvre, Lucien, here, here, here, here
Feeney, Joan, here
Fenerty, Charles, here
Fichet, Guillaume, here
Fichtner, Ulrich, here
Fiedler, Leslie, here
Fielding, Henry, here
Fifth Lateran Council, here
filter bubbles, here, here
First Amendment doctrine, here, here, here
first known printed book, here
first-person effect, here
Fish, Stanley, here
Fontenai, Abbé de, here
fonts, here, here, here
forums, here
Foucault, Michel, here
Fourdrinier, Sealy and Henry, here
Fournier, Pierre Simon, here
Fox News, here
Fraktur, here
France, here, here, here, here
Franco-Prussian War, here
Franklin, Benjamin, here, here, here, here, here, here
Franklin, James, here
Fraser, Nancy, here, here, here
freedom of expression, here, here. see also censorship
freedom of speech, here, here. see also censorship
Freelon, Deen, here
French Revolution, here, here, here, here, here
frenemies, here
Fried, Johannes, here
Froben, Johann, here
Fuhrmann, Otto, here, here
Fukuyama, Francis, here
Fulton, Robert, here
fundamental attribution error, here
Füssel, Stephan, here, here, here
Fust, Johannes, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here

Gaines, Ervin, here
Galileo, here
Gallup, George, here
GameStop, here
Garamond, Claude, here
Garfield, Simon, here, here
Gart der Gesundheit (Garden of Health), here
Gates, Henry Louis, here
Ged, William, here
Gelthus, Adam, here
Gensfleisch, Friele, here
Gensfleisch, Johannes, here
George III, King, here
Germany, here, here, here, here
Giesebrecht, Ludwig, here
Gill, Eric, here, here
Giner, Salvador, here
Glaude, Eddie, Jr., here
global village, here
globalization, here
Goebbels, Joseph, here, here
Google, here, here, here
Gordon, W. Terrence, here
Grafton, Andrew, here
Great Depression, here
Green, Jonathon, here
Green, Robert, here
Greenwald, Anthony, here
Greflinger, Georg, here
Griffo, Francesco, here
Grimes, William, here
Guardian, The, here
Guillard, Charlotte, here
Gutenberg, Johannes, here, here, here, here
achievement, here, here
annuities, here
appearance, here
badge business, here
after the Bible, here
Bible project, here
capital, here
death of, here, here
education, here
ejected from Mainz, here
family background, here
Fust sues, here
legend, here
memorials, here
name, here
opens Parenthesis, here
print shop, here
printing after the Bible, here
printing business, here
status, here
Gutenberg Bible, here
B42, here, here
beauty, here
chapter headings, here
compositing, here
cost, here
font, here
hyphens, here
ink, here
page decorations, here
paper, here
press run, here
printing time, here
profit, here
project, here
size, here
Tabula Rubricarum, here
vellum, here
Gutenberg Foundation, here
Gutenberg Museum, Mainz, here, here
Gutenberg Oratorio, here
Gutenberg Parenthesis
closing of, here, here, here, here, here, here
enclosure of an exception, here
leaving, here
lessons of, here, here, here, here
moral of, here
opening, here, here
theory of, here
transition into, here
view of history, here

Habermas, Jürgen, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Hall, Matthew, here
Hamlet (Shakespeare), here
Hamling, William, here
Hansard, Thomas Curson, here, here, here, here
Harper's Weekly, here
Harris, Benjamin, here
hate, here
Hauck, Peter, here
Haveman, Heather, here
Hayes, Kevin, here, here
Hearst, William Randolph, here
Heilmann, Andreas, here
Heitsch, Dorothea, here
Helgerson, Richard, here
Hellinga, Lotte, here, here, here
Hellinga, W.G., here
Helmasperger, Ulrich, here
Heminges, John, here
Henry VIII, King, here, here
high art, here
Hill, Samantha Rose, here
Hillgärtner, Jan, here
Historic Book Odor Wheel, here
historical continuities, recognizing, here
history, lessons of, here, here
Hitler, Adolf, here, here
Holborn, Louise, here
Hone, John, here
Horkheimer, Max, here
hostage capital, here
hot news doctrine, here, here
hot type, here
Howe, Irving, here
Howsam, Leslie, here
Hughes, Everett, here
Hugo, Victor, here, here
The Hunchback of Notre Dam, here
Huizinga, Johan, here, here, here
human rights, here
humanism, here
Hume, David, here
Humery, Konrad, here
Hus, Jan, here
hyperlinks, here
hyphens, here
Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, here

Iberian Peninsula, spread of printing to, here
identity politics, here
illustrations, here, here, here
imagined communities, here
imposition, here
inclusivity, here, here
incunabula and the incunabular period, here
Index Librorum Prohibitorum (Index of Prohibited Books), here, here, here
indexes, here, here, here
individualism, here, here
individuality, here, here, here, here, here, here
indulgences, here, here
Industrial Revolution, here, here
industrialism, here
industrialization, here, here, here, here, here
information
distribution of, here
interactive system, here
ink, here, here, here
Innes, Harold, here
Innis, Harold, here
Innocent VII, Pope, here
innovation, here
institutions and institutional change, here, here, here, here, here
inventing new, here
organizing structures, here
regulation, here
securing, here
and societal evolution, here
intellectual property rights, here, here, here, here, here, here
International Journalism Festival, 2019, here
internet, the, here, here, here, here, here, here
address systems, here
birth of, here
Black space, here
business model, here, here
connections, here
content, here
and copyright, here
and disinformation, here
echo chambers, here
emancipation of the individual, here
freedoms, here
impact, here
and the mass, here
post-mass-media, here
potential, here
problems of, here
regulation, here
spread of, here
interpuncts, here
Irwin, Will, here
Isenburg, Diether von, here, here
Islam, here
isolation, here, here
italic typeface, here
Italy, here, here, here, here
Ivins, William, here

Jackaway, Gwenyth, here, here, here, here
Jackson, Sarah, here
Jacobson, Emily, here
Jaggard, William and Isaac, here
James, Elinor, here
Janssen, Frans, here
Jefferson, Thomas, here
Jenson, Nicolas, here, here, here
Johns, Adrian, here
Johnson, Henry, here
Johnson, Samuel, here, here, here, here, here
Jonghe, Adrien de, here
Jonson, Ben, here
journalism, here
journalistic objectivity, here
Junger, Sebastian, here

Kapr, Albert, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Keating, Charles Jr., here, here
Keating, Kenneth, here
Keimer, Samuel, here
Kelly, Kevin, here
Kemp, Earl, here
Kickstarter, here
King, Rachael Scarborough, here, here
King, Ross, here
King James Bible, here
Kirschenbaum, Matthew, here
Kirschenbaum, Valerie, here
Klein, Lawrence, here, here, here
knowledge, here
preservation of, here
Koberger, Anton, here
Koenig, Friedrich, here
Koops, Matthias, here
Korea, here, here
Kornhauser, William, here, here, here, here
Korzi, Michael, here
Kosseff, Jeff, here
Kramer, Dewey Weiss, here
Kubler, George, here
Künast, Hans-Jörg, here
Kurlansky, Mark, here

Langan, Tom, here
Langton, Stephen, here
language, here, here, here
Lasch, Christopher, here
Lawson, Alexander, here, here
Le Bon, Gustave, here
Lehmann-Haupt, Hellmut, here, here, here
Lelyveld, Arthur, here
Lemay, J.A. Leo, here
Lenard, Max, here
Leo X, Pope, here, here, here, here
Lerner, Max, here
L'Estrange, Roger, here, here, here
letters
long s, here
lowercase, here
round s, here
type-casting, here
letter-writing, here
liberalism, here
libraries, here, here
Lidsky, Lyrissa Barnett, here
Linotype, here, here
Lippmann, Walter, here, here
listening, here
literacy, here, here
literary prejudice, here
literary property, here
literature, here
lithography, here
Lloyd, Edward, here
Lloyd's List, here
Lloyd's Register, here
local, the, here
Locke, John, here
loneliness, here
long s, the, here
Louis XIV, king of France, here
Löwe, Carl, here
lowercase letters, here
Lowery, Wesley, here
Lowry, Martin, here, here
Luther, Martin, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Admonition to Peace, here
Against the Execrable Bull of the Antichrist, here
Against the Robbing and Murdering Hordes of Peasants, here
Ninety-five Theses, here
On the Bondage of the Will, here
publishing choices, here
Sermon on Indulgence and Grace, here, here
tone, here
Lutheranism, here
Lydgate, Barry, here, here
Lyell, Charles, here

Macaulay, Thomas Babington, here, here, here, here
McCarthy, Eugene, here
McCarthy, Isabel Feder, here
McCormick, Robert, here
McCrory, Donald, here
Macdonald, Dwight, here
McDowell, Paula, here
machine learning, here
McIlwain, Charlton, here, here
MacKellar, Thomas, here, here
McLuhan, Andrew, here
McLuhan, Marshall, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
McMurtrie, David, here
McMurtrie, Douglas, here
magazines, here
forerunners, here
Magno, Alessandro Marzo, here, here
Mainz, here, here, here, here, here, here
archbishops' war, here, here, here, here
Mainz Psalter, here
Making Publics Project, here
Malleus Maleficarum, here
Man, John, here, here, here
Manguel, Alberto, here
manipulation, here, here, here
Manutius, Aldus, here, here, here
Marco Polo, here
Marcus, Leah, here
marine chronometer, here
market research, here
Martin, Henri-Jean, here, here, here, here
Martin, Waldo, Jr., here
Marx, Karl, here
Marxism, here
Mary, Queen, here
mass, and the internet, the, here
mass, the, here
and culture, here
delusion of, here
facets, here
function, here
and market research, here
and mass media, here
nature of, here
political variants, here
power, here
segmentation, here
theory of, here
mass culture, here, here
mass market, here, here, here
mass media, here, here, here, here, here
mass participation, here
mass production, here
mass society, here
mass theory, here
Massing, Michael, here
master narrative, here
Matthews, John, here
Maximilian I, Emperor, here, here
mechanization, here, here, here
Media Ecology Association, here, here
media literacy, here
media mediators, here
memory, here
Mencken, H.L., here
Menschmedien, here
Mentelin, Johann, here, here
Menzies, Gavin, here
Mergenthaler, Ottmar, here
Messina, Chris, here
Meßrelationen, here
Mexico, here
Michelet, Jules, here
Middle Ages, here, here
Millanges, Simon, here
Milton, John, here, here
mind, theory of, here
Minnich, Nelson, here
misinformation, here, here
Mitchell, Arnold, here
Mitchell, John, here
moderators, here
modern age, the, here
Monfasani, John, here
Montaigne, Michel de, here, here, here, here, here
moral clarity, here
moral panics, here, here, here, here
Moran, James, here
More, Sir Thomas, here, here
Utopia, here, here
Morris, William, here
Morrison, James, here
movable type, here, here, here, here
credit for, here
invention of, here
Movement for Marginal Protection, here
Moxon, Joseph, here, here, here, here, here
mummies, burial shrouds stripped to make paper, here
Müntzer, Thomas, here
Murdoch, Rupert, here
Murrow, Edward R., here
Musk, Elon, here

Napoli, Philip, here
narrative, here, here
National Commission on Obscenity and Pornography, here, here
National Endowment for the Arts, here
nationalism, here
Nazi Germany, politicization of typography, here
Needham, Paul, here, here, here, here, here
Ness, University, here
Netherlands, the, here, here
neuroscience, here
new age, cusp of, here
new technology, fear of, here
New York Times Book Review, The, here
New York Times, The, here, here, here, here
Newcombe, G.M., here
Newhouse, Steven, here, here
news books, here, here
news ecosystem, here
news wire services, here
newspapers
authority, here
birth of, here
Black Americans and, here
broadsides, here
business model, here
and coffehouses, here
copyright, here
definition, here
first, here, here, here
influence, here, here
Petta, Massimo, here
preconditions for, here
precursors, here
role in the slave trade, here
spread of, here
status, here
news-singers, here
Nisbet, Robert, here
Niskanen Center, here
Nixon, Richard, here
Noble, John, here
noise, here
North, Roger, here
nostalgia, here
novel, the
birth of, here, here
and public conversation, here
Nuovo, Angela, here
Nuremberg Chronicle, here
Nymanover, Evert, here

objectivity, here, here
obscenity, here
O'Callaghan, Daniel, here
offset printing, here
Ong, Wang, here
oral cultures, here
O'Reilly, Tim, here
Ortega y Gasset, José, here, here
Ortelius, Abraham, here
Owen, Robert, here
ownership economy, here
Ozment, Kate, here

Page, Will, here
page numbering, here, here
Palmer, Ada, here
pamphlet novel, the, here
pamphlets, here
Pannartz, Arnold, here
paper
Gutenberg Bible, here
invention of, here, here
wood pulp, here
paper sizes, here
paper-making, here, here
parchment, here
Pariser, Eli, here
past, the, lessons of, here, here
paternalism, here
Patry, William, here
Patterson, Leo, here
Paul II, Pope, here
Pendergrast, Mark, here
Pepys, Samuel, here
Peregrinatio in Terram Sanctam (A Pilgrimage to the Holy Land), here
periodization, problem of, here
Perloff, Richard, here
permanence, here
Perotti, Niccolò, here
Petersen, Michael Bang, here
Petrarch, here, here
Petta, Massimo, here
Pettegree, Andrew, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Pettitt, Tom, here, here, here, here
Pfefferkorn, Johannes, here
Pfister, Albrecht, here, here
photocomposition, here, here
photography, here
Piper, Andrew, here, here
Pius II, Pope, here, here, here
Plantin, Christophe, here, here
Plastic.com, here
plays, here, here
Plomer, H.R., here
pluralistic society, here, here
politicization, of typography, here
Pope, Alexander, here, here
Popkin, Jeremy, here
populist mob, rise of, here
Pörksen, Bernhard, here
pornography, here, here
first printed, here
Portugal, spread of printing to, here
postal network, here
Postman, Neil, here, here, here, here
post-mass age, here, here
Postscript, here
precursors, here
press associations, here
press freedom, here
presses, here
Pressman, Jessica, here, here
presumptions, print, here
Price, Leah, here
print and printing
epoch of, here
evolution, here
history of, here
impact, here
origins, here
power, here
presumptions, here
scale of, here
spread of, here, here
transition to, here
unintended consequences, here
print 2.0, here
print culture, here, here, here, here, here
print-capitalism, here, here, here, here
printers, customers, here
printing press, here
emergence of, here
impact, here
mighty screw, here
the Stanhope press, here
steam power, here, here
printing process, here
complexity, here
compositing, here
first known description of, here
ink, here, here
letters, here
the press, here
type-casting, here
typesetting, here
privacy, here, here, here
propaganda, here
Prosper, Roger, here
public debate, here
public opinion, here
Public Opinion Quarterly, here
public sphere, here, here, here, here, here
Puritanism, here
Puterbaugh, Joseph, here

Qu'ran, here

racism, here, here
radio, competition from, here
Rae, Saul, here
railways, here
RAND Corporation, here
Ratatouille: The TikTok Musical, here
Raven, James, here, here, here
reading, here, here, here
corrupting influence of, here
private, here
reality TV, here
Reddit, here, here
Reformation, the, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Reinders, Michel, here
Relotius, Claas, here
Rembar, Charles, here, here
Rembrandt, here
Renaissance, the, here, here, here, here
Renaudot, Théophraste, here
repeatability, here
republics, and conversation, here
resetting, here
Reske, Christoph, here
Reuwich, Erhard, here
Rhau-Grunenberg, Johann, here, here
Richardson, Samuel, here, here
Riffe, Hans, here
Rigolot, François, here
Rini, Regina, here
Robert, Nicolas-Louis, here
Robles, Francisco de, here
Roman Church, here, here, here, here, here
Roman Empire, here, here
roman typeface, here
Romano, Frank, here
Rome, Ancient, here
Romeo and Juliet (Shakespeare), here
Ronfeldt, David, here
Roosevelt, Franklin D., here
Rose, Mark, here
Rosen, Jay, here, here
Rosenberg, Alex, here
Rosenberg, Bernard, here, here
Ross, Lee, here
round s, here
Routledge, George, here
royalties, here
Rubery, Matthew, here
Ruppel, Aloys, here, here, here
Russian Revolution, here
Russwurm, John B., here

Saenger, Paul, here, here
San Marco's bell, arrest of, here
Sangster, Matthew, here
Sarton, George, here, here
Saspach, Konrad, here
Saspach, Nicholas, here
Sauerberg, Lars Ole, here, here
Savonarola, Girolama, here
Scheurl, Conrad, here
Schmidt, Jörg, here
Schoeffer, Peter, here, here
Schöffer, Johann, here
Schöffer, Peter, here, here, here, here
Schöffer, Peter the younger, here
scholarship, here
Schott, Klaus, here
Schwab, Richard N., here
Scientific Revolution, here, here, here, here
Scottish Enlightenment, here
scribal culture, here, here
scribes, here, here, here, here, here
scriptura continua, here, here
scrolls, here
seals, here
secondary orality, here
self, sense of, here
self-publishing, here
semicolons, here
Senefelder, Alois, here
Shakespeare, William, here, here, here
Shils, Edward, here, here
Shirky, Clay, here
Sibylline Prophecy, here
silent majority, the, here
Silicon Valley, here
Sixtus IV, Pope, here
Skjönsberg, Max, here
Slauter, Will, here
slaves and slavery, here, here, here
Smith, Adam, here
Smith, Margaret, here, here
social media, here
Black space, here
moral panic, here
power, here
precedent in coffeehouses, here
social-distance corollary, here
societal evolution, here
Sonetti Lussuriosi, here
Sorbonne, the, here
Spain, spread of printing to, here
Spanó, Róbert Ragnar, here
Sparrow, Walter Shaw, here
Spectator, The, here, here, here, here
speech, freedom of, here
spelling, here
Speyer, Johann von, here
Spieringk, Nicolaus, here
Spotify, here
standardization, here, here
standards, here
Stanhope, Charles Mahon, third Earl of, here, here
Stanhope press, here
Stanwood, I. Augustus, here
Starr, Paul, here
Stationers' Company, here, here, here
Status Quo Warriors, here
Statute of Anne, here, here, here
steam power, here, here, here
steamships, here
Steele, Richard, here, here, here
Steinberg, S.H., here, here, here, here
Steiner, George, here
stereotyping, here, here, here
story and storytelling, here
Stover, J.W., here
Strahan, William, here
Strasbourg, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
subaltern counterpublics, here
Sullivan, Andrew, here
Sunstein, Cass, here
Surowiecki, James, here
Sweynheym, Conrad, here, here

Tatler, The, here, here, here
Taylor, Jordan, here
tech bust, 2000, here
technological determinism, here, here
telegraph, here, here
television, here, here, here
Tetzel, Johann, here, here
Thatcher, Margaret, here
third-person effect, here, here
Thirty Years' War, here, here, here, here
Thomas, Isaiah, here
TikTok, here
Tilghman, Benjamin Chew, here
The Times, here, here, here, here
Times Literary Supplement, here
title page, invention of, here
titles, here
Tonnac, Jean-Philippe de, here, here
totalitarianism, here
Transatlantic High-Level Working Group on Content Moderation Online and Freedom of Expression, here
transportation, here, here
Trettien, Whitney, here
Trithemius, Johannes, here
trolls, here, here, here
Trump, Donald, here, here, here, here, here
truth, here, here
Tschichold, Jan, here
Türkenkalendar, here
Twain, Mark, here, here, here, here
Twitter, here, here, here
Tyndale, William, here
type sizes, here
type-casting machinery, here
typefaces, here, here, here
typesetting, here, here
typographic extension, here
typographical fixity, here
typography, here, here, here, here

Udell, Rochelle, here
unintended consequences, here
United States of America
censorship, here
copyright laws, here, here
presidential election, 2016, here, here
Section, here, here
Universal Short Title Catalogue, University of St Andrews, here
University of St Andrews, Universal Short Title Catalogue, here
Updike, Daniel Berkeley, here, here
Updike, John, here
US Copyright Term Extension Act, here
Utopia (More), here, here
Uzanne, Octave, here

Vallée, Jean-François, here
van Berghen, Adriaen, here
Van der Mey, J., here
van der Weel, Adriaan, here
Vance Smith, D., here
vellum, here
Venice, here, here, here
voices, here
Volkmar, Christoph, here

Wahrman, Dror, here
Waldvogel, Procopius, here
Wales, Jimmy, here
Walter, E.V., here
Walter, John II, here
Wang Zhen, here
Warfield, Abaigéal, here
Warner, Michael, here
Washington Post, The, here
Watt, James, here
web 2.0, here
Webb, Diane, here
Webb, George, here
Weber, Harold, here
Weber, Johannes, here, here
Webster, Noah, here, here, here
Weinberger, David, here, here
Weiss-Blatt, Nirit, here
WELL bulletin board, here
Welles, Brooke Foucault, here
Wells, Ida B., here
Wesel, Johann Ruchrath von, here
Wessler, Hartmut, here
Western values, here
W.H. Smith, here
White, Eric Marshall, here
white power structure, here
white privilege, here
white supremacy, here, here
whiteness, here
Wieland, Christoph Martin, here
Wikipedia, here
Wilkes, John, here, here, here
Williams, Daniel, here
Williams, Raymond, here
Williams, Talcott, here
Williamson, Joseph, here
Wilson, Andrew, here
witchcraft, here
Wittenberg, here, here
women, here
moral degradation, here
and public conversation, here
role of, here
Wong, Yishan, here
Wood, Anthony, here
woodblock printing, here, here
woodcuts, here, here, here
Woolf, Leonard, here
word separation, here
Worde, Wynkyn de, here, here
word-of-mouth, here
words, commodification of, here
World Economic Forum, here, here
World War I, here, here
World War II, here
writing
circulation of, here
private, here
purpose of, here
spread of, here
Wroth, Lawrence, here
Wu, Tim, here, here

xersography, here

Yachnin, Paul, here
Yankelovich, Daniel, here
Yoran, Hanan, here
Young, P. Bernard, Jr., here

Zaid, Gabriel, here
Zall, P.M., here
Zolli, Daniel, here
Zuckerberg, Mark, here, here
Zuichemus, Viglius, here
Zweig, Stefan, here
Zwinger, Theodor, here







COLOPHON
Since the age of the scribes and into Gutenberg's time, colophons provided readers with information about the source and production of books.
The typefaces you read here come with their own stories. Headings are set in Doves Type, inspired initially by Nicolas Jenson's first roman typeface. Doves was designed around the turn of the twentieth century—then discarded in the Thames—by Thomas James Cobden-Sanderson, and lately resurrected by Robert Green. The body type is Sabon, favored by many book publishers, designed by Jan Tschichold after he escaped imprisonment by the Nazis over the typographical aesthetic he advocated in Die neue Typographie. You may read about them in Chapter 13. The drop initials at the beginning of each chapter—meant to invoke the spirit of inky, hand-set, letterpress type—are Champ Fleury from GLC Foundry. Glenn Fleishman and Robert Green kindly provided advice on the typography.
The book was produced using Google Docs, then Microsoft Word, then Adobe InDesign. It was typeset by RefineCatch Limited of Bungay, Suffolk, UK. For the first printing of the first edition of the book, the text was supplied to the Sheridan Group in Chelsea, Michigan, as a PDF. That is, the text was no longer letters but instead shapes described by a descendent of the language PostScript (mentioned in Chapter 15). From that file, printing plates—with twenty-four pages each—were produced by laser in a Kodak Platesetter. In the Timson one-color web offset press, signatures of fortyeight pages were printed and folded from continuous rolls of 50# Glatfelter stock. The book was then bound in a Kolbus binder, with the cover— designed by Ben Anslow—printed separately.







 

 
BLOOMSBURY ACADEMIC
Bloomsbury Publishing Inc
1385 Broadway, New York, NY 10018, USA
50 Bedford Square, London, WC1B 3DP, UK
29 Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2, Ireland

BLOOMSBURY, BLOOMSBURY ACADEMIC and the Diana logo are trademarks of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc

First published in the United States of America 2023

Copyright © Jeff Jarvis, 2023

Cover design: Ben AnslowCover images: A page of the Bible printed by Johan Gutenberg in Mainz c.1455, Biblia Sacra Vulgata, first major book printed using mass-produced movable metal type, beginning of the age of the printing press (© Lebrecht Music & Arts / Alamy Stock Photo); Javascript program code programming script vector background. Coding script command, programming function javascript illustration (© Aleksei Egorov / Alamy Stock Vector)

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or any information storage or retrieval system, without prior permission in writing from the publishers.

Bloomsbury Publishing Inc does not have any control over, or responsibility for, any third-party websites referred to or in this book. All internet addresses given in this book were correct at the time of going to press. The author and publisher regret any inconvenience caused if addresses have changed or sites have ceased to exist, but can accept no responsibility for any such changes.

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Names: Jarvis, Jeff, 1954- author.Title: The Gutenberg parenthesis : the age of print and its lessons for the age of the internet / Jeff Jarvis.Description: New York : Bloomsbury Academic, 2023. | Includes bibliographical references and index. | Summary: "As we begin to leave the Gutenberg age, and into a era dominated by the Internet, we have much to learn from how we transitioned into the age of print and how it changed how we think and communicate"- Provided by publisher.Identifiers: LCCN 2022047603 (print) | LCCN 2022047604 (ebook) | ISBN 9781501394829 (hardback) | ISBN 9781501394843 (ebook) | ISBN 9781501394850 (pdf) | ISBN 9781501394867 (ebook other) Subjects: LCSH: Printing-History.Classification: LCC Z124 .J37 2023 (print) | LCC Z124 (ebook) | DDC 686.209—dc23/eng/20230123LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2022047603LC ebook record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2022047604

       ISBN:      HB:       978-1-5013-9482-9
                   ePDF:     978-1-5013-9485-0
                  eBook:     978-1-5013-9484-3

Typeset by RefineCatch Limited, Bungay, Suffolk

To find out more about our authors and books visit www.bloomsbury.com and sign up for our newsletters.



