




Small Talk Method
 
 
Communication Skills To Win Friends, Talk To Anyone, and Always Know What To Say
 
Matt Morris
 
 
 
 












Table of Contents
 
Introduction
Chapter 1: Put On Your Small Talk Helmet              
Chapter 2: The Best Locations To Unleash Your Small Talk Skills
Chapter 3: Your Voice Speaks Louder Than Your Words
Chapter 4: The 5 Most Important Questions You Need To Answer
Chapter 5: The Small Talk Skills That Will Set You Apart From Other Humans
Chapter 6: The 10 Powerful Beliefs That Will Let You Lead Any Conversation
Chapter 7: More Questions To Ask & Topics To Avoid
The Awkward Moment Solutions
Conclusion
Recommended Books:
SPECIAL BONUS
 
 
Copyright 2014 by Globalized Healing, LLC - All rights reserved.
Click Here For Free & On-Sale Books
 











Introduction
 
Small talk. It is an uncomfortable, awkward, superficial way of communicating that is considered a waste of time and at the same time, a necessity to communication.  It is more than an art. It is a science. When you combine the two, it becomes a mixture of colorful options in which you can choose what to say based on your creativity, personal experiences, and the method (or formula) that will soon be laid in front of you. 
Take life by the balls and jump into the fire, initiating small talk or words to ignite a conversation to reach the point where a listener feels compelled and excited to talk to you, that is...if you want to continue talking to this person. If you don't learn to do this, you'll watch your life sail by and then you'll wake up one day thinking, "What if I had talked to this or that person...? Where would I be today?" These thoughts surround the small talk that ignites 99% of all new relationships; networking events to advance your career; small talking with your boss, clients, or even your neighbor to fill the awkward silence as you pass each other every few days. 
Small talk can be a tailspin of regurgitated jumble that exits the mouth on a daily basis; or it can be words which flow in a fashion similar to a breathtaking Monet painting that leads to fulfilling conversations and a life filled with possibility. 
Most people engage in small talk without thinking about it. For example, whenever you enter a grocery store and make eye contact with a worker and he asks, "Hi, how are you?", the words are simply on autopilot; and your autopilot might be to say "Good." Then you go on with your lives, never really making that genuine connection that makes life so wonderful and rewarding. What if you were to turn the small talk into a simple system and connect with him in a matter of minutes so that each time you entered the grocery store he knew your name, and was happy to see you?
What if you had the ability to connect with the store clerk about how "strange" the weather has been with the ungodly amounts of rain in the past week, and become friends in a matter of minutes; or the next time you see your neighbor on his lawn he invites you over for dinner with his family instead of just saying "How's it going?"; or what if the next time you're in a dentists' waiting room you choose to have small talk with the stranger next to you and fill the empty space of worrying thoughts with ones of how you both own Weimaraner dogs and the new doggie park that just opened near your home?
The ability to connect with others and form relationships with others keeps life fun, adventurous, and exciting. Therefore, mastering the skill of small talk is a challenging one, yet one that is admired by many, and important for living and being successful in today's world. 
The small talk method will show you how to talk to anybody, win friends and always have something to say. You will discover a plethora of tips, insight and wisdom about how you can become a master at small talk with The Small Talk Method.
Some of the strategies offered in this book might seem totally off-the-wall, wacky, or even mildly humorous, asking you to step way outside of your box. I encourage you to try each of the strategies with a perspective of "just having fun," not only because it will exponentially improve your small-talk abilities, but more so because you will grow as an individual and determine what works best for you, and what does not. 
By the end of this book, I want you to look back at these questions, and think to yourself, "Small talk is simple, fun, and improves my life everyday." Let's get started!
 











Chapter 1: Put On Your Small Talk Helmet 
Small talk is like the starting point to a maze. You entered the maze and now you have to decide which route is best for you. You can choose Path A and use it to let the time pass; Path B to fill any dead air and avoid awkward silences; or Path C to lead to deeper, meaningful conversations. 
In most cases, it is with a person whom you just met or have had very little previous interaction. It is how conversations begin when you are sitting next to someone in a waiting room, a classroom, or on an airplane. The words, "Hi. Where are you from?" can open a door to a thousand conversations, or you can decide to shut it depending on how the person responds and what you want.
Small talk is the core essence of how 99% of all relationships are formed. From a random-topic of conversation such as the warm weather in San Diego to a profound, meaningful one such as why there are still bits of racism around the world, or how technology is killing "natural" communication. The beauty of conversation is that it stimulates a wide range of electrifying emotions, opening minds and bringing a new level of understanding between people and cultures. 
Small talk sets the foundation for building a deep, meaningful connection with another person. Therefore, it is also an important skill that people should master so that they can simply reach in their back pocket to use as needed - anywhere, anytime, anyplace. 
Before we jump into the tips and strategies for small talk, let's first take a look at the value of small talk. Here are a few reasons why making small talk can enhance your life.

Small talk will boost your intelligence.

According to research done by the researchers at the University of Michigan, it is said that a friendly socialization can enhance one's ability to comprehend and solve problems. This is proven by Oscar Ybarra, a well-known psychologist. He said that social interactions let people read and understand the minds of other people so that we as humans can function more effectively in society. 
It also forces you to think faster. When someone asks you a question when you're not expecting one, it will require you to think on your feet to organize and present ideas rapidly. 
 

Small talk will improve your self-confidence.

Approaching strangers and knowing what to say is a challenging task. However, by making small talk a regular part of your day, and repetitively engaging in small talk, your confidence in your social abilities will significantly increase. In addition, small talk will give you the opportunity to connect with others on an emotional level, increasing your confidence in your ability to understand others.
 

Small talk will make you attentive and a better listener.

              If you are conversing with other people, then you need to direct and focus your attention on them, and be in the moment. It is important to be with the person and do your best to feel and understand what point they are trying to get across. You'll be amazed at how much your listening skills improve, especially if you practice doing this with every conversation for the next 30 days. People want to be heard, understood, and feel that they are not alone, and by participating in small talk this is what you can give to others.
 
After a few months of participating in small talk, you'll notice that you have an ability to predict what others are about to say as well as read deep into a person to determine if there is something behind what they are saying. For instance, if you ask "What do you think of this rainy weather?" and they respond, "I love it." But you feel, based on your thousands of small talk interactions that there is something else going on because you heard a slight jump in that person's tone of voice as they said the word "love." In addition, you read and listen to what their eyes are telling you, and you feel there is something much deeper going on. From this point, depending on your how deep you feel like venturing, you can decide to get curious about what their comment is really about, or you can simply leave it as it is, smile, and walk away. 
 
Again, this is a deeper, more advanced level of listening that comes with a commitment to listening, hearing, and understanding what the other person is trying to say. Of course, the more you practice, the faster you will see improvement. 
 
 

Small talk will brighten days.

Have you ever been in a room filled when acquaintances and felt drained, like you didn't want anyone to see you, and especially did not want to engage in conversation? Then all of a sudden someone walks in the room and looks at you with a smile on his (or her) face? At first you think, "I hope he is not looking at me," and then "please God do not let him talk to me." 
Then he does. He says "Hi. How are you?", with a bright shiny smile and gleaming eyes. For some strange reason, as you say, "I'm doing pretty good," you get a sudden rush of excitement running through your spine. You immediately begin to feel better. You aren't sure why or how it happened. But, you feel significantly better as the seconds pass and you connect with him. This is a tiny example of what small talk can do for you and other people.
 
The Fastest Way to Improve Communication Skills
Some people are born with natural charisma to make others melt with each word that comes out of the mouth. Others are born with the charm to convince others to follow them to the end of time. While some are born with the natural social confidence to feel completely confident being themselves in social settings, and the realm of anxiety about what others are thinking about them doesn't even come into existence. Whereas, 99% or us are not like that. Most of us need guidance to improve our skills so that we can look as smooth as the "naturals." 
It starts with the habits and beliefs that have been manifested into your mind such as:

How you believe society will respond to you socially
Your belief in your ability to know what to say 
Your ability to show that you are another human being who has something to offer others. In return, people will give back to you - and now it is time to grab the reins and learn how to small talk.

 
Habits: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly
Habits are mentioned here because they are important in forming the person you are and the person you are becoming. They are the patters and beliefs that you've trained both your mind and body into believing. Some of the habits have turned into judgments and assumptions based on others' experiences, as well as your own. Good and bad ones develop from our own beliefs, and the beliefs of people who have helped to train our minds such as our parents, teachers, and friends. 
Habits are mostly created from our own experiences. When something feels good, we have a tendency to keep doing it over and over until it eventually becomes a good (or bad) habit. These vary from smoking cigarettes, to taking out the trash every Wednesday, to making small talk with the person standing in front of you at your favorite coffee shop. It's really a risk vs. reward scenario. Is the risk or reward higher? If the reward (or pleasure) is higher than what you are risking, then the first step of habit formation has been created. From this point, it is repetition that determines whether it will become part of your closet of good and bad habits.
It generally takes 30 days for a habit to form. Therefore, if you were to make small talk with a stranger in front of you at your favorite coffee shop every day for the next 30 days, your small talk abilities will significantly improve. Subconsciously your mind will tell you what works and what doesn't based on the responses you get from the other person. If a person responds favorably, your mind will toss that scenario into the "things-that-work" category, and if you get rejected or shutdown, your mind will throw the scenario into the "things-that-don't work" category. From that point, you can either avoid scenarios like that for the future because it is uncomfortable, or you can be like a scientist and figure out what went wrong so you can improve next time, which I recommend because the reality is that life is an experiment. You never know what will happen (especially in social situations) unless you try it out. Once you try it, then you will have clear-cut evidence that it does or does not work. 
With each new social interaction, your body and mind will either reward you with a good feeling or a bad one. 
 
 











Chapter 2: The Best Locations To Unleash Your Small Talk Skills
Location, location, location! That is half the battle. If you are going to meet someone, you need to know where to meet him or her. You also need a purpose of who want to meet, and why you want to meet them. Once you are clear, you can select a wise place to meet the person you are looking for. There are so many times when people attend networking events, or go to a specific location in hopes of "meeting someone," without any details or specifics. This is where specificity is worth a million dollars. If you know what or who you are looking for, you will save hours (days, months, years) of time and hardship. The reality is we only have so much time, so use it wisely. 
 
Meeting Locations:

Coffee Shop:

People go to coffee shops to relax, maybe chat it up with someone new, and of course get a little caffeinated. Feel free to talk to someone new in coffee shops for 3 reasons: 

They will be more receptive to approaches because of the unintimidating environment.
They are waiting for you to talk to them because if they didn't then they would simply stay at home. 
It is a simple environment to practice meeting awesome new strangers.

Next time you are in a coffee shop, start a conversation with someone new just for fun to see where it takes you. 
 

Grocery Store

If you're looking to meet friends in a grocery store, then you probably either love food, are health conscious, or looking for someone to cook you dinner. This is a fun place to start innocent conversations, and get excellent food recommendations from fellow customers.
 

Laundromat

It's easy to chat it up in the L-mat. First off you will both be waiting for a lengthy period of time until the suds get washed into each of your wardrobes, so why not small-talk it up for a bit? It will make the time go by much faster too.
 

Gym

If you're going to the gym, then you know all the other people are in there for one of three reasons: they want to stay healthy and maintain shape, want to lose weight, or put on some muscle and get ripped. Having this similar purpose for going to the gym is a great way to establish a commonality. Of course the most obvious way to start a conversation in a gym would be to ask someone for a "spot," or advice on how to build muscle. However, in the gym you'll notice that many people wear business brand shirts such as for the company they work for or the college they went to, or a military t-shirt, all of which offer great conversation starters. 
 

The Street

In big cities, the street is an amazing place to meet a wide variety of people. You can have 25 new conversations in a matter of only 2 to 3 hours. It is a great way to broaden your perspective on how interesting our world is and how it is made up of so many cultures and nationalities - only to realize that although we may look much different, we really aren't.
 

School

This is easy an easy location to meet people as you will likely see them at least a few times a week. Although it can get complicated if your bring romance into the picture due to the fact that again, you see them often. 
Talk to your seat-neighbors to see what they are about and what they do for fun. If you spot someone walking by that looks interesting or that you're curious about, say "Hi," and ask your curious question, with the emotion you are feeling. For example, "I'm a little nervous talking to you because I normally don't talk to strangers and I wanted to ask you...(ask your curious question)." 
Or "I'm curious, how come you like the Dodgers yet you live in Florida." 
If you like them, invite them to do something you both like. Simple right?
 

Adult Sports Leagues

Sports are one of the best ways to find friends. You are both committed to having fun and playing on the field. Why not find other interests and take it off the field to have fun elsewhere too? 
 

The Mall

If you need to go shopping, or need shopping advice...the mall is the best place to go. Women, especially love to participate in a man's clothing quest, and some men enjoy shopping too. The best strategy to start a conversation in a store is to say, "Hey can I get your opinion really quick. Which do you like better (hold up shirt A), or (hold up shirt B)?"
From that point you can decide whether you want to continue the conversation on not (based on the one she or he chooses). Have fun with it.
 

Concerts

Concerts are fun environments. Although they can be loud, they can also be excellent ways to meet new people - especially outdoor concerts where you really can just walk up to anyone and start a conversation.
 

Bar

The alcohol is flowing as people are getting more open, relaxed, and even a little tipsy. The environment is getting more social and the volume keeps climbing each hour. Due to the fact that people are more relaxed, it is easier to talk to people - that is as long as you don't mind the loud people and music. Test it out because it can be fun, and you might meet an interesting chap or two.
 

Volunteering

If you are volunteering, you've got a huge heart and the person next to you most likely does too. What a wonderful place to meet somebody with similar interests - anything from wanting to make a difference, to helping less-privileged people out, to simply giving your time to help out the community. 
Also, if you're feeling up to it, go ahead and make small talk with the customers (of course if it's not busy, and you don't have anything work-related to do). It's a great way to practice and make good use of your time. Plus you might meet your next girlfriend, or someone who can show you a good time. 
 

Church

With church, similar to volunteering, you have a similar spark of interest based around your religion. Maybe you are just curious and wanted to find out more about a religion, or you are a regular church-goer, whatever it is, it is an easy place to just say "Hi, how are you?" introduce yourself, and begin using The Small Talk Method.
 

Meetup Group

Thank goodness for the Internet...and Meetup. If you haven't heard of meetup, then I don't know where you've been hiding the last 10 years. And if you haven't tried www.meetup.com, then you should. It's an incredibly easy way to meet like-minded individuals. What's a better way to find friends than through hobbies you already enjoy?
 

Book (or Movie) Club

Some people like to read. Some people like to watch movies. This is another easy way to meet new people that have similar interests.
 

At Work

Talk to your coworkers. It's as easy as that. Say "hi" to a person walking down the hallway and find out who your co-worker (or building mate) is. Maybe he will be your future bestman at your wedding; maybe he is someone that you will eventually have as a business partner; maybe he's someone who can watch your children (or dog) next weekend. Who knows? You can only gain from engaging in this interaction and learn about others.
 

Airplane

Due to the fact that you are required to sit next to another person on airplanes makes it perfect for conversations. In that case, open the "conversation can" and see what's inside. See who that person is next to you. You might meet someone who can get you backstage passes to a Rolling Stones concert, or someone who has a spare bedroom at his house in Copenhagen, Denmark.
 
17.  Hotel
If you're a guest at a hotel, talk to the employees and guests. In most hotels (and hostels) there is a lobby where guests can congregate and make small talk.  You can freely converse in the lobby and order some coffee or food. It is an excellent way to start a small talk conversation, and you may make a good friend.
 
 











Chapter 3: Your Voice Speaks Louder Than Your Words
Your voice gives you an image. You could have the looks of Johnny Depp with a voice like Kermit, or look like Michelle Keegan and have a nasally voice similar to Mila Kunis. Even though you might be a tall, lanky, person who is smiling and happy 99% of the time, your voice can make you appear as a short, beefy, tired person. You have two options - you can either embrace your voice and accept it as it is; or you can make small changes to make it sound more attractive to yourself and others around you. In this chapter, you'll learn strategies to do both.
Everyones' voice fluctuates slightly from time to time depending on their mood because emotions affect the way your voice sounds. For example, maybe you're at work, feeling tired because last night you kept tossing and turning because you kept thinking about how you want everything to be "perfect" for your guests coming to town this weekend. Therefore, people will hear the tiredness in your voice. 
On the other hand, if you had gotten that glorious cup of 7-11 coffee, then chances are your mind would be firing at 1 million volts per second, and your words would be coming out at rapid-fire speed. The point being that everyone has the ability to slightly alter aspects of their voice based on how they are feeling and it's important to understand this about yourself so that you can place yourself in (or take yourself out of) situations where you know your voice will be an asset. 
Some people have a "professional voice" when at work, and a "more relaxed, playful voice" when at home. I'm not talking about completely changing your voice like Robin Williams in Mrs. Doubtfire. I'm talking about slight variations to the way your voice sounds.
 
Voices Around You
A persons' voice (and accent) will sound similar to the people he or she grew up with. Notice that a person who moves from a foreign country will have an accent that sounds like the people in his home country; whereas if he lives in another location (where people have different accents), his voice will mesh and become a combination of the accents from the two places he lived. For example, if this man was born in Japan, and grew up in England since the age of ten, his voice will assimilate and transform to what he hears is the "correct pronunciation" in England based on the positive responses he receives from other people. Therefore, his voice will have a mix of a Japanese and English accent, and constantly get the question "Where are you from?" simply based on his unique voice.
In addition, if you're a woman who grew up with your mom, you'll notice similarities between your voice and your mom's - you may have noticed that when people called looking for your mom, they mistook your voice for hers. 
Wherever you are - at home, on an airplane, or a coffee shop - take a moment to listen to the voices around you. If it is quiet where you are, turn on a television, radio, or step outside to listen to people talking. Now close your eyes for a few minutes and just listen to peoples' voices. Put an image to each of the voices you hear. 

What are you imagining? Do you imagine a tall, middle-aged woman with brunette hair who's from New York City who is in a hurry to get on the subway? Do you imagine a petite, confident, blonde-haired woman who makes sure she is heard every time she talks by the way she pronounces her words?

 

Now, take a look at what the people look like. Were you correct?

* Now let's take a gander at your voice. It's best if you have a something to record your voice like a computer program, or a voice recorder (or even a video camera). If you don't, just close your eyes and take a few moments to listen to your voice as you answer these questions. Again, if you have something to record your voice, go ahead and begin recording. 
 
Two New Strangers 
If you are feeling extra-creative today, have fun with me on this next strategy. Imagine you just walked in a room and you've spotted two strangers who you are required to talk to. The following is an example you can use to prepare yourself for any future uncomfortable or intimidating small talk situations. The point is to record your voice to see if how you sound in order to see if there is anything you'd like to change. For this example, let's give these two strangers the names Bob and Jessica.

The first person is a man named Bob who is a burly man, with a long beard and shaved head, standing 6'5 tall, looking slightly intimidating. He appears to many people as intelligent due to his sleek business coat, deep raspy confident-sounding voice, and how the words just seem to naturally flow out of his mouth every time he speaks. 

 

The second person is a beautiful woman with wavy-blonde hair. Her name is Jessica and she comes off as slightly intimidating, especially after you notice how attractive she is to you. In fact, she has intense and powerful looking eyes. 

Those were two examples of characters I created on the spot. Go ahead and create your own Stranger, and give him or her a name. You can use this "person" over and over again, until you feel comfortable (which normally takes a few days). After you are comfortable, you can use him or her to help you in uncomfortable situations. For example, if you feel nervous or anxious at a small talk event, imagine that "Bob" is with you to support you and give you that extra boost of confidence that you need. Try it and watch how your confidence goes up.
 
The Hairstylist
Another effective approach is what I like to call "the hairstylists powerful question technique." Haircuts often become a process of dishing out family dirt, affairs, and inner-conflicts that we would not even tell our closest friends. It's almost like your hair-stylist becomes the listening ears that you need for the next 30 minutes. 
Sometimes I think hair-stylists should win a "Questioneer of the Year" award. Why? Because they know how to small-talk and ask questions to you that get you chatting it up, and before you know it your haircut is over and you've discovered that you need a career shift, you want to go to a counselor to resolve some marital issues, and that your boss is an even bigger a**hole than you previously thought. The questions asked are sometimes similar to the way a life coach asks them - open-ended questions that get to the heart of what matters. 
 
One interesting thing is that you are talking to the mirror and usually looking at yourself, not the hairstylist. Therefore, there is a sense of ease and comfort to just talking and believing that someone is listening. It's not responses that you are looking for, instead it's simply an open space to talk and be heard, similar to if you were talking in the mirror which brings me to another strategy to practice small talk, or even coach yourself to see what comes out.  You can even keep a notepad by the mirror to jot down a few thoughts. 
 
Speaking of thoughts and questions, there is an incredible book written by Tim Hansen that gives 150 deep, powerful questions that I highly recommend taking a look at because they will give you insight into your life similar to the way a hairstylist or life coach would. You can even take some of the questions you like and use them at your next small-talk venture. It can often be seen as a therapeutic unleashing session. For more information on this Powerful Question book, click here.
In this next section, you will be given strategies for answering the five most-common small talk questions that you need to have answers to. You will be given simple techniques that will separate you from 95% of the population. 











Chapter 4: The 5 Most Important Questions You Need To Answer 
Now (with your recorder on) answer these 5 common small talk questions as if you were talking to Bob or Jessica (or a character you created).

What is your name?
Where are you from?
What do you do?
Who are you here with?
What do you do for fun?

After you've answered, and recorded all the questions, play it back and see how you feel about the way it sounds. Pay close attention to your voice. How did it sound? If you could put an image to your voice, what would it look like? Did you talk too fast (or slow)? Keep these thoughts in mind for the next section because you will learn how you can adjust your voice to sound the way you want it to sound.
Do this task one more time and add these simple strategies to each of your answers.
 
Where are you from?
Add something unique, or informative about your city when answering this. For example, don't just say, "I'm from Fresno." Say, "I'm from Fresno, the city where raisins were first founded, as well as one of the largest blues music festivals in the nation." 
This opens the door for something interesting to talk about and the listener will be much more likely to remember who you are by associating you with those unique facts.
 
What do you do?
If you give short one or two word answers, it is time for that to change today. For example if you are a computer programmer, instead of saying, "I'm a computer programmer", you can say something that the general population can relate to such as "I create computer programs to make it easier for children to learn a foreign language" (or whatever niche you work with). The key is to be specific to whom you are helping, and how you are helping them. 
By doing this, you will be speaking the same language so that the listener can understand what it is that you spend a majority of your hours doing. If you had just said, "I'm a computer programmer," the response you'd receive will be most likely negative, only because most people do not understand what a computer programmer is or does, not because their nose is too high up in the air to even acknowledge it. 
So go ahead and take a few minutes to create a new sentence or two of what you do. 

Who do you help?
How are you helping them? 

 
Who are you here with or How do you know each other?
If you are with someone, simply introduce the person and give a unique fact about him or her. For example, "This is Jerry. He's been all over the world and just got back from Africa last week." Or "This is Sally. She works with students with disabilities, and won the teacher of the month award two months in a row."
It is key to say something unique about the person you are with because it makes the other person look good (and they will appreciate it) and you'll sound like a humble person who people want to connect with. If you don't know much about the person you are with - no problem - ask them to tell you something unique about them.
 
What do you do for fun?
Simply come up with a few things that you enjoy doing in your free time. Whether it's golf, catching the latest flick, or meeting new people in coffee shops, make it sound interesting so that people can understand what you do for fun. When answering this question, it is key to ask yourself "Why do I enjoy doing this?"
For example, why do you play golf? Therefore, instead of just saying "golf" you can say something to help the listener understand why you play golf. You could say, "I like hitting the golf ball around with a few friends. It's good exercise, great to be outside, and I'm playing in the local tournament this July." 
By adding these 5 small-talk tips to your bag of conversation skills, you will be ahead of 99% of people out there.
Once you have added the new strategies, go ahead and record your responses to the questions again. Play it back and see how you sound. 
The Tone
A person's tone of voice can either make or break the first few seconds of your small talk initiation. Therefore it is important to get your voice where you want it in order to display passion, enthusiasm, and confidence in yourself - which will be discussed next section. 
Take note of what you like and don't like. Pay attention to your voice and the way it sounds. If there is anything you'd like to change about it, then it is time for you to do something about it.
Maybe you have a strong accent, or maybe you feel your voice is too high or too low, or you have a lisp that you don't like. Or maybe you're a visual person and you don't have enough time to describe everything you see in which case you speak too fast and it is difficult for others to understand you. Each of these limiting beliefs will negatively affect your confidence in your ability to communicate, and will affect the way people respond to you. 
 
Chapter 5: The Small Talk Skills That Will Set You Apart From Other Humans 
1. Listening skills are in great demand.
Listening is hand-down, no questions asked, one of the toughest things to do. Why? Because it takes genuine effort, and most people would choose simplicity over difficult tasks. Therefore, since it takes less effort to say what's on your mind, or what's bothering you, or how awesome you are, most people choose to talk rather than listen. 
However, if you choose to be one of the rarities who genuinely listen and are curious about people, you will be a hit. You will be amazed at how many strangers want to keep chatting it up with you once you initiate a conversation. Once the strangers around you realize that you are one of those "aliens" who actually listen, you'll be shocked at how many people like you and want to be your friend - you may even get invited over for dinner. 
Another reason why listening is challenging for us is because of all the distractions that the tech-geniuses have created. Mark Zuckerberg, Bill Gates, Steve Jobs have created these brilliant little things such as Facebook, Computers, and iPhones that can easily be one of the biggest distractions and nuisances today. Some people are actually addicted to their Smart Phone (http://www.webmd.com/balance/guide/addicted-your-smartphone-what-to-do). The point being that when participating in small talk (especially with someone new); it is imperative to turn off all distractions, and turn on your ears, eyes, and intuition.
* Challenge: Just for fun, the next time you initiate a conversation, and begin small talk, try limiting the word "I" from your vocabulary. I like the "I:You" ratio to be 1:3. Don't talk about yourself at all. Give your mind permission to be totally silent and just be completely curious and amazed at the person standing right in front of you. I like the formula of first ask a question out of curiosity, then have a small response (not more than 30 seconds - 1 min), and ask another question because you are curious about the person you've chosen to spend your time talking to.
As I've mentioned previously, it is key to leave all your previous and future thoughts in front of the door before entering a room. This will allow you to be in the present moment and let your mind flow, instead of getting anxious about the future, or stressed-out about the past. If this is new to you, or you haven't mastered it yet, take a look at my Bestseller, How to Live in the Present Moment.  You'll get 6 steps that will show you how to easily access the present moment.
One of the greatest gifts we can give to others is our ears, eyes, and heart for listening; to show that we genuinely understand, and are acknowledging the beautiful human being standing right in front of you. You may even begin to notice how quickly people will fall in love with you, by simply listening and understanding.
 
2. Not too fast, not too slow. Right the middle.
Talking at a rapid pace often makes the listener feel rushed. You may even notice that the listener didn't catch what you were saying due to your ability to "rap" what you're saying. In addition, it will give off the impression that you are nervous and unsure of what you're talking about. 
Whereas, if you talk too slowly it can bore the listener, and he or she will begin zoning out and thinking about how amazing it would feel to simply lie in bed and pass out. On the other hand, you might notice the listener getting distracted and looking around the room or glancing at his watch because he's feeling impatient and ready to see who else is out there. 
Of course it varies from listener to listener, but the simple solution is to start at a moderate pace so that the listener can hear and understand your words, and not feel bored. Then as you get a feel for the other person's voice speed, it is best to match their speed. Match it for a minute of so, and a mutual comfort will be established. In addition, matching voice speeds builds a faster and stronger connection, as well as a sense of trust.
 
3. Be enthusiastic and use intonations.
Monotone is boring. Have you ever been in a classroom where you had to listen to a monotone (boring) teacher lecture every class and it took every last amount of energy to stay awake? Despite the fact that the instructor might be Einstein intelligent, this teacher could not draw the listeners in due to her lack of enthusiasm for the subject. 
Even though the speaker may be intelligent and passionate about the subject, if what is going on in the inside doesn't show on the outside, listeners will not be entertained. If someone can bring a sharp level of enthusiasm and excitement to a topic being discussed, it brings a rainbow of colors to a person's words instead of just the ordinary black and white text. I am not saying you need to be enthusiastic the whole time, just sprinkle bits of enthusiasm throughout your story to keep the listener's entertained. If you want more of an explanation on how to be enthusiastic, or how to turn any "boring" story into an "amazing and unforgettable" one, take a look at The Storytelling Method.
Emotion is like the colors, and the black and white are the words. People want to feel emotion because that is the spice of life, and if you are able to give an emotional response, then what you are discussing will be remembered by your listeners. 
Passion draws enthusiasm, which is why it is important to speak of something you are passionate about, and if you aren't passionate about the subject then find a smidge of something your passionate about when you speak, and focus on it because we often need reminders of our end-goals to stay motivated. For instance, if you're teaching a class on theatre arts, and you get to the subject of Shakespeare (which you detest due to the unusual word structure), yet you like the feather hats that one of the characters wears in the play, then use that feather as a reminder, something that makes you smile. Or maybe you like the name "Puck" who is one of the main characters in Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream" - so you keep a hockey puck or write down the name on a piece of paper next to you - and whenever you look at it you smile. It might feel funny, silly or strange at first, yet you will begin to see how fun, energizing, and beneficial this strategy is. 
Another strategy to build enthusiasm is to reframe it, and attach it to the perspective of something you like - and not only like, but love! Something you have a burning desire for because passion brings enthusiasm, and enthusiasm brings excitement, which brings better listeners. Take a look at it from another perspective, the bigger picture to see who, or what else is there. For instance, maybe you aren't passionate about going to new places and meeting new people, however you love and have a burning desire to help others, which you use to stay excited.
Or maybe you aren't passionate about talking about roller coasters but your mom (who you dearly love) absolutely loves roller coasters, so to bring more enthusiasm you can try imagining how excited your mom would be on the roller coaster, with her hands in the sky waving holding a peace sign from above, or her in the back corner of your image flipping you the bird to add humor and excitement to the image. By doing this, you'll notice a shift in your voice when you are telling your story. 
To begin with enthusiasm, start by putting an up and down tone in your speech, almost like your voice is on a baby rollercoaster. In the comfort of your own home, you can even act like you are an actor or singer getting ready for a performance. You can train your voice by utilizing "voice muscles" to expand the range of your voice. Here is a video for opening you're voice: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q5hS7eukUbQ
All in all, enthusiasm is attractive, and will draw listeners in. If you want to be heard, and remembered, be enthusiastic. There are plenty of more examples at: https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=how+to+sound+enthusiastic
 
4. Pro-noun-ci-ate Your Words
DO NOT MUMBLE. People do not like having to say, "What?" or "I'm sorry, could you repeat that?" or "Pardon?" or "Huh?" You get the point. And if the listener has to say it more than a few times, he or she might begin to feel slightly annoyed and thoughts will race across the listeners' mind thinking something is wrong with them, or question whether they should get their hearing checked, when the reality is that the speaker was mumbling. Therefore, you must enunciate your words audibly so that each syllable is crystal clear. If people keep saying "huh?" then it is time to think, "e-nun-ci-ate" because you are in the process of mumbling words.
Speaking in a room full of people means that there will be eyes glancing at you, judging you based on your appearance; there will be ears subtly listening to you, ready to criticize your words, tone of voice, accent, and speed (all of which influence your voice pronunciation), whether you like it or not. Be sure that you know how to pronounce every word, especially if you have an accent. You don't want someone thinking that you said, "Where's the douche?" when you really meant to say, "Where's the juice?" Or thinking you said, "french flies," when you really meant "french fries."
In the next chapter, I will cover pronunciation strategies so that you can get your voice how you want it, to boost your confidence when speaking to strangers. 
 
5. Remember to turn up (or down) the volume.
I am not sexist to any degree. However, speaking from experience in starting thousands of small talk interactions, I've noticed that if men have a slightly louder volume than the group when entering a conversation, he will be more accepted. Whereas, when he has a quieter voice, he probably won't even be seen or heard - unless he's extremely tall, or extremely handsome - because his presence is not strong enough. There is nothing significant that draws people to want to listen.
Whereas for females, it is more accepted if they have a slightly softer voice than the group when first approaching because a female presence will be more noticed than a man's. Men, by nature, will notice and women will be more accepting of females entering a conversation than a man. If she begins small talk with a louder voice, she is often seen as an overly aggressive dominating  figure, and will be less accepted (especially by other women). 
 
6. Only use words you understand.
If you are unsure of a word's meaning, then do not use it. It's simple. If you say a word because you want to look smart, and don't understand the meaning or how to use it, it will backfire. People will get distracted from what you were talking about and often get stuck on that word thinking, "Why did she use that word? Or does she know what that word means? Or I need to "Google" the definition of that word because I swear it means something else." Make it easier for the listener to stay focused, attentive, and use words that you know.
Lastly, if you don't know the meaning of a word, resist using it, stick it in the back of your mind, and "Google" the definition of it after the conversation.
Going back to the main topic - your voice. If you don't like something about your voice, it is up to you do something about it. You can always hire a voice coach or speech therapist, or if you want to save some cash, you can improve it yourself. Below is a strategy that has worked many people, including myself.
1. Record your voice  
2. Listen to it and take note of what you want to change
3. Record your voice again 
4. Listen again, and again take note of what you want to change
5. Take a break. 
6. Repeat the process for 30 minutes in the morning, and 30 minutes at night for 30 days.
7. Look back in one month and see the incredible progress you've made. If it still isn't where you want it, continue the steps until it is. 
You will begin to see a difference in the way people respond to you, and you'll feel much more confident when approaching strangers for small talk. 
 











Chapter 6: The 10 Powerful Beliefs That Will Let You Lead Any Conversation
 
It is one thing to think an interaction might be successful; and another thing to believe it will be successful. Therefore, here are 10 powerful beliefs and actions you can immediately implement to increase your confidence and success when making small talk. 
 
The more you apply them to social situations, the more you will see how effective each of these beliefs can be. At first it may feel uncomfortable, but that is just part of the learning process and the more you do it, the more natural it will become.
 
Before entering a small talk situation, give yourself five minutes to read these beliefs to yourself. It has even more of an impact if you read them aloud to yourself, as well as truly feel and believe each of these to be true. 
 
You can even put each of these beliefs in your Smart Phone or organizer as a reminder.
 
Belief 1: I feel awesome.
Take a few deep breaths, shake your body (do a little dance), and then relax. Next, think of a funny thought or something that makes you smile to get into a friendly, happy state of mind. For example, think of that time you saw the Chihuahua walking in the park with a cute pink little ballerina dress. Or that time you saw Uncle Joey get hit in the face with a whipped cream pie. Or that time when your brother tried to stuff as many grapes as possible behind his upper lip and tried to carry on a conversation - recollect something in your life that makes you smile. 
Smile and feel into it for a few seconds before initiating small talk. 
 
Belief 2: I am friendly, open-minded, and people want to meet me. 
People want to talk to friendly and happy people, such as yourself. They are always more accepting of your initial approach if you can give off a relaxed, friendly, happy vibe. 
One of the worst things to do when making small talk is to immediately pass judgment, or make assumptions without truly understanding the other person. For example: 

If a man has an unkempt and wrinkled shirt, don't automatically assume that he's sloppy and careless. Maybe he woke up late that morning, or was running late because he had to drop his kids off at school instead of his wife (who usually does) because she got sick, or any number of reasons. You don't know.


Or just because a person is anoxerically-looking skinny, giving you an "ew" feeling when you first glance at her, that doesn't mean she has anorexia, maybe she has an overactive thyroid, which makes it extremely difficult to gain weight. She might be the most beautiful human being you've met all week. 


Or the man standing alone in the room, not engaging in conversation at first may not have many conversation or social skills (because he hasn't read The Small Talk Method, Storytelling Method or Conversation Method), but is the fastest typer you've ever seen, and is exactly the person you need for your business. 

The point is that these people might be exactly who you are looking for, yet if judgment is passed too soon, you will never find out because they were already crossed off the list due to appearance. 
You do not have to initiate conversation or spend heaps of time talking to everyone in sight, but everyone deserves an opportunity to be listened to and understood so that you can determine if you want him or her to be part of your life. However, after 5 minutes of tossing words back and forth, you should know if this is a person you want to continue small talking with and possibly add to your life, or if you want to move on. 
 
Eyes Don't Lie
Your eyes can be a weapon used for or against you. They give away your intention and mood. They reveal the truth behind your words. For example, love is an emotion that you can see through the eyes. When someone is in love with someone, you can see it in the eyes, and feel it. The same goes with when two people are attracted to each other, they can both feel it with the glistening of each others eyes, and then a flush of excitement runs through the body resulting in some form of a smile on the face. 
 
The reality is that the expression in your eyes will give you away. They are like the headlights into peoples' emotions. The information given through the eyes brings a whole new level to relationships and understanding humans. For example, the eyes will show the excitement of seeing a friend for the first time in two years, the genuine love for a couple on their wedding day, the sexual sparks when someone is turned on, or embarrassment from speaking in front of a large crowd. You name it, and the eyes will show it. But, first you must be aware of it. 
 
The interesting thing is that many people are not aware of how much the eyes give away. It is something that can be improved upon and after you master it, many people will even think you have special psychic or mind-reading abilities. For more information on what eyes are really saying, and how to detect lies based on eye movements, take a look at The Power of NLP.
 
Here is a game you can use to strengthen your emotional radar.
 
 
Emotion Reading Game
First, find someone you are comfortable with - possibly a good friend, spouse, or if you're feeling brave, go ahead and ask a stranger. It's fun and takes about 5 or 10 minutes (or as long as you feel comfortable). 
 
First, sit about 4 feet across from the other person facing each other. Look into each others' eyes. One person will be the emotion guesser, and the other person will just sit there and either let his or her mind flow with thoughts, or think of specific emotions that ignite a variety of emotions. At first, you may notice emotions such as embarrassment, excitement, confusion, happiness, and nervousness - to name a few. Then the "emotion guesser" will try to read or feel how the other person is feeling. 
 
As soon as you see a shift in the other person's eyes (due to an emotion-shift) be sure to call the emotion out. And of course, the more you practice, the better you will get. 
 
 
Feeling Fearful to Feeling Excited
As previously mentioned, thoughts are the primary thing that can control emotions - similar to a roller coaster. Some peoples' roller coaster is like a death-defying coaster, which gives most people an eerie feeling in the stomach when glancing at it; while other people's roller coasters are like the kiddie roller coaster at a small amusement park. 
 
Thoughts control emotions. Therefore it is possible to take a fearful emotion and transform it into an excited, happy emotion. For example, let's say you are in a quiet, non-social mood - similar to the one when you don't want to talk to anyone mainly because you are afraid you don't have anything to say, and after you approach someone there will be that awkward silence. This is only a thought you have that is creating fear inside your body. 
 
Where is this fear? Is it in your stomach, your chest, your spine, your feet - where it is? Touch this area, and keep your hand on it. Next, think of a time when you met someone new because you were brave and initiated a conversation with him or her. It could be something as simple as saying "Hi," or "How are you?" and then something beautiful formed between you two. For the purpose of this example, think of how it felt after you initiated the conversation and think of how exciting it felt once you connected with this special person. This is how relationships are formed, and everyone in the world has had success as well as failures when initiating small talk. 
 
By tossing this fear out the window and transforming it into excitement simply with the power of thought, it will show all over your face and through your voice. Once you grasp this technique, it will show in your eyes, which have proven to be the gateway into a person's mind. 
 
With small talk, it is important to transform all the signs of nervousness and fear of rejection into excitement and truly believe that people want to meet you, which should be no problem after implementing these beliefs. First impressions last and this simple technique of manifesting excitement out of fear is one that will turn first impressions into gold.
 
Eye Contact
We've all heard it in our 9th grade speech class when we had to give a presentation based on "Someone We Admire"; and we end up only receiving a B instead of an A because we weren't making eye contact despite the fact that we gave amazing examples that made the audience both smile and tear up out of happiness. The point being to look people directly into their eyes when communicating. 
Naturally, some people feel uncomfortable making direct eye contact, especially when there is a superior/inferior mentality, or a strong sexual energy between two people. However, looking at people indicates that you want to be trusted and that you are willing to hear what the other person wants to tell you. Even if a person isn't telling the truth, people will be more likely to believe it because of the eye contact. Although, with practice and knowing NLP techniques, there are simple ways to detect a lie. For more information, take a look at The Power of NLP, which explains Eye-Accessing Cues and much more to detect lies and read body language. 
Eye contact can be overbearing for some. If making eye contact is challenging for you, then instead of looking directly into the other persons' eyes (which can make people nervous and lose their train of thought), look at the middle point between their eyebrows; they won't even notice that you aren't looking directly in their eyes. 
Another strategy is to imagine that there is a letter "T" on the face of the person. The horizontal bar on the letter is the forehead and the vertical line is the nose. Just scan the letter "T."
Interestingly enough, some people tend to look at a person's lips instead of the eyes when communicating. This actually gives off the impression that you are attracted to the other person, and that you may even want to kiss him or her. Therefore, if that is not your intention, be aware of what you are looking at when you talk to people, and adjust it accordingly. 
 
 
Belief 3: I am confident, successful, and fun.
Body language is a vital aspect in communicating with other people. Body language is like the icing on the cake to give it the ultimate deliciousness. You can have cake without icing (or toppings), and few will remember it; just as you can speak incredible words of wisdom, however few will remember it without excellent body language.
 
For example, if you are saying an incredible statement about how you've discovered the cure for cancer but you have slumped shoulders, crossed arms, and your body is not facing the other person, it will likely come off as bullshit. Imagine if you had actually discovered the cure for cancer and you wanted to share it with a colleague. When speaking your shoulders were back (displaying confidence), arms at your sides (displaying that you're interested in sharing this information), and your body was facing them (to show that you know what you're talking about and that it's important). See the difference?
 
The funny thing is that most people know the importance of having great body language, yet 90% of people fail to maximize it - so be one of those 10% who maximize body language to be remembered. 
 
 
Quick Tips For Body Language 
I won't get into too much detail here about body language. However, there are some common mistakes that need to be touched on. You will see people "break" these simple body language rules whenever you are in a social setting. After learning them, you might even laugh to yourself when you see others "breaking these rules" and begin to notice patterns of why people do not easily get accepted when starting small-talk. Therefore, it is necessary to be aware of your body when making small talk to give off the impression you want. 
 

Never cross your arms or clench your fists unless you're looking for a fight. You will appear very closed off, and anti-social. Some may even think that you are annoyed and looking to fight. Instead, it's best to keep your arms at your side with open hands. The more open you are (with your arms, hands, and stance) the more approachable and confident you'll appear. 

 
Some people speak with their hands - especially the Italian culture - and that is great because it can add emphasis to what you are saying. However, be aware if it is distracting from your words. If you begin to notice the listener repetitively looking at your hands (instead of your eyes), it's probably a sign that your mighty hands are taking away from what you are saying. 
 

Be genuine and real. For real.

A wise man by the name of Napoleon Hill stated, "It sometimes brings greater courage to be truthful, regardless of what those who do not understand may think or say." This rings true with many people, including myself as I have spoken with many people about the subject of understanding. 
Each person on this planet has personality traits that far exceed those of others - we were all created differently. You may be great at empathizing and understanding what a person is going through, and can barely solve the math problem 13 X 9. This doesn't mean you're unintelligent. The reality is that one person may be extremely intelligent and completely unstoppable when it comes to communicating even at a level that some consider her a genius, and be lacking in math skills. 
This is the beauty of being human. This is why we need each other to help one another out. It is impossible to be good at everything, and therefore allow what you are good at to glow within the darkness unless you bring it to the surface. At the same time, be vulnerable and realistic if you aren't good at something too. It will allow people to be more open, vulnerable, and get to the heart of what matters. 
Be genuine and honest about your strengths and weaknesses. It is key to know yourself, accept it, and be real about who you are. Do not pretend that you know something which you actually don't know just to fit in. It is no problem if you don't know or don't understand something; simply ask for clarification so that everyone can be on the same page.
 
Socially Acceptable Guidelines:

The Greeting: When approaching someone you are close with, you can sometimes disregard the greeting part. For someone you do not know, you must act formally and greet them with a "Hi," "Hey," "Good Morning," or something of that nature.  

Your greeting will depend on the person's background. For instance, if he is a boss of the company you are applying for, you should greet him formally and offer a handshake. Maintain appropriate actions for different circumstances. Another example is a meeting with a person who is Korean. The way of respecting other people is done by bowing 90 degrees. You could adjust your greeting with a bow since you are respecting his culture. Be prepared to adjust your greeting for the culture and type of gathering.
 
 

Body Direct: Face your body almost directly parallel to the person you are talking to and do not look around, at your watch, or cell phone.

 

Straight In The Eyes: Look people straight in their eyes. This is to show you are telling the truth and upholding honor. Even though other people sometimes divert their eyes when you make eye contact, because eye contact can bring out shyness or an uncomfortable feeling; also staring at someone for lengthy periods of time can be considered "rude" so there is a fine line between looking at someone too long and not long enough, which will come with practice. Be aware of your eyes and see what works for you.

 

Open-up: Keep an open body language. Keep your arms at your sides (and not stiff, but relaxed) because you will appear more confident, and if your body language is displaying confidence then others will treat you with better which will naturally cause you to be more confident. 

If you are holding a drink, be sure to keep it at your side and not hold it across your chest because that is a barrier between you and the other person. You want to be able to connect (or feel if there's a connection) between you and the other person as quickly and effectively as possible to decide if you want to keep talking to this individual. Therefore, keep it chest to chest or in other words, just keep your arms at your sides. 
 

Recognize Non-Verbals: 

 
Over time, you will be able to recognize and know how to respond based on the other person's reactions. For instance, you'll be able to recognize when a person is using body language to state that they are uncomfortable talking about what your cat brought to your front door last night; or disinterested in the fact that you got drunk at a bar last night. The listener will either consciously or subconsciously turn their body away from you, or get distracted and start looking at the cell phone or glancing at their watch to subtly tell you, "If you don't change the subject fast, I'm out of here!" After recognizing this, you can choose your next statements wisely to either continue the current conversation or shift to another topic.
 
 
Belief 4: I am in the present moment.
It is just you and the person you chose to talk to. Create that world. Imagine a bubble around you and the other person you chose to talk to. The surrounding people and external noises do not exist.  This belief is the gateway to make an incredible first impression and give the person the honor of feeling heard. 
Everyone loves to feel heard and listened to. By showing that you have the ability to listen, your value will automatically be raised in this person's eyes.

Concentrate on one task at a time.

Not everyone is good at multitasking. When you try to do things at the same time, your attention will be divided. If you are talking to someone, then you might not hear some important details if you are looking at your cell phone or thinking about drama that happened at work. 
When conversing, whether it is on the phone or in person, the person in front of you deserves to have your full attention or else you are both wasting each other's time. Therefore, avoid looking at your phone to check a text or email, or accept a call. The mobile device can wait. Also, resist checking your watch (even if it's out of habit) because each of these display that you have more important things to do then interact with the human in front of your face. 
As mentioned previously, this person will appreciate that you made the person feel special and important by completely listening. Interestingly enough this will make each conversation better because you will have a clear understanding of whether or not you want to add this person to your life. 
 
Belief 5: I am positive and exert positive energy.

People want to talk to people who make them feel good. Keeping a positive state of mind is a powerful strategy for creating small talk. If you are in a bad or negative mood, consider postponing small talk for a few hours until you are feeling in a better mood. If you are noticing your mood and thoughts tend to be negative, I suggest taking a look at Positivity, which will give you simple strategies to be in a good mood everyday. 

 
Bring your topics of conversation in a light, blissful and positive manner, pressure free. Instead of saying cannot, use can. Instead of saying bad, say not good; instead of saying hate, say didn't like. Instead of saying ugly, say not pretty (or not good-looking). You get the point. If you keep saying negative things, the person will be turned off and leave (or use distractions to leave - such as cell phone, bathroom, or looking around the room). It is the words you use that create internal dialogue for yourself that directly affects the way you feel about yourself and the world around you.
 
Even if the person isn't nice to you, it's no big deal because 99% of the time it has nothing to do with you, so remain unaffected. Maybe the person you started talking to was having a rough morning after being chased by a dog and darting off in his car to get away only to find out that his tire was flat causing him to be an hour late to work and a harsh scolding by his boss. This may be a little extreme, but who knows, right? The point is to stay nice and pleasant until the conversation ends. 
In uncomfortable situations, it is best to use negative body language to get out of a conversation. For example, turn your body so it is not directly facing the other person. Glance at your watch and say, "I apologize, but I need to go to ______(any place - the bathroom, a meeting, an appointment). It was nice to meet you."
 
 











Belief 6: I know what to say and when to say it.
The Top Conversation Topics of All Time
 
When talking to someone you do not know personally, you must know the topics that always work in a conversation. So, even if you don't know anything about the person, you can still wedge your way in and begin a successful conversation. Here are the ten conversation topics that always work:
 

Psychology

The fascinating subject of the human mind that revolves around theories or reasons behind the way we as humans, are programmed to think. We are all eager to know ourselves and other people better. It brings a level of camaraderie and understanding between people and cultures. If you are a naturally curious person and enjoy psychology, gather up a few curious questions and program them in your mind to ask in small talk situations. If you want a list of excellent questions, take a look at 150 Powerful Questions by Tim Hansen.
 

Traveling

Many people love to travel and most people enjoy hearing stories about peoples' travelling adventures. Think of the last few times you've traveled, where it was, who was there, and one or two specific scenarios that happened during this adventure. If you don't already have a travelling story, try creating one with the 10 Steps in the Storytelling Method because travelling stories are great to have in your back-pocket and can tell a lot about your awesome personality in a matter of one or two minutes. 
 

Movies

Most people have watched a movie, except for those who live in a cave. This is a very broad topic. There are a lot of great movies from all over the world. Talking about your favorite movie can lead to a topic about the characters and setting of the film, or how you can relate your own life to scenes in the movie. It is an excellent topic for building rapport and a feeling of connection when you've both seen the same movie and you both can recall lines and/or scenes in the film.
 

Sex (Gender)

Men and women will always be interested in talking about their similarities and differences. Some examples of things that you can ask to spark conversation are: 


"What's the best way to know if someone is interested in me?" 
"Who do you think is funnier - men or women - why?", 
"What's the best way to approach a beautiful woman?" 
"Is it socially acceptable for a woman to approach a man she's attracted to?" 
"How long should I wait to call a woman after she's given me her phone number?" 


These are examples of what could be said. I suggest creating questions on your own that you genuinely want to know the answer to, and have fun with it. 
Of course, as mentioned earlier, you always want to start out with a pre-opener such as a "Hey!" or "Hi."
 

Hobby

All people have a wide scope of hobbies and people enjoy talking about what they love. For example, biking, swimming, walking, reading, yoga, sports, etc.; and if you have a similar interest it is one of the strongest ways to connect and build a friendship. Even if you are simply curious about a person's hobby and want to listen to what she is saying, it can branch into many other amazing conversations. 
This is one of the most common topics you can ask when you are just starting to know a person. This is a perfect topic for you to discover something new about him. Simply ask, "What do you do for fun?" Then you can ask for recommendations or opinions, which most people will happily offer. 
You could talk about the places you prefer to go when you have free time. For instance: bars, restaurants, coffee shops, clubs, inns, etc. You could also suggest some place to her. Maybe, you want to ask her for another get together at your favorite place.
 

Food

Everyone has that certain food that they absolutely love - that food that makes a persons' mouth water when they begin imagining the look and taste, and even texture as they take that first bite. This is a great topic surrounding recommendations. You can ask questions such as: "What's the best pizza place around here?" "Do you know any good seafood places around here?" or "Do you have any recommendations for a good Italian restaurant?" or "Have you tried the new Sushi Restaurant on 6th Street?"
 

Career

This topic can help to identify what someone is passionate about. Questions surrounding this will allow you to understand why a person chose a particular career, or what motivates them to work - is it to pay the bills, for personal satisfaction, because they love it, or because they love to help people? It's fun to learn about people and what drives people to get into particular careers. I like to ask, "I'm curious about you and your career. What made you want to be a ________?"
 

Sports

Even though you may not even be a sports fan, having a basic knowledge of sports and trending sporting teams, players, and events will take you a long way (especially with men). Sports are one of the easiest ways to have a small talk conversation and build a connection at rapid speed. Just make sure you know what you're talking about. All it takes is 5 to 10 minutes a day, reading some sports news, and you'll be up-to-date, ready to engage in sport conversations. 
 

News

It is good to stay informed with what is going on in the world, as it is a great conversation topic, especially because a good amount of the population keeps up with the news. 
You might start a conversation like, "Did you hear about.....?" "Can you believe that ........... happened?" or "What do you think about ........?"
 
Belief 7: I genuinely like people and believe that everyone has good intentions.
This belief brings a feeling of peace and ease to conversations. The pressure drops a level or two knowing the person in front of you isn't out to get you, out to embarrass you, or reject you. If for example, you go up to someone and you get shut down for some reason, then it's your responsibility to look at the situation and determine what went wrong. If you get shut down more often than not, I suggest reviewing the sections on body language and conversational openers. Once you understand and can implement the strategies throughout this book, you should be able to have a 95-99% success rate for starting conversations.  
People have good intentions. Just because you perceive something as an insult, doesn't mean the other person was intentionally trying to hurt you. If it is hurtful, it is usually about the other person and usually based on a lack of understanding. People will bring others down based on their own insecurities to make themselves feel temporarily better, as that is the only way they know and understand how to feel better. Therefore, it was good for the other person because it made them feel good. This is a much deeper topic and I go into much more detail in The Power of NLP, which covers Neuroliguistic Programming and how to gain power over thoughts.
 
Belief 8: I can relate to anybody, and everybody
Everybody can relate to everyone in some way. Comfort can be built faster with genuine commonalities. I say genuine because they need to be honest common interests or else it will come back to bite you when the person discovers the you were being dishonest just to establish a connection. 
You do not have to both be ardent fans of the band Grateful Dead to establish common ground. Stating a relevant topic that both of you had experienced can start a small talk. For instance, if there were a hurricane recently, you could discuss how disastrous the calamity was. You should establish a connection between you and the other person.
After answering questions, it is better to let the other person speak. Do not worry if there is a long pause during the conversation. Once you begin asking questions again be sure they are relevant questions. This will enable both of you to be on the same page. Of course, once a topic dies out, then switch to another one (or even jump from thread to thread - or topic to topic - which tends to keep conversations more exciting). 
There are hundreds of conversation topics to choose from. Remember that the solution to cure a dull conversation is to start a new topic. Simply be aware of the galore of topics you can talk about and be able to draw it up and shoot at the right time. 
 
Belief 9: I am my best self 
Let's face it. You are who you are. I am who I am. The person in front of you is who he or she is. We can't be someone else so you might as well be your best self. Show your vulnerabilities and be human. We all feel a wide range of emotions, from fear to excitement - and what makes us different is the amount we feel those emotions, the intensity of them, and the experiences that trigger those emotions. For example, the thought of small talk makes some people cringe and want to curl up into a ball and hide, whereas other people get small doses of adrenaline rush and are excited to meet the next new face. 
That being said, be open and accepting of who you are. If you are one of those people who are totally afraid of small talk, that is great because there are a million other people out there who feel the same way. By showing your vulnerability and willingness to talk about who you are and your personality traits, others will be more willing to open up to you. They may be empathetic with you or feel totally the same way and you will immediately have something in common, which will make your connection even stronger. 
 
Belief 10: I will decide whether this is a person I want to add to my life. 
Let's say you entered a local coffee shop and spotted someone you found attractive, so naturally you want to talk to this person to see what she is about after reading the Conversation Method. 
You opened the conversation with a question that required her advice. "I need your opinion really quick. I'm supposed to be heading up to my cousins tonight but I don't want to have to work with the L.A. traffic, so I was thinking of heading up there tomorrow morning instead.  I just hope she didn't make plans for us tonight. What would you do?" This is great because people like to give advice and offer their opinion. 
In addition, the advice she offered was helpful and made you feel like loads of weight was lifted off your shoulders because you got clear on the best decision for you. Then you transitioned into a light hearted conversation about ice cream because you saw that someone was eating some ice cold creamy ice cream outside which sounded perfect for the hot summer days in Fresno. A period of 5 minutes passes by and you are still all eyes and ears in the conversation. You feel the connection, and decide that this is a person you'd like to add to your life. 
Your mind suddenly switches from the present moment to worrying about the future and how you can get her phone number but want it to feel natural. You don't want to miss this opportunity because you never know what this future relationship could lead to. You suddenly remember reading the Small-Talk Method and know the best ways to ask for a phone number and get it.

"Hey, let me get your phone number. We should totally hang out." (hand her or him your phone so they can enter their phone number)
"Hey I know we would have a lot of fun together. We should grab some ice cream some time. Let me get your phone number. (hand her your phone)"
"Hey we should get together and go skiing (or any other activity from your conversation). I need a new skiing buddy. What's your phone number?"

If you build and feel the connection, all you have to do is ask and you will get the phone number. Although there are exceptions such as: if he has a girlfriend, or you came on too strong (for both men and women) without building a strong enough connection first. Once you feel the connecting point, then it's up to decide if this person you want to invite into your life.
On the other hand, say you were chatting with a woman and learned that she hates dogs, and you love dogs. You might ask her one more question to see if she can gain some points after the points she lost from "hating dogs." So you ask, "Where would you rather travel to - San Francisco or San Diego? She answers San Francisco, and she doesn't just leave it at that. She goes on to state how much she detests San Diego and it's "laid-back beach/surf" lifestyle. You love San Diego and are beginning to feel bits of confusion and anger in your body now for how much she doesn't like it. You decide that this is a red flag and this is not a person that you want to add to your life. 
All you have to do is say, "Hey, I've got to run. It was nice to meet you and it was nice to chat with you." That way you show that you appreciate the time you spent together and for being a friendly human being who was receptive to your opening the conversation. Then, just continue on with your life as you are being selective with whom you want in your life. 
This example was more of a qualification for dating scenario. However, you can use these same strategies anywhere, whether it be in a grocery store, at a business meeting, or a networking event to make friends and build relationships. The next chapter will give a list of locations to meet people to begin forming romantic-relationships, friendships, as well as business and networking purposes.
 
Belief 11: I will remember names and important details about my conversation.
How to Effectively Remember Names
One of the biggest hurdles when meeting new people is the wonderful part where you have to remember a name... "I think it started with a G. Was it Gary? George? Geronimo? Ahhhh." Follow the strategies and this will not be a problem ever again.
The task of recalling names is not easy, unless you know how to do it. If you can't remember the names all of the time, then you should consider improving your listening skills in which I highly recommend a book titled People Skills, which immensely improved my listening skills; as well as improve your ability to being in the present moment. In addition, forgetting names might occur because you are shy, bored, or anxious about the person you are talking to; however improving your listening skills and ability to be in the present moment should be your first steps to improving name recall. 
Let's first talk about reasons why you'd want to remember someone's name so that way it might ignite a little fire so that you can feel the importance of name recall. 

Remembering a person's name is one aspect you need to make friends with them.
It is important because it is a form of acknowledgement, which will allow the other person to feel valued and special. 
Recalling someone's name shows that you find your relationship meaningful. 
Remembering one's name is a sign of being modest and considerate. 
Imaging how unimportant and insignificant you feel when other people forget your name. 

Again, poor listening skills are the most common reason for forgetting names. It often results from not paying enough attention to the person speaking. All you need to do is to give your full attention to the speaker and be in the present moment. If the reason why you can't concentrate is thinking of what to say to that person, then I would recommend looking at the conversation starters in my book The Conversation Method use some of the 150 Powerful Questions from Tim Hansen's eBook.
The best thing to do is memorize or internalize a few lines that you come up with based around your personality and interests. This way you can fire off those lines anytime they can contribute to a conversation. Once they are internalized they will become part of your repertoire of communication skills that will come out naturally without much thought.
If you don't hear someone's name, simply ask again. No big deal. Some people are embarrassed to ask again for someone's name because they don't want to make any mistakes. Was it really a mistake if you didn't hear the person due to their soft voice, a slight accent, or some noise from a woman in the background shuffling to gather some notes she'd taken on how to tell an unforgettable story? No. So just ask again and repeat their name back to them for clarity, and so that you can lock the name in and match it with this persons' face. Here are a few examples of things you can do for name recall:

Repetition is one way to help you remember names. A helpful strategy is to say, "Nice to meet you, John." Give the person a smile to show that you are glad to meet him. During the conversation, repeat the name a couple of times. Like, "Have you tried the new Italian restraunt on 32nd St., John?" Also, you can perform mental repetition to remember the name more quickly. However again, don't get consumed with repeating the name silently in your head because you will miss out on the conversation.

 

Relate the person's name with an object or an animal.


Select an animal or an object that has the same letter with the name of the person. (E.g. "Jen- Jet")'
You can associate it with a word of the same rhyme. E.g. "Kitty - Pretty"
Relate the name with words with having a similar meaning. E.g. "Mike - Mic"
Think of a word which is similar in sound. E.g. "Paul - poll"
Replace the words to remind you of a famous person. E.g. "Miley Fross - Miley Cyrus"

 

See every detail of the person's face.

Remembering a person's name also includes remembering a unique feature in his face so that when you see him for the second time, you could recognize the person easily. Find a unique thing you can remember quickly. For instance, you can put it in your memory that he has a narrow forehead, long hair, short eyebrows, small eyes, a white complexion, and many more. 
For example: "Henry with curly hair," or "Sheryl with a big mouth."

Jot down important details 

People tend to forget things after a few hours, and even a few minutes. If you have a piece of paper, napkin, or cell phone with you, then after the conversation you can jot down the important information so that you will have it the next time you two sit down for a chat. 
After the conversation, take a small note (on paper or in your phone) of the person's name, and a few unique things about them. Write their names and characteristics down so that you can visualize him or her. Write it immediately after you finish your conversation with that person. You can also add the place, time, date and event where you met the person. 
For instance, "John - gray hair, big glasses, likes golf, started engineering company 20 years ago and wants to sell company. Met at Sally's Coffee House." Use this as a reference, and if you review it later that night, you will be much more likely to remember his name next time you see him. 
It will be a very helpful reference point for starting and opening conversation topics the next time you talk on the phone or sit down in person. The person will actually be amazed at what an excellent memory (and listening skills) you have - it is up to you whether or not you want to share your secret. 
A person's memory has only limited capacity. You might forget things if you don't take notes, therefore I encourage you to get in the habit of taking only a few minutes after each conversation to jot down the important points. You'll be amazed at how much of a difference this little strategy will make in your name recall 











Chapter 7: More Questions To Ask & Topics To Avoid
 
Everybody wants to have an interesting personality that separates you from the rest of the crowd. To do this, the first thing you need to be interested and engaged in the conversation as well. Some things you must do for being a good conversationalist is to feed the other person with appetizing questions to get him talking, be an above-average listener, and be able to ask follow-up questions that are related to the topic. Then, you must be able to open up a topic that gets a person's juices flowing. However, keep most of your questions open-ended so that it allows for natural conversation to occur. 
Here are some examples of juicy and thought-provoking open-ended questions:
 

What do you want in life?
What is your purpose?
What do you want more of in your life?
What does fun mean to you? What else?
Is money or job satisfaction more important to you? How come?
How do you believe that money and career are related? How does that apply to your life?
What is holding you back from living your dream?

 
For more questions like these, take a look at Tim Hansens 150 Powerful Questions.
 
 
The Awkward Moment Solutions
 
When talking to someone you do not know, it is common to have an awkward moment of silence or two. To fill the space, and prevent the person from awkwardly saying, "Whelp. See ya later," you can use   one of these strategies.
 
1. Environment: Use the setting to revive the discussion. For instance, "This place has a cool ambiance. It's like we're in Paris. What do you think of it?" or "That is very unique art on the wall. Are you into art?" The point is, if you are feeling at a loss for words, look around your environment and use it to reignite the conversation. 
 
 
2. Compliments: People love compliments. Take the opportunity to compliment the person you are talking to. I am not talking about complimenting the person on their looks; I am talking about complimenting him on his personality, or things you've noticed during your conversation. The only warning is that it may create a temporary awkwardness or silence while the person accepts the compliment, which may feel strange for some, as many people do not know how to receive compliments. The best way to accept a compliment is to smile and say "thank you" to prevent awkwardness, 
 
I like to use "4 seconds of silence," where I say a compliment such as "I really admire that you would practically give everything you had at the time to help a homeless man on the street. It shows your love for helping people." Wait 4 seconds for the compliment to register and for him or her to accept it, then if there is still silence, begin another conversation topic.
 
Topics To Avoid In Small-Talk 
After knowing what topics are best for small talk, it is important to know the topics which must be avoided because it might cause bad blood and put the conversation to an end. Some of these topics will sound obvious, yet they must be touched on. Here are the seven topics that one must avoid in a conversation.

Politics

People have different points of view when it comes to politics. Maybe, you are talking to someone who has been a proud supporter of the politician you despise. Avoid talking about this topic if you do not want the two of you end up debating about politicians.
 

Financial Aspect

It is ill-mannered to ask about someone's financial status and assets. A person's career or business can be an interesting topic of conversation, but never ask about the monetary value behind it. Most people will feel that they being stepped on.
 

Religion

This is a very sensitive topic. People have different beliefs about the Almighty. If you engage with this topic, then you might offend the person you are talking to. 
 

Age

It is usually considered rude if you ask for someone's' age - especially a woman. Although, most people will reveal their age if asked, it is not recommended to do, especially when you first meet someone. 
Anyway, what is the point of asking anyone's age anyway? It is not a big deal. 
What matters is how you feel inside. Do you feel 50, or 25?  If you feel 50, what are you going to do to make yourself feel younger?
 

Gossiping

Gossiping will not win you friends. In fact, gossiping may earn you some enemies.  If, for instance, you hear something from co-worker Betty about how John is stealing money from the business account, it's best to not repeat anything you hear because John did not tell you that, Betty did. 
Maybe co-worker John knows co-worker Betty and wants to tell her all the bad things that were said about her. He might know the person in your gossip personally. Avoid talking behind people's back.
 

Avoid Offensive Jokes

It's best to avoid offensive jokes (sarcasm that makes someone want to hide from the world for at least a few days), even if you are just trying to add a bit of humor to a situation, avoid it because offensive jokes weigh much heavier if a person does not know you. It can immediately plummet or destroy their first impression of you so that you will be remembered as "the jackass who makes offensive jokes", because people will talk. 
If you are insulting to others, you will be seen as negative, and most people do their best to avoid negative people. If you are looking for strategies to develop a positive thought process, take a look at my book titled, Positivity.
Sarcasm is okay if you already know that your listeners enjoy those type of jokes, such as friends and family. Therefore, keep it as a rule to not use sarcastic, potentially offensive jokes. You are not hired to be the comedian and you don't know how the person will respond. 
 

Limit Narrow Subject Matter

It's simple, especially after reading Storytelling Method, to tell an interesting story that will grab the listener's attention. However, if you decide to use narrow subject matter, such as a novel that only you have read, then make your story compelling, entertaining, and interesting - or you will immediately lose the listener's attention. 
 
 
 











Conclusion
Life is the grandest experience and ultimate experiment - and it is your choice on which perspective you choose to approach life. The way I see small talk is similar to opening a new package under the Christmas tree - you have an idea of what will happen (or what it is), yet you aren't 100% sure of what it is or how they will respond until you rip open the package to see what's inside. If you look at life from this perspective, you will always come out on top of the pack because even if you fail, you can applaud yourself because you experimented to see what was possible. Be excited because you never know what adventure your next conversation will bring you. 
 
Small talk is a process that will gain you friends, business partners, networking opportunities, potential romantic pursuits, and the opportunity to advance and become who you desire to be in the world.  As the saying goes, "it's not what you know, it's who you know," so get out there and small talk.
 
 











Recommended Books:

The Storytelling Method: Steps To Maximize A Story And Make It Powerful, Inspiring, And Unforgettable


The Conversation Method: Conversation Skills Made Into Simple Steps
 

How To Live In The Present Moment: Let Go Of The Past & Stop Worrying About The Future
 

Do Talk To Strangers: A Creative, Sexy, and Fun Way To Have Emotionally Stimulating Conversations With Anyone
 

50 Places You Need To See Before You Die: A List Of The Earth's Most Beautiful, Captivating, & Eye-Catching Wonders Of The World
 

The Power of NLP - Attract More Wealth, Better Health, And Improve Relationships


Positivity: A Step Beyond Positive Thinking
 
 

 
Goal Setting: 10 Easy Steps To Keep Motivated & Master Your Personal Goals
 
 

Emotional Intelligence: Understand Emotional Intelligence To Improve Self Management and Increase Your Social Skills 
 

Codependency Gone For Good: How To Stop Worrying, Stop Controlling, & Put Yourself First
 
 











BONUS: Free Books & Special Offers
I want to thank you again for purchasing this book! I would like to give you access to a great service that will e-mail you notifications when we have FREE books available. You will have FREE access to some great titles before they get marked at the normal retail price that everyone else will pay. This is a no strings attached offer simply for being a great customer. Simply click the link below to get started.
 

 
Copyright 2014 by Globalized Healing, LLC - All rights reserved.
 
















