















The Legend of ZERO:
Forgotten
by
Sara King







Copyright
Copyright © 2021
All Rights Reserved
Sara King
No part of this work may be photocopied, scanned, or otherwise reproduced without express written consent (begging) of the author.  For permissions and other requests, email Sara King at characterforce@gmail.com. 
(Don't worry, she's really cool.)
First Printing, 2021
Published by
Character Force Publications







Books in The Legend of ZERO Series:
Listed in General Order to Be Read
(But they're all stand-alones with many years in between, written totally out of order, meaning you can read them completely out of order and it won't matter):
Forging Zero
Proposal of the Forgotten*
Zero Marked (coming April 2022)
Mission Zero (coming Summer 2022)
The Moldy Dead
Zero Recall
The Misadventures of Flea, Agent of Chaos**
Zero's Return
The Scientist, the Rat, and the Assassin
Zero's Redemption (Coming Summer/Fall 2022)
Zero's Legacy (Coming Fall/Winter 2022)
Forgotten
*Exclusively found in the Jeff Hays version of Forging Zero
** To be read after Zero Recall, but before Zero's Redemption.
Other Titles by Sara King:
Chronicles of a Vampire Queen
Alaskan Fang Book 1: The Samurai
Alaskan Fang Book 2: The Barghest
Alaskan Fang Book 3: The Feylord
Alaskan Fang Book 4: The Rain God
Guardians of the First Realm
(Same Alaskan Universe as Chronicles of a Vampire Queen)
Guardians of the First Realm:  Alaskan Fire
Guardians of the First Realm:  Alaskan Fury
Guardians of the First Realm: Alaskan Thunder (coming Summer 2022)
Other Kickass Sara King Series:
Sunny Day, Paranormal Badass:  Sunny with a Chance of Monsters
Millennium Potion:  Wings of Retribution
Outer Bounds:  Fortune's Rising
Outer Bounds: Fortune's Folly
Outer Bounds:  Children of Fortune (Coming Fall 2022)
Terms of Mercy:  To the Princess Bound
Aulds of the Spyre: Form and Function







Disclaimer
(a.k.a. If You Don't Realize This Is A Work Of Fiction, Please Go Find Something Else To Do)
So you're about to read about aliens, an apocalypse, mind-control, and life on other planets.  In case you're still confused, yes, this book is a complete work of fiction.  Nobody contained within these pages actually exists.  If there are any similarities between the people or places of The Legend of ZERO and the people or places of Good Ol' Planet Earth, you've just gotta trust me.  It's not real, people.  Really.  Yet.
If you've already read this book and want to join my minion army, sign up for my mailing list!  It's the best way to keep up-to-date on new releases, beta-reading opportunities, collector's editions, discounts, and much more!







Table of Contents
Copyright
Books in The Legend of ZERO Series:
Disclaimer
Table of Contents
Dedication
CHAPTER 1: The Minder and the Maker
CHAPTER 2: Traveling Companions
CHAPTER 3: The Grand Master
CHAPTER 4: Sky's Plan
CHAPTER 5: Earth's Representative
CHAPTER 6: Brainwashed
CHAPTER 7: Escape
CHAPTER 8: Rri'jan's Gambit
CHAPTER 9: Failed Plans
CHAPTER 10: One Week
CHAPTER 11: The Trith
CHAPTER 12: Moving the Pieces
CHAPTER 13: Two Minders
CHAPTER 14: Machinations
CHAPTER 15: The Message
CHAPTER 16: Forgotten's Reply
CHAPTER 17: Forgotten's Experiment
CHAPTER 18: Peacemakers
CHAPTER 19: A Lifestone for Mullich
CHAPTER 20: A Brush with Fire
CHAPTER 21: Sibling Rivalry
CHAPTER 22: Respect
CHAPTER 23: Ruvmestin
CHAPTER 24: Courage
CHAPTER 25: Twice the Fire
CHAPTER 26: Playing God
CHAPTER 27: Politics
CHAPTER 28: Mourning the Dead
CHAPTER 29: The Best Medicine
CHAPTER 30: A Tough Sell
CHAPTER 31: A Takki's Life
CHAPTER 32: Of Gods and Love
CHAPTER 33: Discovery
CHAPTER 34: The Great Ship Robbery
CHAPTER 35: The Vote
CHAPTER 36: Embargoes
CHAPTER 37: Breaking Free
CHAPTER 38: Excess
CHAPTER 39: A Geuji's Goodbye
CHAPTER 40: A Promise Kept
CHAPTER 41: Changes
CHAPTER 42: The New Representative
CHAPTER 43: A New Sky
CHAPTER 44: A Shell Game
CHAPTER 45: A Minor Miscalculation
CHAPTER 46: A Trith's Truth
CHAPTER 47: Mass Movement
CHAPTER 48: Remembering the Forgotten
About the Author
Coming Soon from Sara King
Sneak Peek at Fortune's Rising
Mini Glossary







Dedication
Every once in a while, you run across an extraordinary person who changes your life so immutably for the better that you not only end up a more compassionate, understanding, intellectual, and knowledgeable person because of that meeting, but you ultimately end up on a path so completely distant from the one you'd been on that your past trajectory becomes completely unrecognizable in your current state.  That happened to me in March of 2020.  I was suicidal, in an incredibly dark place, and as a last resort because I knew I was about to do something I would regret, I posted on Facebook I needed someone to talk to because I was about to pull a Robin Williams.  I have incredibly smart fans—incredibly smart—and I knew there were a handful of people amongst my friends' list who might be able to talk me out of what I was convinced I needed to do.  Emotions, persuading, praise, and/or begging wasn't gonna work—it had to be an intellectual that could argue me into the dirt.  And one of those people, a state game warden in Louisiana by the name of Joe Chandler, not only succeeded in talking me out of it, but then talked with me, and kept talking with me, and we built a friendship the likes of which I could have never imagined while wallowing in that darkness alone and despairing in March.  So thank you, Joe.  You badass, you.  You not only saved my life, but you saved the ZERO series and whatever other books I happen to pull out of my ass from here on, as well.  So this one's dedicated to you, man...







CHAPTER 1: The Minder and the Maker
They're coming.  Sky sat up from his silk-clad bed suddenly, a feeling of dread as he scanned the horizon.  No, he realized, Beyond that.  Even further.  Past the sun.
Sky could feel them out there, growing frighteningly closer with each passing second.  Their minds were strange, like nothing he had ever experienced.  Cold, calculating, different.
Outside his bedroom, attendants of Minder Hall continued with the usual sounds of mid-morning, completely unaware of the threat barreling towards them, terrifying and unstoppable.
What do they want?  Sky stretched himself and then he knew.  His skin broke out in goosebumps. 
Finally.
It was time to finish what Joe Dobbs started.
#
"We've housed you for six years and the best thing you've made for your master has been a small ring."  Mark Wallmaker gave her a pitying look, the Guildmaster's age-bleached green eyes filled with the kind disappointment one would give a three-legged puppy.  "Child's play."  He sighed, shaking his head as he casually tossed the platinum ring back across the desk between them.  "Kim Hovland, the Maker's Guild can no longer afford to train you."
Kim's heart clenched at the tinkle of her most complex creation tumbling from the desk and bouncing across the smooth stone floor like discarded trash, but didn't rush to pick it up.  She knew it was true—a ring was child's play, regardless of how intricate she had made the gold embossing of a female kreenit in flight upon the titanium band—and to show such an attachment to such a simple product would reveal her as the fraud he claimed she was.  Instead, Kim swallowed and kept her eyes from following it, her heart hammering at the thought of being forced to make her way in the world as an ordinary who was destined for nothing more interesting than manual labor.  After her taste of life in the Guild, it would kill her to leave.  "I'll learn the motions, Master Wallmaker.  I'll get better!"
The old Maker shook his head.  "At best, you could become a remote supplier, though the amount of training required to even get you to that point is simply not feasible.  I'm sorry, Kim."  His voice took on a ritual intonation.  "On this sixth day of June, the eight hundred and nineteenth year of the Origin's Founding, the Makers Guild of the Upper Mountain Territories has decided—" 
"Wait!" Kim cried.  "I'll do anything.  Literally anything.  The Guild is my life.  I'll wait tables.  Clean toilets.  Feed pigs.  Please."  She was begging, now, but she didn't care.  She reached for his big, age-worn hand.  "Please don't make me leave."
The Guildmaster hesitated again, looking torn.  For a moment, seeing the anguish in his eyes, Kim thought he would change his mind.  Then, straightening, he pulled his hand from hers and firmly said, "Your bags are already packed.  The accountants decided your meager contributions to the Guild entitle you to five lifestones and a pack animal. You are expected to be off the grounds by midnight tonight."
Tonight?!  Kim felt like she'd been kicked.  Not once in six years of training had she felt they were that disappointed in her, to make her leave with less than eight hours' notice.  She was so close to unlocking her power—she could feel it—and they were turning her away.  It cut her to the core.
"I need the Guild," she said, dropping to her knees before his desk, beyond caring about the humiliation of her act.  "Please.  Being a Maker was my dream ever since I was a little girl.  Just give me another year.  I'll spend an extra two hours every day Making items for the Guild to pay my way.  Just don't send me home.  I promise I'll work hard—I'll get up early, skip recess, practice the motions six hours every day.  I'm from a farming family—I know how to work!  I'll do whatever it takes!"
The Guildmaster gave her a strange look, like he wanted to say something different, but then settled with, "I'm sorry.  Some children dream of travelling to the stars like the first Congies—doesn't mean they ever will.  The unfortunate fact is that you were not destined to be a Maker.  If you won't leave the premises willingly, you'll be escorted."  There was so much certainty in his words, so much finality, that it knocked the wind from Kim's lungs.  He picked up his pen and went back to organizing scrolls on his desk.
Long seconds passed with Kim still kneeling in stunned paralysis on the floor, and the Guildmaster didn't seem to notice.  He had gone back to managing accounts, her presence forgotten completely. 
When it was clear he wasn't going to acknowledge her again, Kim, trembling once her body became hers again, had to let herself out.
Five hours later, Kim was trudging afoot on a muddy dirt road, leading a sorrel horse laden with her every earthly possession, blinking back tears, headed in the opposite direction of her hometown of Highrock.  She couldn't let her parents see her like this.  They had been so excited to find out their bloodline contained traces of the People that they'd changed their Hovland family crest of three turnips in a kreenit's paws to include the double cornucopia of a Maker's Guild arms.  If she went back as a failure, her family would be devastated.
"What do I do?" she muttered, jerking the red mare's reins as it hesitated over yet another mudpuddle.  The horse danced, and Kim jerked harder, forcing it to leap across the puddle.  The creature's behavior wasn't unusual.  Animals of all sorts hated her, ever since birth.  She was just lucky the nag hadn't bitten her yet.
Kim went back to stewing as she walked along the mucky road.  She couldn't be an ordinary.  She'd spent the first sixteen years of her life thinking she was just another farmer, forced to watch as the Keepers worked their miracles—things like saving her village during the last drought and finding thieves and lifting children from wells—without any hope that she could ever perform the magics herself.  Then, when the hunchbacked old Minder had come into town to tell her she had Maker potential, it was as if the gods themselves had shined their blessings upon her painfully-ordinary life as a turnip-farmer's daughter.
Now she was ordinary again.  She jerked the horse's reins out of frustration as it avoided another puddle.  No hope, no prospects...  She was so utterly miserable and blurry-eyed that she was caught off-balance as her mare suddenly reared, yanked the reins out of her grip, and dodged to one side, nostrils flaring. 
"Whoa," Kim cried, raising a hand, her world suddenly coming to a pinprick focus at the idea of losing the animal.  It was, right now, her only lifeline, the one thing she'd earned in her six years of hard work, and she was pretty sure even her family would disown her if she went back without it.  But when she slowly moved to retake the reins, the horse flattened its ears and backed up slowly, watching her. 
"No, no, baby.  Easy.  Easy."  She kept making cooing, gentle sounds, promising apples and scratches as she kept reaching for the reins...and the horse kept backing up.  For almost a mile.
"Oh come on!" Kim finally cried, losing her temper completely.  The horse snorted and fled, charging off with all of her worldly possessions still strapped to her back.  When Kim broke into a sprint to follow, she had taken no more than three hasty steps before she tripped over an exposed rock and toppled headlong into the ditch.
She lay there, face down in the muck, knees and elbows on fire as the sound of her nag's sprinting hooves vanished in the distance.  Mud seeped through her once-pristine blue apprentice's robe as she pushed herself out of the ditch and onto her knees, leaving her as dirty and cold as if she'd been harvesting turnips in the rain. 
A wretched end to a wretched day.  Kim fell backwards into the mud and laugh-cried at the sky.  Six years.  Wasted.  And not even a horse to show for it.  Her dad had given her bedroom to Claire, so he'd probably tell her to get married to a meatbrained breadmaker's son to salvage the family honor.  Not the pretty one, either—he'd been taken by her younger sister, Abbie, last she heard.  No, she'd be stuck with a bucktoothed hillbilly with which to make bucktoothed hillbilly babies because she couldn't make anything more complicated than a pretty ring despite spending every single waking minute trying to memorize the proper motions.  And failing.  She still couldn't grasp that part.  She'd never failed anything in her life, and somehow she failed in the one thing she wanted more than anything?!  It wasn't fair.  Hell, it seemed too impossible to be real.
"Just kicked out of the Makers?" a man's tentative voice interrupted suddenly from nearby.
Kim jerked out of her reverie and sat up, wiping mucky red hair out of her face.  A tall shadow stood over her, silhouetted by the setting sun.  When she squinted, she could make out a young blond man smiling down at her.  As she watched, he gingerly offered his hand, which was fine-boned and long-fingered, reminding her of the statues of the original Minders in the guild hall—cherished Maker art that was over eight hundred years old.  Under his hat, his face even bore a striking resemblance to the bust of Twelve-A, though his nose was wider and his jaw a bit more defined.
"That obvious, huh?"  Kim gave a despairing laugh and flopped back into the muck, slapping despairingly at the mud around her, ignoring his offer to help her back to her feet.
"Your robe," the man said, pointing with a slender, uncalloused finger.
Kim lifted her head from the ditch to look at her mud-covered garments and her eyes narrowed.  She was still wearing the pale blue Maker's Guild apprentice robes.  They were expensive, and intricate, and she could probably get a lifestone or two if she sold them, but seeing them laid across her skin triggered something deep within her, and once triggered, her rage began to boil up in a rush. In a fit of disgust, she got up and tore them over her head and cast them off into the woods with a wet slop in the elderberries.  In that moment, rejected and shamed by the very Guild she had devoted herself to so completely, she would rather walk through a blizzard naked than wear a Maker's colors anymore.
The stranger's blue eyes placidly followed the robes.  Stark platinum-blonde wisps stuck out from under his wide-brimmed cowboy hat, matching the portraits of the original Minders exactly.  The resemblance was irritating.  If Kim had been eight-six and four hundred pounds, the Guild would have kept her regardless of her talent.  She would have had ten different masters, all training her daily, not one old fool with bad eyesight and missing teeth who probably didn't even know half the motions he taught.  This bastard, if he walked up to a Minder's sanctuary, would probably be taken inside without question, just based on his looks.
Why couldn't I have been ten feet tall?  Or three feet tall?  Why'd I have to be average?  They don't care about average.  They're looking for the pure blood.  They don't want some farmer's daughter born on the edge of the Territory.  They want extremes.
She gave the stranger a dirty look.  They want him.
"Nice day for walking, isn't it?" the stranger said.  His words came slowly and sounded strained, like he was speaking a foreign language.
Wonder where he's from.  Kim glanced at his boots.  They were worn and dusty and the edges were encrusted with filth.  Well, at least he's not a Minder.  He might look like Twelve-A, but a real Minder wouldn't walk anywhere.  They ride their kreenit, the pampered bastards.
"I think I saw your horse run by," the stranger said.  "I could help you catch it."
"Screw that nag," Kim said, flopping back into the mud.  Without her robes to shield her, the cold mud saturated her T-shirt and underwear.  She wrinkled her nose, but did not sit back up.
"Horses are worth a lot of—"
"Screw the nag," she repeated.
"Okay," the blue-eyed bastard said.  "There's a nice widow down the road who'd probably like it."
Why isn't he leaving me alone to die?  Kim closed her eyes, hoping that it would give him the hint.  When she opened them again, he was squatting beside her on the edge of the mud pit, peering into her face.
"You know, you've got her eyes."
Kim propped herself up on an elbow so she could scowl at him.  "What?"
"Emerald.  The Mover.  Back in the Origin."
Kim rolled her eyes.  How many times had she heard that pickup line?  Doesn't even know my name and the bastard's hitting on me.  "I'm so not in the mood," she muttered.  Covered in mud, lost everything, face puffy from crying and he thinks he can get me in bed by telling me I've got pretty eyes.  God I hate men. She felt like slopping a batch of mud into his pretty silvery hair, just for the attempt.
"How 'bout I help you up?"  He offered a slender hand.
She ignored it.  "How about you don't."
He seemed genuinely concerned, of all the irritating things.  "You're gonna get cold."
"I'm not gonna screw you, Skinny."
"I'm not looking for a mate," the young man said.
"For a mate?" Kim said, sitting up.  "Where are you from, the Origin?"
She meant it as sarcasm, but the blonde merely shrugged.
"No way.  Shit."  Kim flopped back into the ditch, spattering the stranger with muck.  To the sky, she said, "Why couldn't I be you?  They'd've let me stay at the Guild if I were you."
"You wouldn't want to be me."  His baby-blue eyes were sincere.
She waved that off with a laugh.  "Sure I would.  You look just like Twelve-A—I've seen his statue.  You're like the spitting image.  Hell, the Guild'd probably pay you to hang around just to screw all the girls in the place, in the off-chance you've got a few of his genes and might pass them along.  How many Minders as strong as him have come out of the Origin?  Like ten?"  She was pretty sure it was ten—that's what she'd been taught in the Guild, and all of them had been born in the Black City at the Origin's center.  The rest were just palm readers, mediums, and kreenit wranglers.  But it was all rumor.  No one was allowed inside the Black City without an invitation—on pain of death—and the only people who made consistent pilgrimages to the Origin were Guildmasters.  And anyone born in the Black City didn't bother leaving.  Even the people of the Origin were afraid of them.
That was the rumor, anyway.  Kim often wondered if it was just another wives' tale, like the Congies descending upon Earth to take away all their kids in a new Draft.  Supposedly that was this year, but the Guilds were keeping it hush-hush.  Some sort of command by the Council of Six.  She'd overheard her Guild leaders arguing about it, when she was cleaning in the next room, and they'd seemed genuinely afraid.  This was, apparently, the Year of the Prophecy, though there were several different interpretations on just what that meant.  Most—like Kim—just considered the Congies to be a fairy tale, a fad that would pass in a couple years when everyone realized the Prophecy was bogus and nothing was happening. 
The total seriousness with which her Guild leaders had argued about which 'side' to join, however, had made her wonder...
"Nine," the stranger said.
Kim blinked at him.  "Huh?"
He jerked a thumb over his shoulder, towards the Origin.  "The Black City's had nine with the same power as Twelve-A." He made a face like he knew them personally and wasn't impressed.
Kim frowned.  She was sure it had been ten.  "How would you know?  You even been to the Black City?" 
He grimaced and lowered his eyes embarrassedly.  "It's very...exclusive."
"No shit. Of course not.  They don't even let Guild Masters in there unless they want something from them."  She took a deep breath, remembering the horror stories that had been passed down in her Guild from the last time their Guildmaster was summoned to the Black City by the Council of Six, sixty years before.  He'd come back without hands and feet, because he had said something that offended one of the Makers there. "I hear they're so powerful they're not even human.  They kill Guild Masters just for looking at them funny, that kind of shit." 
He glanced at his travel-muddied feet, nudging the road with a toe.  "That's the rumor."
Kim sighed, eyes again catching on his unmistakably Origin-like features.  He looked so much like Twelve-A...  "Maybe I should let you fuck me.  Better than a bucktoothed baker's boy."  Then she squinted at his twiggy body and soft, delicate hands—the baker's boy definitely had him beat in the manliness department.  "Well, maybe."
Instead of being insulted, the blue-eyed stranger continued to watch her with what appeared to be compassion.  "You're more valuable than you think."
Kim laughed.  "I just got kicked out of the Makers because I couldn't twist my wrists fast enough to summon something bigger than a wedding ring.  Life doesn't look too 'valuable' for me right now."
"Why do you twist your wrists?"
Kim peered up at his silhouette against the sky.  Tall.  Waiflike.  Funny hat.  "Are you stupid or something?  That's the way it works.  Everybody knows that.  I thought you said you were from the Origin."
"I am."  His long fingers reached up to scratch his scalp beneath the absurdly huge hat.
Joe Dobbs shoot me, he really does look like Twelve-A.  She stared before composing herself.  "What'd you do, get kicked out of Minder school?"
"It's not really a school, but yeah."  He was grinning again.  His smile was beautiful.
The bastard.  Obviously he'd never had to work a day in his life.  Kim sat up.  "Then you're a Minder?"  Kim frowned down at his feet again, noting his travel-scuffed boots.  "Where's your kreenit?"
"I never had one."
Laughing, Kim got to her feet and said, "No offense, but you must be one shitty telepath.  Even palm readers have kreenit.  You weren't really in Minder school, were you?"
The blonde stranger showed her a ring bearing the Minder sigil.  "I was.  They don't want me there anymore."
"Huh."  A little taken aback, Kim grunted and flicked dirt off her knees, though she took several sideways looks at the ring.  Only graduates got a ring.  "So you're in the same boat as me."  Except her guild hadn't bothered to give her a ring...
"Pretty much."  The stranger once again offered her his hand and this time she took it.
"What'd you do, steal the ring?" she demanded.
He hesitated.  "They probably would've liked me to leave it, but I decided I could use it."
...Because only a moron would turn down a traveler wearing a Minder's ring.  "I'll bet you did."  She held out her muddy hand.  "I'm Kim."
"Sky," he replied, shaking enthusiastically despite the muck, then wiping the hand she had dirtied on his beautiful green pants.
Kim burst into laughter.  "Sky?  They named you Sky?  You must be from the Origin."
"My mother had high aspirations for me," Sky admitted.  "Since birth."
Kim snorted.  "Mine made me shovel pig manure."  She squinted at him.  "So what can you do?  Read my mind?  Talk in my head?"
"You probably wouldn't like it, even if I could."
Kim snorted.  "Come on.  Show me a trick.  Guess what I am thinking about right now."  She pictured his pale, smooth-shaven face with a goatee, long flowing hair, and no cowboy hat.
"Carrots," Sky said.
"Wrong!" she jeered.  "I was thinking of how stupid you look in that hat."
Sky winced, touching the hat.  "I thought I looked pretty good."
"Well, you don't," she muttered.  "You look like your mother dressed you.  Do yourself a favor and burn that thing.  People around here don't wear that crap.  Makes you look crazy or something."  It was a tad bitter, she supposed, but she didn't exactly feel chipper about her life at the moment.
"Good to know, I suppose." Sky tugged off the hat and gave it a woeful look.  It gave her a good view of his whole face—including the two pointed ears hiding in the platinum blonde hair—and Kim forgot to breathe.
"You're a direct descendent of Twelve A," she whispered.
Sky quickly put his big cowboy hat back on, flushing.
"Now I see why you wear that thing," Kim said, eyes fixated on where the points of his ears had disappeared under the hat.
"It does get a little distracting when people stare," Sky agreed, looking at the ground before apprehensively returning her gaze.  "So where you headed?"
"Does it matter?  I'll end up bussing tables for a pleasure bar or counting tithes at a Minder temple.  I'm ordinary. Useless as a Dhasha."  She spat out the word on a surge of despair and tried hard not to cry.
"You're not useless," Sky said, looking genuinely agonized.
Kim looked down at her muddy underwear with a sigh, already considering sacrificing her honor and salvaging her robe from the woods.  "I wish you were right."
"I am."  He sounded completely sure of himself.
"So where are you going?" Kim demanded, feeling awkward at how insistent this stranger was, like he'd known her from birth.  "I mean, you could go take your hat off at any Guild Hall and they'd pamper you for the rest of your life.  Why the hell are you wandering a muddy-ass road in the middle of nowhere?"
"Being pampered gets boring."
"Really?  I've never tried it."  Kim took a deep breath and flicked some mud off her undershirt.  "Well, I'd better get going.  Nice meeting you, Sky."  She started trudging along the trail once more, deciding she'd just make some trinkets to pay for her lodging stay, rather than spend the next three hours trying to hunt down her horse.
"I'll go with you," he offered, quickly moving to follow her.  He was irritatingly taller than her, almost by a foot.
"I'd rather you didn't," she said, stopping him with a muddy hand.  "If I arrive alone, at least I can say that I was run down on the road and robbed.  Maybe someone will take pity on me that way."
"You're a good-looking girl in her underwear."  He gave her a concerned look.  "You need a protector."
Kim blinked at the audacity, then threw back her head and laughed.  "Protector?  You?  How old-fashioned is that?!  I was in the Maker school, you know.  I'm not completely helpless."  She glanced at his scrawny arms.  "And no offense, but you're built like a twig.  You probably couldn't stop yourself from falling down if the wind gusted, much less stop some evil rapist wandering the highway after dark."
He shrugged.
Shaking her head, Kim said, "I'd like to keep my dignity, if you don't mind.  I don't need some blue-eyed cretin following me around telling people the truth about my daring escape on the highway."
"Oh, no," Sky said quickly, "seeing your beautiful face, the barbarians probably thought you were a virgin and were going to offer you up as a sacrifice to wild kreenit."
Kim frowned at him.  "Probably?"
Sky's pale skin reddened in a blush.
She gasped.  "You naughty bastard, you can read minds, can't you?!"
"It is the most basic form of telepathy," Sky admitted.
She whacked him on the chest with a muddy wrist, leaving a smear on his expensive green clothes.  "Keep it to yourself.  In fact, go away.  That just gives me the creeps."
"I won't go any deeper," Sky said, ignoring the brown smudge she'd made.  "It was just surface stuff."
"Just how much did you dig up just now?" Kim demanded.  "I didn't feel anything.  I thought I was supposed to feel something."
"I just touched the edges," Sky assured her.  "I wanted to see what kind of person you were."
Kim gave a bitter snort.  "What, you were afraid of getting assaulted by a half-naked woman in a mudhole?"
"Stranger things have happened."
She peered at him, then sighed.  "Well give me your coat, then.  When people want to know why I'm in my underwear, we'll just say you rescued me from bandits.  They won't believe it, of course, but we might get a pity meal or two."
Sky immediately removed his coat without complaint.  Kim took it, expecting wool or cotton.  When the silky material touched her fingers, however, she almost dropped it.  "I can't wear this!" she cried, shoving it back at him.  "This is worth a fortune!"
"You can make me another one," Sky said. "Once you get better as a Maker."
The casual way he said it made her eyes narrow.  "I'm no longer with the Guild, dumbass."
"So?"  He looked completely perplexed.
"So they know all the hand gestures," Kim said, slow enough for a child to understand.  "I'm never gonna get them right unless I watch them demonstrate."
"Why do you have to use hand gestures?" Sky asked again.
Kim rolled her eyes.  "Now I see why you flunked Minder school."  Still, she wrapped his silky green jacket around her shoulders.  "Lead on.  I've got five lifestones that are burning a hole in my pocket."
"You ever tried using one?" Sky asked, keeping astride of her.  "It's quite nice."
Kim turned to peer at him.  This guy's some sort of nutjob.  "Are you crazy?"  When he just looked at her, she added, "They're worth more than my dad's farm."
"Go ahead and use one," Sky said.  "You'll like it."
Though her curiosity was piqued, Kim snorted.  "I'm sure I would—right up until I woke up and realized I was one stone poorer."
"Richer," Sky insisted.  "The experiences embedded in the stones enrich your soul.  It's a shame nobody uses them."
Kim snorted again.  "Tell ya what.  You get me a lifestone out of your own sweat and blood and I'll use it.  Mine, I'm gonna use to pay for new clothes, food, and a roof."
"Here," Sky said, digging into his pocket.  He brought out a cloth full of glittering gems, all different colors of the rainbow, and casually held it out to her.  "Take your pick."
Seeing the array of multicolored gemstones, Kim's jaw dropped open.  She'd never seen so much wealth, not even on the visiting Guildmaster from the opulent city of Long Lake, close to the Origin.  "Where did you get those?" it came out as a croak.
"I made them," Sky said, as if it were a collection of whittlings he'd done in his spare time.
"Oh."  She remembered her jaw was hanging open like a fool, so she closed it.  I guess if he makes them, it's different.  Kim bit her lip, trying to calculate how much the handful of stones was worth.  Probably enough to get some Makers to erect a new town.  The idea of using one, of making the little inner light go out, left her anxiously calculating how much food she could buy with one, instead.  Only the insanely rich, after all, wasted lifestones...
"I offered to let you use one, not wonder how much they're worth."  Sky began to fold the cloth back over the stones.
Try one! her mind shouted.  It's gonna be your only chance, you stupid twit.  "Wait," she said, strangled.
Sky paused.  "Go ahead," he urged gently, unwrapping the bundle of gems and holding them out for her again.  "I suggest the citrine."
Kim wrinkled her nose.  "It won't be a bad one, will it?  You said the Minders kicked you out.  How do I know you didn't make someone permanently think he was a piglet or something?"
"It won't be bad," Sky said.  "I made them."
"Whoop-de-do.  A Minder dropout."  Still, her whole life, she had wondered just what it was like to use one of the fabled stones, rather than just hoard them for currency.  Kim tore her eyes from the gems and eyed Sky, trying to decide if she could trust him not to be some sort of mass murderer or roadside rapist.
"Go on," he urged softly, nudging the citrine closer.  "You'll be fine."
Well, the day can't get much worse, can it?  Steeling herself, she plucked an amethyst from the mix directly with her fingers, not bothering to use cloth.  "Now what?" she muttered, looking at the inner glow, confused that it wasn't going dark.
If Sky was irritated that she had picked a different stone, he didn't show it, and instead looked almost pleased.  "Put it to your forehead," he said.
Reluctantly, Kim did.  "Okay, so now whaa—"  Like a dam bursting its gorge, an overpowering wave of joy rushed out of the stone, spreading through her, flooding and exploding in her chest, scouring out every sorrow that the day had dropped on her, leaving her with nothing but utter contentment and peace.  Kim swooned on her feet and dimly she felt Sky catch her and lower her to the ground.
So this is what it's like to be happy, she thought, stunned.  I haven't felt this good since I was a kid.
"How do you feel?" Sky asked her.
"Nnggh," Kim said, waving him away, still floating in the wave of pure bliss.
"I probably should've waited until we found a town," he said, giving the road south a concerned look.  "You're gonna be feeling like that for a few more hours."
"Nnggh!"  He was definitely ruining the high.
"It looks bad if you just lay there.  Somebody might think I hurt you."  He hesitated, watching her.  "If you want, I can carry you."
Kim waved her wrist dismissively and giggled as Sky suddenly hefted her into his arms.  She snuggled up to his chest and stayed there, breathing in the fresh smell of his clothing as he carried her down the road.  Perfume, she recognized.  It was a delicate bouquet of summertime flowers that only the highest-tiered Makers could recreate, and it lulled her to sleep.
At the inn, she barely noticed that Sky rented a single room, with a single bed.  The innkeeper, assuming they were husband and wife, smiled at Sky and said, "Your young bride is positively beaming, isn't she?"
"I suppose she is," Sky replied.  Kim could hear the smile in his voice and sighed contentedly, clinging tighter to his neck.  Then he carried her up to their room.
#
Two hours later, Kim threw off the covers, furious.  At first, she thought Sky had used her body and then departed, like she had heard of so many predators doing to young idiot girls who dabbled in lifestones that weren't theirs.  She glanced at the window, saw the moon rising outside, and cursed herself.
He could've done anything to you, you fool.  He could've made you think you were a stripper and you would've danced naked for him all night while you thought it was just another day at work.
Then a horrifying thought occurred to her and her heart rate skyrocketed.
How do you know he didn't?  You were out of it, sister.  How do you know what happened after he carried you up the stairs?  How many hours went by while you laid there in a stupor?  You were utterly helpless.  He could've—
I would never do that, Kim.  The thought that interrupted had the force of a mountainous rockslide, crushing her.  It was distinctly not her own, and weighted with so much anguish it left her reeling.  Kim collapsed into a seated position, but the mental beating was not over.
I'm sorry, Kim.  I just thought you'd like to try one.  I should've waited until you knew me better.  I'm so sorry.
"It's okay," Kim managed, holding herself upright on the edge of the bed.  "Dobbs' balls, just get out of my head!"
Sky's mountainous presence withdrew immediately, leaving her brain feeling like she'd had one too many pints of cider.  "Oh my god."  She touched her temples, groaning.  It had been her first experience with a Minder and, like Sky had warned her, it had not been pleasant. 
Three seconds later, a knock came at her door.
"Kim?" Sky's tentative voice called from the other side.
"Leave me alone!" she cried, suddenly nervous.  He hadn't even been in the room?  She scanned the dark corners nervously.  She'd thought Minders had to make eye contact to work their charms.  Just how far could a Minder stretch?
Without asking, Sky opened the door.  He was wearing a set of flannel nightclothes...and his big hat, despite the late hour.  Seeing her still hunched over on the bed, he stepped inside the room and shut it behind him.
"What don't you understand about 'leave me alone?'" Kim muttered, more than a little nervous. 
"Are you okay?"  He looked genuinely anguished.
He's a Minder, she thought, wary now.  Even one bad Minder was more dangerous than a thousand Grand Master Makers.  Careful, girl.  You're out of your league.  To hide her nerves, she muttered, "What the hell did you do?  I feel like someone tenderized my eyeballs."
"I was worried," Sky said.  "I felt you panicking and I had to help."
"Help?!"  Kim cried.  "It feels like you hit me in the head with a goddamned hammer!"
"Sorry."  He really did look sorry.  And miserable.  "I was trying to be gentle."
"Is that why you got kicked out?  You're a brute?  You smash people in the head when you're trying to help them?"
He winced further.  "It's...hard for me to touch lightly."
Kim lowered her hand and frowned at him.  "How'd you make that lifestone?"
Sky's face brightened.  "You liked it?"
"Are you kidding?"  Kim had to laugh.  "I've never felt so good since I was a kid, and especially never all at once like that."  Then she narrowed her eyes again.  "But I thought only the best Minders could make lifestones."  That's what she had been forgetting last night, floundering in the mud, and she was realizing it was more likely he had stolen them.
Sky beamed.  "I retrieved the emotion from a woman who'd just held her first baby and mixed it with a young couple in love.  All I had to do was find the emotions, draw them out, intensify them, and then attach them to the stone.  Do you want another?"
She eyed him warily.  He seemed genuine enough, but from everything she'd ever been taught, middling Minders weren't capable of imprinting the psychic energy onto the stones.  "So you can make more of those?" 
"Oh sure."  His casual hand gesture made it clear to her he felt it about as hard as cracking eggs together for breakfast.
Kim's attention narrowed further.  "How many?"
"As many as I wanted."
He really, truly, looked like he believed that.  Yet he was walking around on the road, kreenit-less, in dirty silk and a funny hat.  "Don't you know that would make you rich?"
Sky shrugged.  "I have everything I need."
Blond hair and pointed ears—a free ticket into any house on the continent.  Seeing his concern, Kim relaxed a little.  "Sorry I panicked.  I know even the weakest Minders can't hurt a fly."
"That's not true," Sky said, suddenly serious.  "Don't ever believe that."
A tendril of dread tugged at her guts.  "You mean you can?"
"I can't."  Sky glanced at the floor, a tinge of a frown on his blond brow.  "But not all of us are like me.  The ones in the Black City—"  He cut off suddenly, giving her a wary look.  He finished lamely, "Aren't like me."
"Like you how?"  She was oddly curious, now.
Sky gave her an impish grin.  "Have a pretty girl helpless on a bed with him and not take advantage of the situation."
Kim prickled.
"...to tickle her."  He looked completely bewildered by the nasty look she gave him.
She narrowed her eyes.  "When are you leaving?"
Sky's breath caught.  "What?"
"Leaving.  As in, when do you go?"  She gestured pointedly at the door.  "No offense, but you give me the creeps.  You're not normal."
Sky looked hurt.  "Not normal how?"  His words still sounded strained, like he was speaking in a foreign language.  Again, she wondered if they spoke another tongue in the Origin.
"Not normal in having a pretty girl helpless on a bed and not taking advantage of the situation," Kim quoted, scowling.
"...to tickle her."
"Right."
"I didn't scare you just now, did I?"
"No."  You only threatened to rape me in my sleep, you asshole.
His face contorted.  "I scared you.  I'm sorry."
"Look," Kim snapped, standing.  "That's what's scary.  Even a crappy telepath that got kicked out of Minder school and has to walk because he's not good enough to ride a kreenit is creepy as hell.  You're not normal.  Nobody likes having somebody else in their head."
Sky lowered his gaze.  "I know.  I can't help it."
Kim snorted.  "Sure you can."
He looked up at her, honesty in his features.  "No.  I can't."
Kim frowned at him.  "So that's why they kicked you out?  You couldn't keep your mind to yourself?"
"Sort of."  He again looked aside, and she sensed he was avoiding something.
"Carrots, huh?"  She drew a deep breath and let it out between her teeth.  "What am I thinking?  Don't lie this time."
He looked insulted.  "Last time you asked me to guess."
Kim opened her mouth to contradict him, then shut it again.  "Fine.  So what am I thinking?"
Sky held her gaze steadily.  "You're afraid and you want me to leave."
Kim blushed.  "That's not what I'm thinking."
"You like me, though," he continued, "You're glad I didn't take advantage of you on the bed.  And you think I've got a cute nose."
"It looks like a door pushed it in," Kim muttered, still sore that he thought she was scared of him...and had nailed it so thoroughly.
"And you think it was sweet that I carried you all the way to an inn, especially with how 'scrawny' I am."
Kim grunted.  "Maybe."
"And you like the way I smell.  Your grandma always told you that the first step towards finding a guy in your bed is liking the way he smells."
"I didn't notice how you smell," Kim said, flushing, starting to get unnerved at how accurate he was.  Even a decent Minder was often wrong...
"And you think I look like Twelve-A, except maybe a little manlier, and that I'd probably make good babies with you, and maybe the Guild would take you back if you brought me back and said you were pregnant."
Kim felt her skin go crimson.  "Okay, you can stop now."
"You really, really want to be a Maker.  As a little kid, you would sneak off to the village to watch the Maker in the Guild Extension make food for the less fortunate families and try to imitate the way he moved his hands when no one was looking.  It didn't go so well, though.  You were practicing by the creek with your little black puppy when that man found you and—"
"I said stop!" Kim cried, stiffening, thoroughly unnerved and anxious.  "Nobody knows about that."  It was illegal to kill with a Maker's gifts, punishable by death.  Part of the Oath of the Guild.
"Not if you're being attacked," Sky said gently.  "That's why I said you need a protector."
Kim recognized it was probably some clumsy form of Origin flirting, though to her ears, it just sounded weird.  "What are you trying to do?" she asked warily.  "Get me to marry you?"
"I told you I'm not looking for a mate."
She motioned to the rented room, the plush bed.  "So you do this with every girl you meet?"  There was even freshly-fluffed towels and scented bath oils beside the steaming tub.
"No."  He said it so matter-of-factly that she knew she was missing something.
Kim had heard that trying to talk to Minders could be frustrating, and she was feeling it.  Her emotions were all mixed up, and she couldn't decide if she liked the guy or hated him—another thing Minders were famous for.  She had to settle for tolerating him, since it was obvious he wasn't about to leave, despite her wishes.
"So what do you want?" she asked, getting to her feet.
"I felt your misery on the road," he said, quickly looking away.  "I wanted to cheer you up."
"You're lying!" she cried, jabbing a finger at him.  "What are you after, Minder?"
Now it was Sky's turn to look uncomfortable, and for an excited moment, she thought maybe he was going to tell her he wanted to make babies.  Then she viciously fought that thought down on a wave of horror, realizing how much of a slut it would make her to be willing to carry his pointy-eared kids in order to get back in the Guild's walls.
He didn't seem to notice her shame.  "I...just wanted to...travel with you," he said, haltingly.
"Well, you did it."  She started peeling the covers off to check out the bath.  Mud still clung to her clothes, and whoever had tucked her in had dirtied the bedding with her body.
"A...really long way."
Kim hesitated in sniffing the rose and geranium oils to frown at him.  "How long?"
He flushed until his cheeks looked painted.  "Um.  I couldn't tell you."
She was wary again.  "Why not?" 
"I'm...um...not good with math."
Meaning he probably wanted to get in her pants.  The promiscuity of the Origin was legendary—it wasn't uncommon for Minders to have thirty or forty children...or more.  The sex, however, was also legendary, and she was more than a little curious...
To distract herself, Kim gave her wrist a tentative flick toward the nightstand, trying to reproduce the motion to create a glass of water.  She got the water, but no glass.  Clear liquid splashed over the nightstand and dribbled onto the floor.  Kim slumped back to the bed, scowling at it.
Sky politely ignored the splash.  "Will you travel with me?  I could teach you."
Kim turned to him with a startled laugh.  "Teach me?  You?"
"Will you?"  There was something in his eyes that pulled at her core, almost hypnotizing.
"Will you give me another one of those lifestones?" she blurted, then bit her lip nervously, knowing she shouldn't be asking for favors until she knew what he wanted.
"I'll give you the whole bag."  Sky dipped his slender fingers into his pocket and retrieved the cloth pouch.  He handed it to Kim without even opening it.  Gingerly, she took it.  There must be a hundred in here, she thought, her heart giving a startled hammer.  She pulled the knot loose and peered inside.  Internally-lit gems of every color glittered back, like glowing pieces of a rainbow in her palm.  She was again awed and a little weak-kneed by the sight of so much wealth, all in one place.
Gawking at the stones, Kim suddenly felt ashamed.  Sold yourself for a handful of rocks.  Mom would be so proud.
I'm not buying anything, Sky's mountainous mind barged in hastily.  I'm giving them to you.  A gift.  They're yours, no matter what you choose to do next.  Keep them.
Kim froze.  Sky had taken the moment to sidle closer, and now, only a foot away, his blue gaze was fixed on her.
Holy hell, he really can read my mind.  I think anything at all and he'll know it.  What else can he do?  Can't they take control of people's heads?  Hell, he might not even need these little stones to make me his pet.
Now you're starting to understand. Sky's crushing mind was sober.
Kim's heart began to pummel her ribcage, but she couldn't tear her eyes away from the Minder's blue stare. I'm in an inn with a real live Minder and I'm so scared I think I might puke.
Don't puke.  The Minder's sober face broke into a grin.  The innkeeper gave us his nicest sheets.  Combined with his funny hat, his easy demeanor dispelled her building terror as if it had never been.
Then, at his use of the word 'us' she frowned at his nightclothes.  "You're not sleeping with me."
"I only paid for one room."
"Go rent another."
Sky laughed.  "That's ridiculous."
"Why?" she demanded, standing again, suddenly very aware she was in a strange room with a strange man who could probably make her do strange things if he felt like it.
"The inn's almost full," Sky said.  "Tonight, travelers will be looking for a place to sleep.  If I take an extra room, that's someone else the innkeeper will have to turn away to sleep outside."
Kim stared at him.  "Why do you care?"
He shrugged.  "I just do."
"You're not sleeping with me," she repeated.
"Yes I am.  I'll stay on my side of the bed."
She eyed the bed.  It looked like it might be big enough for two—if they both slept with one arm hanging off the edge.  I wonder if he snores.
Sky grinned and took off his hat.  He crawled under the covers.  "I never snore."
"I need to bathe," Kim said.
"That's what I ordered the water for," he agreed, rolling on his side and turning his back to her.
The steaming bath was so inviting.  She thought she could probably hang up a towel so he couldn't see anything...then caught herself, stunned.  I'm losing my mind, Kim thought, thoroughly disconcerted.  I only met him a few hours ago and I'm actually thinking about bathing in the same room and sleeping with him tonight.
You're not losing your mind.  You've just never met a Minder before.
And that was that.  When Sky could likely have had her hopping around like a toad if he'd wanted to, all of Kim's reservations seemed silly.  "Stay facing the wall," she ordered.  "Don't look."
"That's silly."  He twisted around to frown at her, his disheveled blond hair unable to hide his pointed ears.  "You said yourself, I could have you hopping around like a toad if—"
"That's the rule," Kim snapped.  "You want to travel with me, you're paying for the room and board, you're not mind-melding me into a frog, and you're not watching me undress."
Sky frowned and opened his mouth, clearly about to object.
This is too weird.  I'm getting out of here.  Kim moved to grab his coat from the chair—tax, she figured, for putting her in this awkward situation.
"I agree to the rule," Sky said, sounding contrite.  "If you travel with me, I'll pay room and board, I won't force you to do anything you don't want to do, and I won't watch you undress."  He sounded almost...desperate.
Why does a Minder want me to travel with him so badly, anyway? Kim thought.  That's not normal...
But instead of answering her, Sky rolled back to face the wall.  "I'll stay like this until you're done."
Kim hesitated, glancing again at the bath.  She needed one.  She smelled of fermented horse shit and ditch scum, and her eyes were still puffy from crying.  A soak would definitely do her good, and the oils had smelled nice...  She wondered if he would peek.
I won't peek.
"Stop talking, and stop reading my mind."
Sky didn't respond.
"And don't you dare move."
He nodded to that.
Muttering, Kim went over to the bath and made a makeshift curtain by hanging a towel between the coat rack and a chair.  She sprinkled some oils in the tub and undressed quickly, watching the Minder's back on the bed.  Then, in a much-needed moment of bliss, she sank into the hot water up to her chin.
About an hour later, after she was clean, she wrapped herself in a towel and was looking at the pile of dirty underclothes she would have to return to in regret when Sky said, "The innkeeper put some clean clothes by the door.  You remind her of her daughter."
Kim jumped.  In over an hour, the Minder hadn't so much as twitched, and she'd come to think he was asleep.  Warily, she went over to the door and checked the hallway outside.  Sure enough, neatly folded on the floor were a full set of utilitarian cotton clothes.  Nothing pretty—just browns and creams—but Kim was grateful nonetheless.  She brought them back behind her makeshift curtain and quickly dressed, then, glancing at Sky's back, hastily grabbed the bag of lifestones and went out the door.
The cheerful innkeeper was bantering and pouring drinks in the main room, which was much noisier and crowded than Kim remembered, coming in.  Kim waited until the matronly woman filled the last tankard then offered a lifestone.  "Thank you for the clothes."
The innkeeper's rosy face beamed.  "Oh keep it.  You're very welcome, darling!  You look just like my daughter."
"...But I want another room."
The woman's big smile immediately faded.  "You two have a fight?"  Like they were married and this was some sort of honeymoon.
"No, just want my own bed," Kim said quickly.  "That guy and I just met on the road.  We don't know each other."
The innkeeper deflated even more.  "I just rented my last room fifteen minutes ago.  A whole group of merchants headed up north."
"I could sleep anywhere," Kim said.  "Just give me a couple blankets and—"
The innkeeper shook her head.  "Already did that.  Twelve young men—had to let a couple of them sleep by the hearth."  She gestured to the bedding already laid out beside the main fireplace.  "Good thing too!  A storm's been moving in.  Gonna start downpouring any minute."
As if to punctuate her words, lightning crashed nearby and a sheaf of rain started to pummel the ground outside the windows.
Kim bit her lip, seeing that, then thanked the innkeeper and returned to the room with the Minder in it.  He was still on his side facing the wall.
"You knew she'd already sold the last room, didn't you?" Kim accused.
"I told you she would."
And he had, too.  Glaring at his back, she considered trying to make a bedroll out of towels and his coat, but it was late, she was tired, and so far the guy had seemed pretty harmless. 
"I'm getting in there," she muttered.  "You make a move and I'm breaking your nose a second time."  His flattened nose was, after all, the one thing about the Minder that didn't seem to be sheer perfection.
You are safe with me.  And, ridiculously, Kim trusted that.
She took another look at the rain, pitied whatever poor fools had gotten caught in it, and reluctantly climbed under the sheets with him.  "I'm pretty sure Mom would beat us both with a frying pan if she saw us now, Minder or not," Kim muttered.  Then again, knowing her Mom, maybe she'd fancy adding the Minder guild crest to her family sigil, as well...
"I'll keep my hands to myself."
True to his word, Sky neither assaulted her in the middle of the night nor snored.  Still, Kim was tense, on edge, and had a horrible time falling asleep.  Just the thought of a stranger laid out beside her—a strange man laid out beside her—kept her wide awake.  What the hell are you doing, Kim?  You're in bed with a guy you met a couple hours ago, and you know he's a Minder.  Would you normally lay here like this?  Hell no.  He's using some sort of weird mind voodoo on you and you're letting it happen.  He's asleep.  They can't do their mind tricks while they're asleep.  You should steal his pants and get as far away from here as possible, before he tracks you down.
She didn't realize Sky wasn't sleeping either until he spoke.
"You know, I can help you sleep if you want."
Kim flinched, suddenly feeling uneasy all over again.  "No thanks."  She'd been lying awake for hours.  He'd been reading her thoughts the whole time?  Panicked, she tried to remember everything she had been thinking.
"You haven't slept at all."
"So?" she demanded.  "Can you blame me?"  Her nerves were going haywire again.
"I can't blame you," Sky said, sounding tired, "But it makes it so I can't sleep, either."
"Poor you."  Kim continued to stare at the ceiling, unnerved and uncomfortable. 
"Let me show you something."
Instantly, Kim felt a warm touch inside her head and she began to feel drowsy.
"Stop it!" she cried, sitting up.  "You two-bit palm-reader, keep your mind to yourself!"
I'm tired, Kim.  Your worrying is silly.  Please let me put you to sleep.
Kim felt an underlying exhaustion in his words that made her immediately feel guilty for doubting his intent.  Then she felt guilty about feeling guilty.  She was literally in bed with a strange man, and the only excuse she could come up with was that he had pointy ears.  What would her mother think if she saw her acting like a whor—
The warm caress returned and ushered her into unconsciousness.







CHAPTER 2: Traveling Companions
Kim woke with Sky straddling her.  She opened her mouth to scream, but what came out was a squeal.  Sky was tickling her.
"You son of a bitch I hate you stop it!" she screeched, thrashing.  "Stop it stop it stop it stop it!"
When the Minder finally let up, she was breathless.  "This time I couldn't help it," he said, still sitting on her.  The Minder was flushed and grinning, his platinum hair tumbled about his shoulders in a tousled, just-woke-up look.  He tickled her again.
Kim laughed delightedly—then realized she was a grown woman, twenty-two years old, and unmarried.  She sat up and shoved him off her, blushing furiously.
Oh, boo.  Have some fun.
"You're crazy, ya know that?" she gasped.  Scowling, she twisted her legs out from under the covers, setting her feet on the cold hardwood floor.
"I'm not crazy.  Everybody else is crazy."  Sky hopped down to squat beside the bed so he could fold his arms over the covers and look up at her.
"That's the definition of crazy."  She stood up to get out of bed.
Sky stood up and immediately blocked her path, chest-to-chest making her come short.  At her startled look, he winked at her.  "Prove it."
Kim opened her mouth to retort and immediately Sky pinched her nose.  She tried to scowl at him, but she burst into laughter instead.  Immediately, Sky began tickling her again, and Kim fell back onto the covers, squealing.  When he finally stopped, she couldn't stop laughing.  She rolled onto her back, staring up at him, awash in feelings she had no idea she could have.
"I haven't felt so good since I was a kid!" she finally said.
He tweaked her nose, blue eyes alight with laughter.  "You said that yesterday.  Pretty soon, it's not gonna be true anymore."
Kim stared at him in awe, panting, suddenly having the urge to drag him back to the bed for a different kind of play.  Then, ashamedly, she realized what her parents would see if they saw her now.  A whore.  A schemer willing to sell her body for a handful of lifestones and the chance her kids might have pointy ears.
Kim sat up abruptly, pushing the Minder away from her.  She started tugging her boots on in silence.  Head games.  He was playing head games with her.  That's what Minders did.  That was their nature.
A hand touched her shoulder.  "You're not a whore."  Sky sounded stricken.
Kim ignored him.
"You're just having fun."
Kim finished with one boot and began knotting the laces of the other.
I did it again, didn't I?  I went too far and I scared you.  I keep forgetting you're not from the Origin.
"You didn't scare me," Kim said, getting up and walking to the door.  "I just realized how stupid I was being."  Sky was from the Origin.  How many naïve country girls had been coaxed into bed with him on his sheer looks alone, just to get wooed with lifestones and fun times and pretty words, and eventually left with a child as he went on to somebody else?  She pulled the sack of stones Sky had given her off of the dresser and tossed it at him.  "Keep them.  Go buy yourself some other girl."  Then she opened the door and walked out, figuring the conversation over.
It wasn't.  As she entered the hall, Sky said into her mind, They're yours.  I gave them to you as a gift.
"Well I don't want them," Kim snapped.  "Get out of my head."  She ignored the strange look another patron was giving her and walked into the smoky-smelling dining room and sat down for breakfast.
There's nothing wrong with having fun, Kim.  Kids do it all the time.
"And then they grow up," she muttered.
Only because other people make them.  If you'd grown up where I did, you'd understand.
"Leave me alone."
To her surprise, Sky did.  As fellow travelers bustled around her in the common room, Kim ate breakfast in silence, her funk settling in deeper.  What am I gonna do?  I've got five lifestones and no prospects.  I can't do anything useful.  If only the Guild had let me stay!  I know I could learn more from them.  I was so close.  I could feel it.
As usual, Sky's mind felt like a mountain crushing her when he said, Why do you need the Guild?
Kim hunched lower over her breakfast and ignored her unwanted eavesdropper.  Maybe if I just pretend he doesn't exist, he'll go away.  Like a bad dream, except this one's got an ugly hat and a pushed-in nose.
Sky sat down at the table in front of her.  "If you want, I can get a new hat."
"Won't do anything for your face," Kim muttered.
"You're being silly."
"Maybe I am."  Kim glanced up at him.  "What do you really want?  Don't tell me you just want company.  You're way too persistent."
Sky bit his lip.  For the first time, she saw traces of unease in his face as she watched him debate something.  Finally, he said, "I need your help."
"Me?" Kim scoffed.  "I told you I'm not a Maker.  Go hire someone from the Guild."
"I can't."  He spread his slender fingers over the table in supplication.  "I need a master Maker who has no Guild ties."
That made Kim stare, caught between the idea of unlawfully working without a Guild and the fact this Minder thought she could be a master Maker.  Finally, she blurted, "That's not possible."
"It's frowned upon.  Not impossible."
She peered into his blue eyes, sensing there was something he wasn't telling her.  "So what do you want?  I got kicked out, remember?  I never got the gestures down right.  The biggest thing I ever made was the size of a piece of bread."
"You can help me.  I can feel it."
Could he?  She fought down a rush of excitement as reality set in.  Kim looked down at the remnants of her eggs, pushing a small yellow piece around with the edge of her fork.  "You don't want me to kill someone, do you?"  That, unfortunately, was one of the easiest things for Makers to do—and why governments outside the Territory often sought them out as assassins.
Sky recoiled.  That's horrible.  I'd never let you kill anyone.
"'Let' me?" she snorted.  "Like you'd have a choice?"
His silence was uncomfortable, and Kim started to feel her skin prickle at the unspoken answer.
"Minders can make you do things, girl," Kim remembered her mother telling her in hushed tones as she knitted by the fire.  "Terrible things."  Her mom had been one of the few people Kim had ever known to insist that Minders were evil to the core, and her face always went dark when she spoke of them.  "Horrible things.  Those from the Black City...  All they have to do is think and you dance to their tune like a frog hit by lightning."
"So what do you want?" Kim demanded, meeting Sky's gaze.  "I mean what do you really want.  Stop bullshitting."
His eyes slid sideways again.  Do you really need the gestures?
"Stop asking that stupid question and answer mine.  What do you really want?"
"I need you to be a Maker," Sky said simply.
Kim sighed and dropped her fork.  "Are you deaf or just stupid?"
"Neither.  I'll help you learn."
Kim's throat constricted at the calm way he had said it.  He had sounded so sure...
This is bad, Kim, she told herself.  He got kicked out of his Guild for a reason.  Maybe he's gonna try to get back at them and use you to do it.  That's all you need—a Guild full of angry Minders prying at your head.
I can teach you, Sky insisted.  You just need to trust me.
Kim held his stare, trying not to feel unnerved at the power she felt behind those deep blue eyes.  Twelve-A's eyes.  The handful of other Minders she had met didn't hold a candle to the power she saw there.  She wondered, not for the first time, if he really could help her conquer her block and succeed as a Maker as he insisted he could.  Finally, she whispered, "You already know what I'm gonna say."
Sky held out his hand.  "Travelling companions, then."
"Traveling companions."  Kim took it, and returned his firm shake, wondering what the hell she had gotten herself into.
#
"What do you want with this dump?" Kim asked, scowling at the rundown village.  It had taken them three weeks to get here, trudging around on foot, and it was nothing more than a backwards little mudhole in the middle of nowhere.  It had been built entirely by hand, with none of the soaring stone buildings that indicated a Keeper presence.
This is where our visitors will arrive. 
"Use your mouth," Kim said irritably.  She had made him speak out loud as one of the conditions of following him, despite knowing it was a struggle for Sky.  Somehow, not having him talk to her in her head made her feel like her thoughts were more secure.
"Sorry," Sky muttered.  "It's hard."
"Yeah whatever."  Three weeks traveling with the Minder had left her much more confident of his benevolent nature, and with zero worry about getting assaulted in her sleep, but much less tolerance for his Origin-spawned eccentricities.  She gestured at the muddy buildings.  "What visitors?  These people raise sheep."
The ones who are coming.  Kim felt a rush of blackness sweeping over her, suddenly feeling as if she were contained in a tiny chamber that was pushing through the void, moving at incredible speeds and getting nowhere.
"Damn it, Sky!"  She reached up and smacked the back of his head, knocking his cowboy hat to the ground.  Now that he was more comfortable around her, the rush of sensations came whenever he felt it easier to show her something instead of tell her.  "I told you to stop it, turd."
Sheepishly, Sky reached down and retrieved his hat.  He was just tugging it back over his head when a black-haired woman driving a mule cart pulled up beside them.  She gave Kim a passing glance before her gaze settled on Sky and stayed there.
Sheesh.  You'd think she'd never seen a blonde before, Kim thought, scowling at her.
She hasn't.  She thinks I'm wearing a wig.
You're gonna have to wear a wig if you don't stop digging through my brain.
I can't help it, Kim.  Really.  I'd just be lying to you if I didn't answer you.
Lying to me?  She turned on him disgustedly.  I didn't ask a question, you prick.
You wanted to know if she'd seen a blonde before.
No I didn't.  I was being sarcastic because she was gawking like a country bumpkin.
She is a country bumpkin.  A really nice one.  He grinned at the lady.
So not only are you digging through my head, but you're digging through hers, too?
No, I did that three hours ago.
We were eating lunch on the road three hours ago.
I know.  He was beaming at the woman, ignoring Kim's glare.
Sharing the road with them, the woman cleared her throat embarrassedly.  "You two aren't from around here, are you?"  It was then that Kim realized she had been scowling at Sky in silence, ignoring their visitor.
"Uh, yeah," Kim said.  "We're looking to settle down."  That is what we're doing, right?
Not exactly, but it doesn't matter.
Kim peered at him out of the corner of her eye.  Then how are you going to train me?  Maker training takes time.  Years.
He made a dismissive gesture with an elegant hand.  It won't take years.
"You two been married awhile, ain't ya?"
Kim jerked and swiveled.  "What?"
The woman was smiling at them.  "You two know each other so well you don't even need to open your mouths to know what the other's thinking."
"Funny how that works," Kim muttered, giving Sky an irritated look.
"Must be nice," the woman said with a sigh.  "I been married going on twenty years to Jack, but he still gots a thicker skull 'n a catfish."
"Sounds like somebody I know," Kim muttered.  Then, "So where's the town?"  She couldn't see a single building with two stories.  Everything was made out of river rocks, with mud everywhere.  The rooftops were actually made out of straw.  Even her father had the self-respect to go buy shingles from the next city over.
They can't afford shingles.  They've never been to a Minder's sanctuary—it's too far.
Kim stared at him, then, for the first time, she noticed the woman's dirty face and tattered clothes.  Her face had a clump of warts on one side of her nose and her hair lacked all the luster of even a cheap shampoo.  They're barbarians, she thought, disgusted.
Suddenly, Kim experienced a rush of feelings that left her staggering.  She knew hard work, laboring in the soil and the forest, straining muscles and breaking bones just to stay alive.  She knew what it was like to give birth without painkillers.  She knew what it was like to starve.
Then, just as suddenly as the feelings had yanked her away to some other life, Kim was back in her own body again.  She opened her eyes and realized the woman had dropped the mule's reins to help her, and it was her rough, callused hands that had kept Kim from hitting her head against the cart wheel.  Kim stared up at her wrinkled, sun-browned face, humbled by how much struggle the woman had seen in her life, and how quick she was to help another human in distress.
"Or maybe you're not so attuned to each other as I thought," the woman said, frowning at Sky.  He had simply stood and watched Kim spasm in the dirt.
I'll get you later, Kim promised.
You were being unkind.  He put on a sheepish grin for the warty-faced woman.
Oh how I hate you, you deceitful son of a bitch.
"Do you know where we can stay?" Sky asked.  "My wife's sick."
Wife?  I thought you guys couldn't lie.
I never said that.
"Pregnant," Sky added with a wink.
Kim choked.  Pregnant?!
Well, she was wondering if you had the plague.  This way, I look like an idiot husband and you look like the poor, enduring wife.
"Wouldn't exactly call it a sickness, now," the woman said, scowling at Sky.  "But I know just how you feel, hon," she said, turning back to Kim.  "There's a place down the way, right as you go out of town.  Ain't real big, but a nice family runs it.  You stayin' long?"
Only as long as it takes for him to teach me how to wipe that grin off his face.  "Maybe.  We're not sure."
"You ain't got a horse?  No furniture?  No plow?"
"We've got lots of lif—"
"No," Sky interrupted.  "But I'm pretty handy with an axe and my lovely wife is a whiz with the shovel."
Both Kim and the woman stared at him.
"For planting fruit trees," Sky added, looking nervous.
"The only fruit grows around here is poisonous."  The woman was clearly wondering if Sky was an imbecile.  "I'll drive you, if you'd like.  Young mothers shouldn't be out walking the road like you are."  The woman was glaring at Sky, who gave her an innocent look in return.
"I'd love it if you drove us," Kim said.  Sky hadn't let her use her 'gifts' to buy them horses and her feet were killing her.
"Hop up, then," the woman said, patting the back end of her cart.  She slapped a hand across Sky's chest when he tried to join her.  "Not you, boy.  You can walk a bit further."
Kim held her hand over her mouth to stifle a giggle.
"There's room on the cart," Sky objected.
"The walk will do ya good.  Maybe the exercise will fill out them scrawny legs o'yours."  The woman clucked to her mules and snapped the reins, turning them back to the town.  Sky was forced to trudge behind them, his face dark under his ridiculous hat.
And I thought she was nice, Sky told Kim after the woman had dropped them off in the shade at the front of the inn.  Sky was scowling at her back as she drove off.
"Maybe she just doesn't like straw-headed idiots in cowboy hats," Kim said.  "And by the way, just how pregnant am I?"
Sky frowned at her.  "You're not pregnant."
Kim rolled her eyes.  "I guess you forgot about me being 'sick.'"  She frowned at the provincial huts around them.  "And just how long are you planning on staying here, anyway?  What are they gonna think when I don't spit out a kid in a few months from now?"
"I could get you pregnant, if you want."
This was not the first time he'd offered.  The last time, they had been discussing how life started inside a woman in the first place and he had offered to show her.
"I don't need any little creepy Sky-babies running around, no thanks."  Kim shuddered, imagining it.  Instead of wailing when they needed something, they would simply say, Mother, I believe my diaper needs changing.  By the way, be sure to apply plenty of talc.  My ass is still sore from the last time you screwed it up.
"Your mom must've had it bad," Kim said.
Sky shrugged and eyed the inn with haggard lines under his eyes.  I'm getting tired again.
Kim couldn't help but feel a wave of concern.  "You get tired a lot, don't you?   Is reading minds hard work, then?"  He had obviously been getting more exhausted every day.
No.  Not reading them is. 
"Then you should be as spry as a goat kid," Kim snapped, her sympathy instantly leaving her.  "Cause we both know how little of that you've been doing."
Sky gave her a sour look.  If only you knew.  But that's not what's making me tired.  I'm having troubles with the other Minders.
Kim twitched with a stab of panic.  "What?  What kind of trouble?"
They're not minding their own business. He gave her a weak smile and ushered her inside the inn.  They paid for their room that night with a golden coin.  Ever since she'd known him, Sky had never used the lifestones to pay for anything. 
Instead, he gave them away.
Aside from the one he gave to her, he gave three to an old, toothless beggar Kim had wanted to avoid back on their way out of the Territory; one to a single mother with three small children; two to a little girl with dark brown eyes and a scarred face; and five to the mayor of a filthy, Keeperless city on the edge of the Territory.  When Kim had asked him why he didn't give them all to the young mother or the little girl, Sky shrugged and refused to answer her.
This time, he gave a lifestone to the innkeeper's daughter, a lively girl only a year or two younger than Kim.  There was no doubt in her mind the girl was prettier, too.  She had nicer hair, since Kim had spent so much time obsessed with her studies that she forgot to comb it and finally had to cut the snarls out.  Her smile was too cute, with just the perfect amount of blush in her face as she batted her eyes at Sky in his stupid cowboy hat.  And her breasts were perkier, too.  The little wretch even tried to brush them up against Sky's arm when he offered her the stone in its tiny cloth sleeve.
Don't be jealous, Sky said.  She's only lonely.
Kim could feel the longing in his thoughts and immediately snapped back, How's it gonna look if you start fooling around with the innkeeper's daughter when you've got a pregnant wife boarding in the next room?
That's what I don't understand about this place, Sky said.  In the Origin, we had as many partners as we wished.  Nobody was ever lonely.
Well this isn't the Origin, Kim snapped.  What would that poor girl do if you left her with a blue-eyed bastard that demanded more liberal applications of talc?
That's the only reason I don't do it, Sky replied wistfully.
Kim jerked.  The only reason?  She had thought that weeks of traveling had at least made him like her at least a little bit.
I liked you as soon as I met you.  That's why I asked for your help.
"Stay out of my head, damn it," Kim said, slamming the door of their room behind her.  "You know that's not what I meant."
"I already offered to lie with you."  Sky looked positively puzzled.
"You've got brass balls," Kim muttered.  "You offered?  Guys don't offer.  They ask."
"You want me to ask?"
Kim froze.  "No.  I just...I mean..."  What would it be like to have sex with a Minder?  Probably pretty good.
Yeah.  Sky didn't bother trying to hide his self-satisfaction.
Kim lifted her chin.  "I don't think it's a good idea for you to go breaking our cover."
"What cover?  We're not hiding from anything."
"Then why did you lie to that cart woman?"
"I didn't lie."
"Yes you did."
"No I didn't."
"You did!" she shouted.  "You said we were married and I was pregnant!"
"So?"  He frowned.  "It's not going to hurt her."
"So you don't think it's considered a lie?"
"It didn't hurt her," Sky said stubbornly.  "I gave her something to laugh about with her husband tonight."
"But—"  Kim closed her mouth, having realized long ago that trying to argue with Sky was like trying to argue with a deaf-mute stone.  She sat down on the bed and tugged off her boots with a groan.  She hoped they didn't have to walk anywhere again for a while.  Then another thought gave her pause.  What if he lied to you about teaching you to be a Maker?
I didn't.
"Mouth," Kim reminded him.  "I've still got headaches from this afternoon."  Then she narrowed her eyes at him.  "But you just said you didn't lie to the woman on the cart and you did lie to her, Sky.  You didn't tell her the truth.  How do I know you're telling me the truth?"
"I am," he said.
"Prove it.  Show me something."  She waved her hands in front of her, waiting.
The blank look on Sky's face was all she needed.
"You don't know any of the gestures, do you?!  You brought me all the way out here and you were lying!"
I wasn't lying.  I don't know the gestures, that's true, but—
"You son of a bitch!"  Fury at the betrayal burned like coals simmering in her guts.  She shoved her feet back into her boots and marched toward the door.
—but you don't need them.
"Mouth!" she shouted.  Then she pulled the door open and slammed it behind her.  The innkeeper gave her a startled look as she stormed into the living area and sat down at one of the four tables, glaring at nothing.
From where she was over behind the counter, the innkeeper's daughter was grinning just a little too much for Kim's temper.  "Get me a beer!" she shouted, making the girl jump.
The girl did, her eyes wide as she approached.  "You're that trader's wife, aren't you?"
Kim scowled at her.
The girl swallowed hard and said, "I'm Birch.  Can you tell him thank you?  My Grams feels better already."
Grams?
"That stone made her bones stop hurting."
"The one he gave to you?"
"For her."  The girl nodded.
"He gave that stone to your grandma, not you?"
If you'd been paying attention to the conversation instead of watching her breasts, you would know that.
"Mouth," Kim gritted.
Birch gave her an anxious look. "Please tell him thank you for me.  He's really sweet."
"No he's not."
The girl took her statement to be modesty and smiled, then left her with her beer.
Kim drank alone, alternately staring at her cup and the ceiling.  What was she doing out here?  Some Minder had asked her to follow him and she'd been slobbering on his heels ever since.  She really needed to get a life.  Or a man.
"Don't you know it's unsafe to drink alcohol during pregnancy?"
Kim blinked at the pudgy woman who'd taken up a seat beside her.  "What?"
"Sharon told me about you.  Young husbands are the worst."  The woman reached out and pried Kim's hands away from her beer, surrounding them in her two warm, fat ones.  "Believe me, child, it gets better."
"Somehow I doubt that," Kim muttered, resisting the urge to tug her hands free.
The woman smiled and patted her wrists.  "You should stay.  We've got some talented masons here.  I'm sure they'd help you build a house for the babe."
Kim wrinkled her nose, the idea of being pregnant to the pompous ass almost too much for her to bear at that moment.
"Oh, don't worry, child!" the woman cried, misreading her expression.  "It's what friends do.  The whole town wants you to stay.  Such a lovely couple.  What does your husband do?  Mabel thinks a merchant, but I didn't see any goods..."
"He shovels manure."
The woman blinked at her.  "Surely he does something else."
"Nope.  That's pretty much it."
"Then we must get him apprenticed!" the woman cried.  "He's about to have a son!  We can't have him starting a family unskilled."
You hear that, Sky?  She called you unskilled.
The Minder ignored her.
The woman squeezed Kim's hand.  "Don't worry.  I'm Martha—the mayor's wife.  I'll have my husband meet with your young man in the morning.  We'll get things sorted out."
"Thanks," Kim said.
The fat woman gave Kim a smile, then took her beer and left.  Kim narrowed her eyes and ordered another beer.  After she'd finished it, she wiped her mouth and stood up, finding the Minder's silence to be suspicious.  She went back to their room.
Sky was spread out on the bed, sleeping.  He hadn't even bothered to take his boots off.
#
Prince Kragkhen gave the images a disgusted sniff.  "I am not impressed.  Takki could create as much in their sleep."
"The masonry is flawless, with some of the spires reaching eight hundred feet."
"So?"
Rri'jan switched the screen again.  This time, it was of a group of dirty humans huddled around a campfire.  Two small animals roasted on sticks over the flames.  Kragkhen's felt his hunger return.
"They still cook with fire.  They have no medicine.  No electricity.  No combustion-based travel."  The Huouyt sounded perturbed, as if it were bothering him immensely.  "How did they make buildings eighty stories tall?"
"Show me the city again."
The Huouyt did, and this time, Kragkhen took a closer look.  The buildings were beautiful.  Too beautiful.  As if beauty had been more important in their creation than utility.  They looked like Ooreiki monuments, not places of residence.
"And there is only one area that has these structures?"
"A continent, my lord, though the largest buildings are concentrated in the mountains, here."
"On a fault line?"  Kragkhen stared at the map.  "Why do they still stand?"
"The analysts aren't sure, my lord."
"And the government is located there?"
Rri'jan's cilia swept across his body once, betraying his confusion.  "They don't appear to have government, my lord.  At least not beyond the city stage."
Kragkhen snorted.  "And when their neighbor sends his armies to invade?  Who will coordinate the war effort?"
"They don't appear to have armies, my lord."
"Impossible.  Every civilization has armies."
"Not this one, my lord."
Kragkhen grunted.  We will change that. "Have you found a good landing location?"
Again, the Huouyt looked briefly irritated.  "Kerjia is insisting on a small town, well away from the affected region.  He would not listen to reason."
"The cities with the monuments seems more practical," Kragkhen said.
"I spoke with him.  The only way he'll land anywhere else is if you order it.  He's afraid of damaging the structures.  Feels they have artistic value to researchers."
Kragkhen gave an irritated grunt.  "The stubborn Ooreiki fool.  No, we can avoid his precious art. Wouldn't want to start an international tantrum with Verbhan claiming we damaged cultural heritage."  He scoffed.  "Ridiculous creatures.  They care more about art than lives."
"I'm sure we can find a place to land nearer the main areas of commerce that won't damage any structures.
"Not worth the squabble," Kragkhen said, flicking a dismissive paw.  "We just need humans.  Their level of culture is of no import."
"Still, my lord, humankind would be more likely to accept Congressional rule if we land in a central location and take important figures.  Even the Overseer knows this."
"Kerjia is an idiot," Kragkhen said.  "This is his project.  If he wants to waste his time, that is up to him.  We are merely observers."
"Speaking of that."  Rri'jan shifted the image on the screen again, this time showing a clump of Dhasha.  "We found several family lines.  We estimate at least six princes."
Kragkhen's scales tightened against his chest as he looked at the pictures of his Dhasha brethren taken amidst the alien scenery below.  Old brethren.  Who somehow had survived a Sacred Turn without one of their sons killing them.  "How did they get down there?"
"Marooned slavers, I would imagine."
"Does Kerjia know about this?"
"If he does, I would imagine that is why he's decided to visit an outlying town.  The native Dhasha seem to have congregated around the central cities."
Kragkhen snorted and flexed his talons into the floor.  "Coward."
"At least we know how they've controlled the kreenit."
"So how does Kerjia plan to remove them?" Kragkhen demanded.  "This is registered as a human planet.  Dhasha will fall second to no one."
"We might have to find them another planet," Rri'jan said.  "As far as we can tell, they've dug six deep dens."
"Six on one continent?"  Kragkhen stared at the Dhasha on the screen.  It was an ancient male.  Almost large enough to take his place on the Tribunal.  "How is it they're not killing each other?"
"Another mystery," Rri'jan said.  "As interesting as the mystery of how the humans are thriving, instead of losing their numbers to the Dhasha.  Or the mystery of their elaborate structures, some of which have no seams, no means of putting them together.  Or the mystery of why they rejected their technologies instead of struggling to piece them back together.  Or the mystery of how your predecessor died by choking on a wad of Human thongs."
Kragkhen tensed, remembering the news of how his brother Mekkval had been found on his back, scaleless, bloated tongue sticking out, a wad of human underwear filling his windpipe.
"I'm not liking this," Kragkhen said.  "Bring me the answers, Rri'jan."
The head of the Ze'laa family bowed.  "It will be my pleasure, Representative."
Kragkhen watched the Huouyt leave, his scales itching.  The memory of the humiliating way his brother had been found had been the talk of Congress for decades, but because he had been on Earth illegally, violating the order of the Sacred Turn, the Regency had allowed no investigation.  Aliphei and Daviin had summoned Mekkval's next-of-kin and replaced the dead Representative the next day, and the matter was buried and forgotten.
...To everyone but Kragkhen, that was.  He doubted whoever was responsible was still alive, since Earth aliens were so short-lived, but he suspected it had been the Human assassin his brother had employed before Earth's judgement.  He'd come along on Kerjia's voyage on the off-chance he could prove it—and thereby prevent humanity's return to citizenship, releasing them to slavers and animal-breeders, instead.
Revenge, when he had it, would be sweet.
Still, the Peacemaker images of his brother on his back bothered him.  By what freakish act had the wretch lost his scales?







CHAPTER 3: The Grand Master
"Try doing it without the motions," Sky said, for the millionth time.
Kim scowled at him over the small pile of dirt.  "I told you.  Dumbass.  That's the magic of it.  You can't do magic without the magic gestures.  That's why there's a Guild.  With scrolls and old farts who wander around in their underwear muttering incantations under their old fart breath."
"Fine, do it your way."  Sighing, Sky leaned back against the tree and crossed his arms.
"Fine.  I will."  Kim concentrated, waving her wrists back and forth, executing the double-twist of her left thumb with what she thought was perfect precision.  The pile of dirt, however, failed to do more than collapse into a muddy paste.
"I'm really getting thirsty," Sky noted.
"Shut up."  Kim concentrated again, once more performing the required motions.
The dirt sank deeper in on itself.
"You ready to try it my way yet?"
Kim narrowed her eyes at him and kept trying until there was nothing left of the dirt except runny mud the consistency of baby shit.  "That's the third pile!" Kim cried, kicking mud into the woods.  "What am I doing wrong?!"
"How about you let me try?" Sky offered.  Not, thankfully, in her head.  When he was in her head, she felt like an ant walking around on the surface of a moving sledgehammer.
Then she realized what he'd said.  Kim jerked, turning to face the reclining telepath.  "You?  You're a Maker and a Minder?"  She hadn't known that was possible.  Something about recessive genes cancelling each other out...
"No, but you are."
It took Kim a moment to catch his drift, but when she did, her eyes widened.  "No way.  No way.  Screw that.  Screw that.  You got me, Sky?  No way."
He gave her a flat blue stare.  "You wanna learn or not?"
"Not like that."
He yawned.  "Then grab some more dirt.  We're gonna be here a while."
They'd already been there a while.  Kim was actually starting to think maybe the Maker Guildmaster had been right.  Scowling at Sky, Kim went back to the riverbank and reluctantly dug more dirt out from under the root system.  Muttering to herself, Kim scooped up the dirt, carried it back, and dumped it out at Sky's feet.  "Okay.  Fine.  What'd you want to show me?"
The dirt suddenly shifted into a crystal-clear glass of water, so instantaneously that Kim had to blink to make sure she wasn't seeing things.  Casually, Sky leaned forward and retrieved the glass, then drained the water inside, making a sound of satisfaction after he finished.
"Is that what I think it is?" Kim demanded.  "Or are you making me think I'm seeing water?"
Sky offered the empty glass to her.  Kim took the container and sniffed.  It smelled like water.  She touched her finger to the inside of the glass and touched it to her tongue.  Cold, pure water.  The sides of the glass were even then forming droplets of condensation.  Her eyes widened and she stared at Sky.
"How did you do that?"  Even the Guildmaster would have had trouble with making it so fast.
"You did it," Sky said tiredly.  "Not me."
She swallowed.  "You mean you made me do it?"  Goosebumps erupted along her arms and she stumbled backwards a step.
Sky tilted his cowboy hat over his face and pretended to sleep.
Kim stepped forward and kicked his leg.  "Hey!  You son of a bitch, I told you no!"
"I just wanted to show you you could," he replied, without looking up.
Kim scowled at the glass.  She was feeling thirsty, too.  "Make me some."
"Make your own."  He yawned and settled back against the tree.
Kim thought her teeth would crack.  "Fine.  You know what?  Screw you."  She took the glass down to the stream and filled it with water.  Then, after drinking as much as she could fit into her stomach, she filled the cup one last time, took it back to Sky, and dumped it on him.
Sky did not even have the good grace to sputter.  "I knew you were going to do that."  He pulled his cowboy hat from his head and shook it off unconcernedly.
"That's only because you're a pervert that can read my mind."
"No, that's because you're predictable."  Sky peered up at her.  His eyes were even bluer when the sun was shining, and his hair was so blonde it almost looked white.  "Do you really want to learn to use your power, Kim?"
"That's a stupid question."
"No it's not."
"Of course I do," she muttered.
"Then why won't you listen to me?"
"Because you're an idiot!  The Guild kicked me out because I didn't have any power.  You're assuming I do, which I don't."
"I just proved you did."  He took the glass and tapped his fingernail against the edge.
"I've made a glass of water before," Kim said.  "That's easy."
"Apparently it's not, or you wouldn't have drank out of a sewage stream."  Sky yawned and closed his eyes again.
Kim felt the blood drain out of her face.  What did that river run through, upstream?
Sky opened a brilliant blue eye and winked at her.  "Just kidding."
"This is a waste of time," she said, depressed as reality hit home.  "I'm not a Maker."
Sky opened his eyes with sudden intensity and Kim felt something firmly take hold of her mind.  It thrust her consciousness to the side, and Kim, helpless to even move, began to panic.  Please, Sky...
Sky ignored her, holding her back as firmly as a man held a newborn babe.  "See that tree over there?  The biggest one." Sky looked back at her to make sure she was looking.  "Watch it closely."
Kim felt power rush through her and suddenly she forgot about fighting the Minder's control over her body.  She could feel everything around her, right to the very cells of the plants.  She could dissect and analyze every substance, was intimate with every molecule.  It was as if a veil had been lifted from her face, her blinded eyes given sight.  She could feel the very makeup of the universe, and it responded to her.
As she watched, the tree in question changed color.  As it did, she felt the matter inside changing with it.  It grew denser, drawing weight from its surroundings, solidifying, hardening.
When Sky released her, a silver pine stood amidst a clump of its green fellows.  It glinted metallic in the sun, its feathery needles frozen in perfect stillness, oblivious to the breeze that ruffled those of the trees around it.  Its top stood some eighty feet in the air, crowning the surrounding forest with gleaming silver elegance.  A silver tree, perfect down to the briefest crevices in the bark, the tiniest leaf...  Kim's mouth fell open and she stared.
Sky released her mind and looked back at her.  "I had to pull some matter from the ground beneath it to balance out the mass, but you get the idea."
"Oh my god.  Sky.  Oh my god.  I did this?!"  Kim ran over to the tree and touched it.  She pricked herself on the razor-sharp needles and quickly withdrew her hand in shock.
"Actually, I did it.  You just watched."  He tilted his hat at her and grinned.
"So what am I doing wrong?" Kim demanded, staring up at the halo of silver branches.
Sky sighed.  "I already told you.  Stop making those stupid hand gestures."
Kim turned back to face him.  "Then how am I supposed to make it work?"
"You've got to want it to happen," Sky said.  "That's all."
Kim felt her frustration returning.  "I already told you I wanted it.  That's why I was so depressed when the Guild disowned me."
Sky sighed and leaned back against his tree.  "I'm taking a nap."
Irritated with his lack of response, Kim went back to the river for more dirt.  When she sat down in front of it, she glared at it as if it were the source of all her problems.  It took all of her concentration not to make the automatic hand-motions over the top of the dirt when she muttered the incantation for water.
"Stop muttering, too," he said sleepily.  "You don't need that, either.  Just a distraction."
Kim bared his teeth at him.  "Fine."  She sat there in front of the dirt pile, frowning at it.  The more she stared, the more she felt like there was something she was missing.
Just as she was beginning to feel overwhelmingly stupid for getting into a staring contest with a pile of dirt, Kim felt a familiar nudge in her mind.  Her world suddenly gained depth and color.  She could sense every grain of sand and fiber of decayed plant matter that made her meager pile of dirt suddenly come alive, its makeup so fascinating that she couldn't look away.
Now will it to change, Sky suggested, like a patient companion in her mind.
Kim stared at the pile of dirt, feeling the energy pulsing inside, awed to her very core.  It's too beautiful to change.
Sky released her and her world suddenly snapped back to the three-dimensional spaces she was used to.  Let's go home.  We're done for today.
"Put me back!" Kim cried, feeling the sudden ordinariness of the world stabbing her like knives.  "Let me see it again!"
Sky lifted the cowboy hat over his eyes and Kim realized he was beaming.  "Soon.  You saw what you needed to see.  Now you can do it on your own."
Kim stared at him.  "So is that what Master Wallmaker sees?  No wonder he thought I didn't have any talent.  I never saw anything like that before."
"Your Guildmaster didn't think you had no talent."  Sky yawned, stretched, and got to his feet.  He winked at her.  "He kicked you out because I told him to."
#
Kim, please.  Our visitors will be here soon.
"Screw you, you blue-eyed Origin bastard.  Go eat a mushroom and die."
You're being unreasonable.
"Oh really?  How?!"  Kim threw another shovelful of dirt out of the grave.  "You said I was a whiz with the shovel, remember?"
This isn't funny anymore.
"Did I ever, once say this was funny?"  Kim growled and threw the shovel aside.  "You know, now that you mention it, I don't remember laughing at all."
This isn't necessary.
"You ruined my career, you pompous toad."  She climbed out of the grave.  Sky was wrapped in the inn's blanket, rope tightly securing it in place at seven different locations.  She grabbed the bundled Minder and started dragging him toward the grave.
You know I won't let you bury me.
"I know, but this is very satisfying."  Kim dumped him over the edge, enjoying his grunt as he hit the bottom.
Kim, I didn't ruin your career.  I gave you a promotion.
Kim's eyes narrowed and she picked up the shovel.  "A promotion?  Please, Sky.  Tell me how babysitting you is a promotion."
With me, you'll be able to reach the stars.
Kim drove her shovel into the pile of dirt at the edge of the grave.  "If you offer to bed me one more time, you arrogant bastard, I will make you eat your hat."  She picked it up off the ground and hurled it into the grave with him, then followed that with another shovel of dirt.
I wasn't talking about sex, though anyone can see it would help calm you down.
Kim's knuckles whitened on the shovel.  She bent and threw scoop after scoop of dirt into the grave before Sky finally restrained her.  She stood there, seething, glaring down at him as he sputtered and choked, trying to shake the stuff out of his ears and nose.
"You're a bastard," she finally gritted.
And you're bullheaded.
Kim threw the shovel down and stalked back to the pony.  The confused animal was still skittish from carrying Sky on its back, and shied away when she reached for it.  Kim had to suppress her rage.  Why did animals always hate her?  When Sky had first bought the pony, the thing had nuzzled him for hours.  When Kim put its saddle on for the first time, it bit her.
They don't hate you.  They're scared of you.  They sense what you can do and that you're not in control.
"Fine.  I'll walk," Kim bit out, startling the pony again.
I won't let you leave me here, either.
Kim knew he was telling the truth, but she started walking anyway.  She wasn't surprised when she found herself standing at the edge of the grave a moment later, looking down at Sky.  His platinum-blonde hair was clumped with damp earth, his face scratched and muddy from his fall into the pit.  He looked pathetic.  It left Kim intensely satisfied. 
She kicked some more dirt in after him.
I'm sorry, Kim.  We didn't have time.  I would have told you.
"We didn't have time?" Kim demanded.  "You marched me across the planet for three weeks.  You didn't have time to say, 'Oh, and by the way, I got you kicked out of the Maker's guild'.  Who the hell are you, anyway?!  Don't you dare try to tell me some palm-reader reject would be able to tell my Guildmaster what to do."
Sky looked away.  Please untie me.
"No.  Answer the question."
He turned his head slowly to meet her glower with a plaintive confession.  I'm the Minder Grand Master.
And then it hit her.  The Grand Master Minder's name was Sky.  Everyone knew that.  A tribute to mental abilities as big as the great blue expanse above.  It wasn't even a common name—Kim had just never thought he could be that Sky, because that Sky never left his silk-clad room high in the Minder Guild Hall, deep inside the Origin. 
Realizing she'd thrown dirt on him, Kim suddenly felt like she was about to wet herself.  She stumbled back from the edge of the grave, blood pounding in her ears.  Oh shit.  Oh shit.  Oshitoshitoshit.  She turned to run.
Sky caught her and forced her to return to the edge of the pit.  His face was apologetic as he peered up at her through blond eyelashes full of dirt.  I didn't tell you because I didn't want to scare you.
Kim was hyperventilating, fear eating through her chest.  I just tried to kill the Minder Grand Master.
No, you tied me up and threw dirt on me.
She found herself gasping, getting lightheaded.  The Minder Grand Master could switch bodies on his victims.  He could put her into a cockroach and leave her there.  Forever.
I have to admit, sometimes the thought has occurred to me.  Not a cockroach, though.  Probably a mosquito.  Maybe a ground squirrel, if I'm feeling merciful.
Kim thought she was going to throw up.
Just kidding.  Will you untie me now?  My neck hurts.
Currently, Sky's neck was crammed up against the side of the pit, his head bent forward with his chin touching his chest.  Kim gingerly climbed into the pit with him and loosened the ropes as if she were handling live snakes.  Then she jumped out again before he could regain his feet, watching him warily.
Sky didn't even take the time to brush himself off.  He simply bent down, retrieved his hat, and mashed the crumpled, dirty thing against his head.  Then he shook out the blanket and tossed it up at her.
The innkeeper would like to get that back.
Kim nodded numbly.
Sky heaved himself out of the pit and took the blanket from her frozen hand.  We've got to get going.  Our visitors are due to arrive soon. Then he turned and left her there, staring after him.  Before he was out of earshot, he began to whistle.
#
I'm dead.  He's the Minder Grand Master and I'm dead.
Kim watched Sky's back as he chopped wood for the Harvey widow, considering her options.  If he really was the Grand Master, she couldn't escape.  She could run to the opposite side of the planet and he could still find her and force her to crawl back on her belly.
Further than that, actually.
"Shut up.  I'm trying to think, okay?"
Sky shrugged and swung his axe down again, cleaving another chunk in half.
She couldn't run, then.  Could she find a replacement?  Sky seemed to have some sort of weird fixation on her, but maybe she could get someone else to take her place.  There were plenty of pretty girls who would love to distract him for her.  Maybe someone else could help Sky with his mysterious 'visitors.'  Someone who didn't have a penchant for tying him up while he slept, digging a grave, and throwing him in it.
I thought that was amusing, actually.  It's interesting to get surprised once in a while.
"I said shut up!"
Sky began to whistle again.  He'd taken off his shirt and Kim was surprised at how well-toned he was underneath.  If it weren't for the ridiculous hat still scrunched over his ears, she would have found him attractive.
Now she was merely irritated.  The shock of Sky's rude revelations had worn off and she was currently trying to plot a way out of the situation.  She only saw two options.  Either she killed Sky or she killed herself.
You could ask.
Kim perked up.  "You'd let me leave?"
Maybe a couple weeks ago, when I had time to find someone else.  It's too late now, though.  I need you.
Kim grunted and turned away from him.  She caught the widow watching Sky from the door to her house, the old woman's face filled with longing.  And something more...  Furious, Kim turned back to the telepath.  "You had sex with the widow?!"
Sky actually missed a beat.  The axe went flying, clattering against the pile of wood he'd been making.  The widow's dog went to investigate.  When Sky slowly turned to Kim, he had a guilty look on his face.
"You did!" Kim cried.  "You horny bastard!"
She asked me to.
"Ohhhh," Kim said, "Well, then, that makes it all better."
For the first time, Sky's face showed a twinge of irritation.  I don't see why you have to be offended.  You won't let me bed you.
"But you want to, don't you?" Kim cried, triumphant.
Of course.
She reddened instantly.  She'd thought he would give his usual denials, say that no, they were just friends, he didn't want a mate, anything other than, 'Of course.'  Like it had never even been a question.
Then another thought occurred to her.  "Sky, how many girls in this village have you had sex with since we got here?"
He had to think about it.  Finally, Does it matter?
Kim felt like he'd stabbed her.  "Does it—matter?"
He shrugged and went to get his axe.  Things are different in the Origin.
"We aren't in the Origin, you prick!  What about their husbands?!  What are they gonna say when they bear blonde children?"
Sky frowned at her.  Why do you have to worry about it?
"Because you're not, obviously!"
He sighed and spread his feet again.  I give the unwedded ones lifestones to help offset the costs of raising a child.
"And the wedded ones?!"
He shrugged.  Marriage is ridiculous, anyway.
"You mean their husbands are going to beat their faces in when they find out!"
Sky was scowling when he put down the axe.  Kim, why don't you just say it?
Suddenly remembering what she was dealing with, she took a step backwards.  "What?"
Say, 'Sky, I want you to bed me and no one else.'
Kim's jaw dropped.  She felt a choking sound crawl out of her throat, but nothing else.
Until you say it, I'll bed whomever I please.  I don't have much time left here and I intend to enjoy it.
"Not much time where?" Kim whispered.  She wanted to tell him yes, bed me, but forced her emotions back under control.  She'd be damned if she let him manipulate her like that.
Here.  Sky motioned at the town around them.  Earth.
"Earth the planet?"  Kim's brows soared.  "Are you nuts?"
You seem to believe so.  He returned to chopping wood. 
Kim frowned.  His last sentence had seemed...off.  She walked around to face him.  He avoided looking at her, throwing all of his attention into each swing.  Too much attention.
"Sky, you're in love with me, aren't you?"
He jerked, and Kim was lucky she didn't lose an ear.  The axe settled in the mud behind her, Sky's hands still clasped together in shock.  He was staring at her.
Kim laughed in triumph.  "You are!"
I'm a Minder.  I love everybody.  He had recovered slightly, wiping his palms on his pants and moving to retrieve the axe.
Kim held out her hand and stopped him.  "Yeah, but you're in love with me."
He looked away, though not before Kim saw a look of shame cross his face.  She yanked her arm away, her triumph vanished.  "What's wrong?"
When he glanced back at her, his face was tortured.  It's not right.
"What's not right?"
To love one person over another.
Kim stared at him, then snorted and laughed.  "You are crazy."
No.  I'm a Minder.  He snatched up his shirt and strode back to the inn, leaving her alone.
#
Wake up.
Sky's mental hammer hit her mind like a gong and Kim started awake.  It was the first night she had slept alone since meeting Sky, and it was discomforting to wake up to an empty room.  "Sky?"  Kim blinked in the darkness, confused.  "Where are you?"
They're here. 
Kim's heart began to pound.  Finally, she'd get to see these visitors that had attracted the Minder Grand Master's attention.  With that thought came a twinge of dread.
Get dressed.  Meet me in the courtyard.
"You could say please," Kim muttered, throwing the covers off. 
Just hurry.  They're about to leave.
Kim frowned.  Leave?  But they'd just gotten there.  She threw her clothes on and stomped her feet into her boots.
Hurry, Sky urged.  He sounded different, like he was pleading with her.
Deciding against tying the laces, she ran out the door and into the darkness beyond.  The town was still asleep.  Frowning, Kim was almost to the courtyard when the monster emerged from the shadows and grabbed her.  Cold, rock-hard tentacles grabbed her wrists, wrenching her arms behind her.
Kim opened her mouth to scream, but a sting in her palm silenced her.  She suddenly found herself immobile, absolutely incapable of defending herself as the tentacled black thing hoisted her off her feet and carried her between the buildings, away from the courtyard.  Kim's fear built into a terrified, uncontrollable panic.
A comforting, familiar touch brushed her mind, easing her fears.  It's all right, Kim.  He's not going to hurt you.
You'd better tell me what's going on, Sky.  Her guts felt like they were turning to water and she was very close to shitting herself from the absolute, mind-numbing terror of being carried on the shoulder of a monster.
Out of the corner of her eye, she saw Sky and several others lying motionless on the ground, one of the tentacled black monsters standing over them.  The thing carrying Kim lowered her to the earth beside Sky, said something to the monster guarding them, and went back into the town.
You came out in time. Sky's relief was clear.  They only need nine.
Paralyzed, the cold ground seeping all the warmth from her body, Kim was just now beginning to get her breathing back under control.  Sky?  What's happening?  Who are they?
They call themselves Congress.
What are they? Kim asked, with rising panic.  Sky, what's going on?
They're aliens, Sky said.  He flooded her with a wave of images that left her quaking.  First and foremost in the barrage was the fact they were not from Earth.
Like Sky had promised, he was taking her to the stars.
No, Kim thought, terrified.  Sky, please don't let them do this.
It will be all right, he assured her.  His face, though, looked strained.
He's scared, she realized, and a whole new wave of horror left her skin tight with goosebumps.  What could scare the Minder Grand Master?
#
"As you can see, we've come to bring you back to Congress."  The words the tentacled alien used sounded archaic.  Like something from one of the Minder temples.
That scared Kim even more than the black, dripping doors and the walls that moved under her fingers like they were alive.
"You nine will form the basis of the new human government.  You will be our mouthpieces, our ambassadors.  You have two years to learn everything you can about Congress before we return you to Earth and begin the conversion."
He's wrong, Sky told her.  The Minder's eyes hadn't left the alien's since he'd started his speech.  He's got two years before the Guild destroys them.
Kim jerked around to look at Sky.  "What?"
"You there!"  The tentacled creature blinked its gummy, slitted brown eyes at her.  "What is your name?"
Kim cringed. The creatures had systematically showed them all the penalty for disobeying them.  Her muscles still ached from the pain that had laced through her body from the blue ring of metal around her ankle.  At the time, she had hated Sky for not stopping them.  Then the aliens had used it on Sky and, watching the Minder writhe under the agony of the device, her anger vanished, replaced by a cold, hard lump of terror.  Why hadn't Sky saved himself?
"Kim."  Sky had answered for her.
The creature gave Sky an irritated glance.  "The female can respond for herself."
"Kim," she said, swallowing hard.  Sky, why don't we kill them?
I can't kill anyone.
Staring into the monster's compassionless eyes, she said, No, but I can.
There's too many of them, Kim.  You'll see that soon.
"Kim.  Did you have something to share with the rest of us?"
She glared at him.  I could turn your insides to rat poison.
Careful, Sky warned.  That's why animals are afraid of you.
"No," she said, glaring at Sky.
"Don't look at your friend, look at me!"  The black-clad creature walked forward and fisted a disgusting brown tentacle in her shirt.  He dragged her out of her seat, until she was standing in front of the rest.  A dozen of the tentacled creatures ringed the room, all of them watching her.  Far in the back, an enormous Dhasha stood observing, its green eyes glittering coldly.  Why isn't he helping us?  Why does he just stand there?
Singled out, alone, Kim's terror returned.  She wanted to struggle, but she'd quickly learned it didn't help.  The creatures were impossibly strong.  The one with its tentacle wrapped in her shirt had thrown Kevin, the blacksmith, across the room with one arm.
"Tell us.  What is it about that one you find so interesting?  Is he your mate?"
"No," Kim whimpered.
"What, then?!"  The creature shook her, jostling Kim's body like a child angry with its doll.
"He's a—"  Her throat constricted unnaturally, cutting her off.
Don't tell them about Minders, Sky commanded.
"—an asshole," she finished.
The monster released her violently, tumbling Kim back into her chair.  "You will treat each other with respect.  I don't care what petty squabbles you maintained on Earth.  Here, with us, you are servants of Congress."
Kim felt herself shaking with the need to vomit.  Gently, out of sight of the aliens, Betsy squeezed her left hand.  "It's all right, dear.  We're here for you."
But you can't help us, Kim thought angrily.  The only ones who can help us are Sky and me, and Sky won't let me do anything.
She was still shaking ten minutes later, when the alien began making introductions.  "I am Tertiary Overseer Kerjia of the Ooreiki Ground Force.  We are a special contingent with instructions to do anything necessary to prepare Earth for re-entry into Congressional society."  He paused, his sticky eyes glistening in the reddish light.  "Do any of you know what Congress is?"
"I do," Sky said.  As always, it sounded stilted, like he was speaking in a language that came difficult to him.
Kerjia glanced at one of his companions.  "Is this one defective?  He struggles with speech."
"Scan said nothing wrong with his mind.  Just a speech impediment."
"We should probably find another one," Kerjia mused, eying Sky like an unwanted rooster.  "We need our ambassadors to be able to communicate."
"We're not turning around, Kerjia," the big Dhasha snapped.  "Work with what you have and stop wasting my time."
The little slits along the squat, tentacled creature's neck started to flutter as he turned back to Sky.  "Tell us.  What is Congress?"
"Congress is a huge society of species that feels it must band together for their own safety against the Dhasha and other common threats.  Earth used to be a part of Congress, before you tried to punish us."
"Tried?" the huge Dhasha in the back roared, coming to its feet.  "Apparently, Human, you have your histories mixed up.  We crushed your pathetic civilization into the ground."
"Tried," Sky said firmly.  He turned to face the Dhasha before Kerjia whipped an arm out and wrenched him around.
"Never look a Dhasha in the eyes unless it's death you're looking for, Human."  He released Sky harshly.  "We thought you knew that, coming from a planet infested with them."
In the back, the Dhasha gave an irritated rumble.
Sky said nothing.
Kerjia stared at Sky for long moments before saying, "You seem to be the only knowledgeable one of the group.  Are you a historian?"
"I know the history," Sky said.
"So you understand why we're here."
Sky nodded.
"Tell the others."
Sky turned, his eyes falling upon each of the other nine humans in the room, but steadying on Kim.  "We're here to learn everything we can."
"Tell them why."
"Because they want to bring Earth back into their economy.  They want to return our technologies to us.  Eventually, they want to reinstate the Draft."
Every human in the room stiffened.  The Draft was a story to scare little kids at night, an abomination where naughty children were slaughtered in faraway places by horrible machines and terrifying monsters.  It wasn't real.
Yes it is, Kim, Sky told her.  And we have two years to stop it.
Kim found both of her hands knotted into fists.  Why aren't you stopping it now, Sky?  We both know you can.  You could kill every one of them without even breaking a sweat.
I can't kill anyone, Sky said again.  But others in my Guild can.  Makers can.  Movers can.  The Dhasha can.  And they will.  If we don't find a way to stop them, Congress is going to destroy itself.
Wouldn't that be a good thing? Kim demanded.
No, Sky's normally powerful voice whispered.  A powerful wave of horror suffocated her, diffusing into the tiny crevices in her mind and staying there.  Kim shuddered, even as she knew that the feeling came from Sky and not herself. You cannot understand how bad it would be.







CHAPTER 4: Sky's Plan
Kim was picking at the smooth, cottony fabric the aliens had given them, sulking.  Sky hadn't done anything to stop their aggressors when the monsters had stripped them down and assessed them like they were cattle.  As they'd stood there, gripping themselves in shame, the aliens had made comments about their health, taking notes in little black, glowing pads.  Kevin, the blacksmith, had been taken away.  The aliens had said something about his heart.
Kevin's fine.  Sky had pulled the tiny sack of lifestones from his pocket and was picking through them again.  They're helping him.
Kim glanced away from him in irritation.  She'd had a necklace that had been in the family for generations that the aliens took from her.  Sky could have hidden that from them, just like he'd hidden the bag of lifestones, but no.  He let them take it without so much as a complaint.
"I hope they take those from you," Kim muttered.  "Bastard."
Pray they don't, Sky said, showing them to her.  They're more important than anything you could imagine.
"Oh?" Kim demanded.  "More important than my grandmother's necklace?  You know my mom got married in that?"
More important than you could imagine, Sky repeated.  But I saved your pendant for you.  He pulled it from his pocket and handed it to her, the glittering green facets in the gold kreenit-claw setting making her stare.
"You...?"  She took it gingerly.  The last time she had seen it, the Ooreiki in charge had been walking away with it in a sack, along with all the jewelry and other personal objects that they had taken from their captives.
He accidentally pulled it out of the bag and dropped it.  Sky's blue gaze was sheepish.
She had wondered why he had suddenly bent down in the hall on the way back to their holding cell, snatching something off the ground before their Ooreiki guards could see it.  Biting her lip, she clenched the emerald in her fist.  On a rush of gratitude, she threw her arms around him in a hug.  "Thank you, Sky," she said into his platinum hair.
Gingerly, Sky hugged her back.
Realizing it was about to go further than she had intended, Kim quickly pulled back and cleared her throat.  "You said you could make lifestones like someone else writes a note," Kim said.  "Who cares if they take them?  You can make more."
For a brief instant, Sky looked disappointed.  Then, returning his attention to the stones in his hand, he said, "Not these."  He held them closer and pointed to a piece of jade.  "That one contains all the memories of Twelve-A."  He pointed to a piece of topaz.  "That is Joe Dobbs."  He pointed to a green crystal.  "And that is your great, great, great-grandmother, Emerald."
Kim felt something constrict in her chest.
"I took them from the Origin when I left."
Kim stared at Sky, wondering if he had lost his mind.  Finally, in a whispery gasp, she said, "What if you lose them?"
Then we're in trouble, Sky said.
"Put them away!" Kim hissed, flapping the cloth back over the tops of the gems and glancing around the room.  The other kidnapped humans were huddled on their beds, looking miserable.  "Shit, Sky, have you lost your mind?!"
The Guild has copies, Sky said, cinching the band and returning them to the inside of his shirt.  But these are the only ones we'll be able to access for the next two years.
"I still don't understand," Kim said.  "What are we doing here?  Why did you get us captured, Sky?  Don't tell me it was an accident."
Sky took a deep breath and leaned his head back against the unnatural black wall behind him.  It's a long story, Kim.
"Tell me," she commanded.  Seeing his reluctant look, she insisted, "You owe me that much, Sky.  You never once asked me if I wanted to get abducted by aliens."
He let the breath out slowly.  Ever since Congress tried to destroy us, we've known they would return.  Over the centuries, the Guild split into two factions.  One faction believed we should do everything in our power to make peace with Congress, even if that meant allowing them to begin the Draft again.  The other faction believed we should do everything we can to stop them.  Even kill.
Kim felt bile burning the back of her throat.  "You mean you're saying you're siding with them?  You want us to just give up and let them rule us?"
Sky turned to look at her.  No.  I believe there is another way.
"Like what?"
Peace.
"But you just said—"
No.  Peace with Congress.  Independence.  Without war.
Kim stared at him.  "How?"
There is a creature out there, one Joe Dobbs met eight hundred and forty-five years ago.  Sky's blue eyes were anxious, and she was unnerved by the desperation she saw there.  I think it might be able to help us.  If we can find it.
Kim bit her lip and glanced at the smooth black alien wall that had once been a door.  "Sky, are the other Minders angry with you?"
His face became strained.  Yes.
"Why didn't they stop you?"
There's a reason I'm the Grand Master, Kim.  They couldn't stop me.
Kim felt a chill.  "So you went rogue?  Don't they kill rogue Minders?"
Even if they could, they wouldn't.  Even though some are willing to kill for Earth, it still hurts them.  They decided to give me the chance. 
"Was that before or after you recruited me?"
After.
Another chill.  "They would have killed me," she realized, remembering their meeting on the muddy road.  "Just for associating with you."
I wouldn't have let them, but yes.
"You're a bastard, you know that?"
The pain in Sky's eyes was enough to make her feel guilty.  It was important, Kim.  I didn't have time.
Kim looked away.  "Why did you need me, Sky?  Why not a Mover?  Why not somebody else?"
It had to be a Maker. 
"So why me?"  She felt close to crying.  She missed her family.  Her bed.  Trees.  Fresh air.  Birds.  Dirt.
Sky hesitated.  Because you're gonna be Grand Master in a couple years, Kim.
She laughed, despite herself.  "Well, that's one of the most ridiculous things I've ever heard you say."
I can see your potential.
Goosebumps flared across her skin.  "You're screwing with me."
No.
"But I can't even make myself a glass of water, Sky.  Water!"
You will, Sky told her, with an authority that made her heart pound.  And much more.
"Really?  How?"
Let me help you.
She snorted and looked away.  "What am I supposed to use for practice?  There's no dirt around here, Sky."
You don't have to change anything.  Just learning to reach your second consciousness is enough.  Once you can do that, you can do anything.
"My second consciousness?  Like when you made me...feel...everything around me?"  She could still remember being fascinated with the pile of dirt, completely bewitched by it.  She blushed, the thought still embarrassing.  "Why can't I do it myself?"
It's been trained out of you, Sky said.  Your guild of Makers has become reliant upon words and gestures.  It's put a mental block up, one you're afraid to remove.
"And the other Guilds?" Kim asked.
Only the ones in the Origin can intentionally reach their second consciousness.  The other Guilds perform their changes subconsciously, with only their sheer will alone to ensure success.  It is why the outer Guilds are weaker than those in the Origin.  They've buried their natural abilities in procedure and ceremony.
"What about the Minders?"
Our abilities have not changed.  They can't.  As much as we try, we can't close our minds to others.  We are always in our second consciousnesses.  Always.
"So teach me," Kim said.  Anything to not feel so damned helpless.
Sky sat up and positioned himself across from her, facing her.  He took both of her hands in his, sending a reflexive, nervous shiver through Kim.  He was the Minder Grand Master.  If she did anything wrong, he could convince her she was a chicken for a month.
Close your eyes, Sky told her.
"Close my eyes?  I thought you wanted me to see."
You don't need your eyes to see.  Trust me.
Kim, tired and anxious and afraid, felt like arguing, but closed her eyes.
Now imagine yourself expanding, Sky went on. Imagine yourself pushing out of your head, drifting into the room around you.  Imagine looking at me and seeing me just as I was before you closed your eyes.  Sitting in front of you.  Holding your hands.
"It's hard to picture you without your stupid hat," Kim admitted.
I'll help you.  I've got short, very light hair.  My nose is slightly flat from a fight I lost many years ago.  My eyes are blue like my namesake on a cloudless day.  My lips are—
"Ugh," Kim said.  "I was being sarcastic."
Then concentrate.
She did.  It was a struggle.  Her memory kept dredging up images of Sky that she had experienced at one time or another, and most of them included a dirty brown cowboy hat.  In fact, when they stripped Sky with the others to examine them, it was the first time any of the other nine humans had seen him without his hat.  The others had stared at his pointy ears as if they were seeing a Dhasha's horns, but none dared mention them.
Kim struggled to focus.  He's sitting right in front of me.  Without his hat.  Why was it so hard to picture him?  She'd been looking at him only a moment before.
It's the mental barriers you've put up subconsciously.  To stop it from happening accidentally.  Remember the man at the river?
The memory returned, despite itself.  A clean, well-dressed, brown-eyed visitor to the village, stepping out of the woods.  Smiling, he'd asked how her mother was.  "I hear she had a boy." Something about the voice brought back another scene, near that same riverbank.
"You're all alone out here, aren't you, little girl?" 
He'd killed her puppy next.  She remembered his big hunting knife glistening with crimson. Watched him lick it.  "I'm a Minder, you know.  One of the strongest.  That's why your mother couldn't tell them who did it.  I took the memory of my face...just like I'm going to do to you."  Then, leering at her over the blade, he had started her way.
Kim squeezed her teeth together until her jaw hurt, forcing the image of him shoving her to the riverbank back down and focusing on the task at hand, instead.  She would make it work without this horror show.
No, Sky said.  Go back to the moment it happened.  Remember what you did.
In her mind's eye, she saw the man place the knife against her throat, his brown eyes intense as he warned her not to scream.  She saw him fumble with his pants.  She saw herself scream and try to push his head away when he licked her with his crimson tongue, then remembered the startlingly quick jolt into a brighter, more vibrant world where she could feel and see every molecule...  Then she remembered the sudden limpness of his body on top of her, a ration of potatoes falling out of his head where her hand had been pressed against his cheek.
The horror of that, of being trapped under a bloody mess of potatoes and man, had made Kim scream again, and it had taken her fourteen-year-old self several minutes to struggle out from under his lifeless body.  Standing over him, seeing the bloody potatoes—exactly the same type she had watched the Minder make at the Guild Extension for starving families—had filled her with such horror that she'd felt her new openness shift, felt the sudden vibrancy shoved back out of reach, locked away in her horror for what she had done, chained in the back of her mind for all eternity.
Remove the chains, Sky said.  Set it free.
Kim felt a wave of shame and sadness wrench a sob from her chest.  "I don't want it to happen again," she whimpered.  "I made his head into—"  She couldn't finish.
It won't, he promised. I'm here to help.
Feeling surrounded by Sky's presence, Kim found the courage to believe him.  Very carefully, Kim relived the moment, pulling the vibrancy back, cutting away the bonds that held it out of reach. 
As if yanking away a curtain, the world opened up before her.  She could feel Sky sitting in front of her, right down to every single vein, every single cell that made up his body.  When she plunged deeper, she could feel the tiny mechanisms constantly at work inside the cells.  Beyond that, the very stuff that made them.
It was so beautiful.  Kim backed out again, so she could watch Sky's lungs expand as he took a breath.  She saw his heart, with its intricate lacework of veins and arteries tracing through his body.  She peeked inside his brain, trying to determine what it was about him that made him different from herself. 
She felt his hands stiffen in hers, but he did not stop her.
Thrilled, she traced his veins down out of his skull, through his neck and heart, down his organs and spine, into his legs.
You're beautiful, Sky, she thought, examining the tiny hairs on his arms.  In her sight, they glistened and glowed a pale white.  She followed them down to the tiny bones in his hand, examining each joint with fascination.  She wished she could see the intricate muscles work, the tendons pull tight and then loosen again.
Sky pulled his hand out of hers and wiggled his fingers between them.  Kim gasped, fascinated.
Are you seeing this? She thought, forgetting to breathe.
No.  I cannot reach that state with you.  I know what you're seeing, but I can't see it myself.
She was disappointed.  Gently, she reached out with her own hand and touched Sky's fingers.  She saw their cells depress as they touched each other, the tiny smears of oily liquid they secreted from the contact.  The touch, coupled with the intricate beauty of it all, humbled her.
How did you change that tree if you can't see this, Sky?  She reached out to touch an eyelid.  Underneath, the fantastically complicated organs that were his eyes watched her.
I used force of will.
She laughed, the spell shattered.  "Guess you'd have that in spades, wouldn't you?"  She opened her eyes.  The room was once again bathed in shades of red, depressingly monochromatic and single-surfaced.  "Can we do that again sometime?"
Sky smiled.  We can do that whenever you want.
She gave him a teasing look.  "I didn't scare you?  I mean, all I'd have to do is think of your brain as a pineapple and it'd change, right?"
His smile deepened.  Good thing we trust each other, isn't it?  All I'd have to do is think of you as a cockroach and you'd change.
Kim winced.  "Point made."
Sky stood up.  We should follow the others' example and sleep.  The Ooreiki have a big day planned for us tomorrow.
Kim didn't like the sound of that.  "Will it be bad?"
Not bad.  Different.
#
By different, Sky meant they would undergo brain surgery.
Kim had to lie naked on a cold, hard table, her head in a vise, her every muscle numbed, as the Ooreiki inserted small, metallic strips in eight different places under her skull.  It was maddening, terrifying, and utterly enraging.  The aliens never asked.  They simply did.
Throughout it all, however, Sky was there, holding her mind, comforting her, keeping her calm.
Then, when they were finished, they released the restraints holding her to the operating table, bundled her up indifferently, and stretched her out on a bed, leaving her staring at the ceiling in shock.  Somehow, Kim managed to retain her sanity through the process, though she knew she had Sky to thank for that.  He sat on the bed beside her, his brow constantly knotted, regardless of who was taking their turn behind the operating room door.
As she watched them take Sky to the operating room last, however, she felt bad.  Who was there to comfort him?
As if in response, Kim could feel his fear seeping out as the process inside the room began.
Sky, she thought as hard as she could, You'll be okay, Sky.
The presence in her mind grew stronger, more afraid.
She bit her lip.  What was it like for him to peer into the Ooreiki doctors' heads, know every tiny detail, every one of their insecurities?  What if he knew one of them had a shaky hand, for instance?  Or one of them was known for pushing the metal a little too far into the brain?
Then a new idea left her even more worried for her friend.
What would it be like to know what they really thought of them?  As far as Kim had seen, humans were more worthless than warts to the Ooreiki.
Sky's fear increased within her, building toward uncontrollable panic.
Can't you put yourself to sleep, Sky?
I can't. His mental voice was weak with terror.  I have to stay awake.
Kim bit her lip.  You remember I told you not to dig in my head and you promised you wouldn't?
Yes.  It was a terrified whisper in her head, fading with his fear.
Go ahead and do it now.  Distract yourself.
Relief flooded through her, and it was not her own.  Kim felt an instant of dizziness, then a massive headache as the presence blindly pushed through her thoughts, burying itself in her deepest memories.  Kim felt herself remembering things she'd thought she'd forgotten—she'd wanted to forget.  She remembered watching her older sister fall off the roof and break her arm.  She remembered her teacher chastising her for forgetting her homework.
She remembered her first love.
To her embarrassment, Sky stopped there and began pouring through the details.  Kim gritted her teeth and bore it.
He was tall.  Curly brown hair.  He was apprenticed to a Takki, soon to go down one of the dens to care for a Dhasha.  His name was Julian.
Kim watched every moment pass by as if it were happening over again.  She heard her mother's scolding, her father cursing his name.  She felt Julian's hands, his caress.  She blushed as he pulled her T-shirt over her head, shook with nervousness as he pried a hand away from her breast.  She felt the hay as it prickled her back, his soothing murmurs against her ear.  She bit her lip as he pierced her, feeling the pain all over again. 
She watched him throw his clothes back on and leave her alone with the cows.
Kim was shaking all over again, tears wetting her cheeks, when Sky finally released his hold.
I'm sorry, Kim.
She straightened, wiping the tears away.  Don't worry about it.
Is that why you won't ask me?
Kim laughed, despite the open wound in her heart.  You're one arrogant, pointy-eared bastard, you know that?  Girls don't ask.
You're going to.
In your dreams, prick.  Before he could reply, she reached up and touched one of the sore spots where the Ooreiki had inserted their metal strips.  What did they do to us?
Sky emerged from the door looking pale but alive.  The Ooreiki carried him to a bed beside the others and stretched him out.  They covered him and left, dousing the eerie red light behind them.  Someone nearby whimpered.  Kim thought maybe it was Betsy.
Overseer Kerjia wanted to speed up our learning.  He had the doctors install transmitters for the machines they will use to infuse us with information.
Kim squinted at him.  What does that mean?
It means they're gonna try to brainwash us, Sky said.  If they succeed, we won't retain anything of ourselves except what they want to remain.
Kim felt her heart stop.  Can you stop it?
I hope so, Kim.  Sky hesitated.  It will be difficult, but I think I can do it.
For all of us?
Guilt flooded her in a wave preceding Sky's thoughts.  No.  Just you and me.  The others will be better off if they do what they're told.
Kim felt a chill.  What are you planning to do, Sky?
We're going to steal a ship and escape.
Her breath sucked in.  They'll kill us.
They will, he agreed.  But only if they can catch us.







CHAPTER 5: Earth's Representative
Fred Mullich sat behind his podium in silence, watching the three most powerful Representatives in Congress debate tersely across the open space of the Regency.  Fred glanced at his watch.  He wasn't necessary for the proceedings—he was one of the few minor Representatives to show up on a regular basis.
Yet, despite his perfect attendance, Fred hadn't said one word other than a 'yes' or 'no' vote for fifteen years.  The last time, Representative Rakken had forced him to give a report on the economic potential of Earth, after reintroduction to Congressional society.
The report had been the most nerve-shattering two hours Fred had ever endured, and most of the powerful Representatives had left in the middle of it.  The only ones to stay were Representative Daviin and the Jahul who had forced him to give the presentation in the first place.
To make matters worse, Daviin had even feigned an interest in Human affairs.  For the entire speech, the Jreet had constantly prodded him to give more information, even though they all knew that no one cared about a tiny, insignificant planet like Earth.
Especially not the Jreet.  They were one of the most influential species in Congress, if only because their guards were the most utterly loyal protectors Congressional Representatives had ever had, and were the only things standing between Congress and the Dhasha.  In three million years, there was not a single case on record in which a Jreet warrior had betrayed his assigned Representative.  Thus, Daviin could request almost anything from the Regency and all of Congress would stumble over themselves to produce it for him.
The ongoing plight of Humanity was definitely the least of his concerns.
Fred still felt humbled by the experience, though.  He was sure the Jreet had been trying to teach him a lesson with the constant questioning, trying to make an underlying statement about Human weakness and insignificance that Fred couldn't quite grasp.  Knowing the subterfuge of Congress, Daviin's faked interest might not have been intended for Fred at all.  Daviin's questions could have been aimed at Rakken, as a warning of some sort.
Fred was still trying to figure it out.  The political dance of the six most powerful Congressional Representatives often left him in awe, and was so complex that he never knew why they said what they said until their propositions passed where they never should have succeeded.
"Mullich?" a voice said from his podium.  Fred's head snapped up, his heart in his throat.
Representative Daviin sat coiled on his dais, his metallic yellow eyes glowing as they pierced Fred with their gaze.
Fred flinched, but forced himself to stand and address the Regency.  "Yes, esteemed Representative?"
"You are also a Representative of Congress," Daviin said, "Though my colleagues would like to forget it.  Perhaps you would share with us your view on how best to reintegrate Earth into the Congressional economy.  It is your home planet we discuss, after all.  I believe you should have your say."
Fred swallowed hard and glanced around the spherical room.  Verbhan and Genbiraa, the Ooreiki and Ueshi Representatives, watched Fred with open scorn.  Kaj'nol looked bored, his white cilia deathly still, his electric-blue eyes half shut in a mock doze.  Representative Kragkhen's deputy snorted disgustedly and left.  Of all of them, only Daviin and Rakken appeared to have any interest whatsoever.
It was his economics speech all over again.
Fred's stomach gave a nervous flutter.  He cleared his throat.  "I've agreed with everything said so far, mighty Representatives."
The Jreet made an irritated sound in its throat, a soft, engine-like whir.  "We've had six different opinions.  You agree with all of them?"
Fred reddened, his heart thudding in his chest.  "No.  Uh.  I...uh..."
"The Draft, you incompetent Takki," Kaj'nol snapped.  "Can Earth sustain it, as it stands right now?"  The Huouyt's eyes were open, now, fixed on Fred with electric intensity.
Of course it can't, Fred thought, panicking.
"Daviin seems to think Earth should not have to follow the rules," Kaj'nol sneered.  "Its probationary period is up.  Is it ready for the Draft or not?"
Fred cringed under the collective stare of the Regency.  To admit that Earth wasn't ready, that the Draft would cripple them, would be to admit weakness.  If he did so, the gathered Representatives would tear him apart like a hare amidst wild dogs.
And yet, Fred wanted to tell them they needed more time.  Another fifty turns, at least.  Without kreenit interference.  With infusions of technology and funds to rebuild infrastructure.  With Bajnan economists stationed in the capital city and Jahul traders to oversee proper distribution.
Maybe then they could manage the numbers the Draft required.
"Every Representative in this room knows how hard Earth was hit with its punishment," Daviin said.  "Congress made a mistake.  We could not foresee how poorly you would recuperate.  You have not even rediscovered mechanized travel.  You need at least two centuries to rebuild yourselves."
Fred's heart started pounding in his chest.  Two centuries?  It was more than he could have hoped for.  It was perfect, a more gracious gift he could never have expected.  He wanted to float across the Regency and kiss the Jreet's clawed fingers.
And yet, he hesitated, the ramifications of his accepting the Jreet's offer haunting him.  What if it was a trick?  What if Daviin was manipulating him for his own gain, just another power play that he couldn't grasp?
"If you need more turns to prepare, now is the time to speak," the Jreet insisted, pinning Fred with his gaze.  "Congress will make an exception in this instance."
Fred opened his mouth to accept.
"Enough of your pity," Kaj'nol snapped, glaring at the Jreet.  "It sickens me.  His pathetic home planet will never be more than a dust speck on the Congressional countertop, and I am tired of wasting my time debating it.  Human, answer the Jreet so we can get on with more important affairs."  Kaj'nol pinned Fred with his piercing, blue-white glare, daring him to accept Daviin's offer.
Being faced with the assassin's eerie, blue-white eyes, Fred quailed inside.  "Earth is ready," he said, lowering his head.
Across the Regency, the Jreet made an irritated engine whir and summoned the Watcher to take him away.
"Very well," Kaj'nol said, "Daviin's motion fails.  The next matter before the assemblage today is the trade embargoes between Tsuar and Neskfaat.  Keerstan seems to believe the embargoes are hurting universal trade, but his orders to lift the embargoes have gone ignored for three turns now.  I find it troublesome that Tsuar and Neskfaat have taken it upon themselves to dismiss the orders of the Trade chairman so callously and I move to send troops to blockade them both until their governments come to a reasonable conclusion."
Fred sat back down, feeling the loss of his decision like a knife in his chest.  Earth could have had an extra two centuries.  Daviin was offering it to me and I didn't take it.
I'm a coward.
Fred took a shuddering breath, the strain of standing before the assemblage bleeding out of him, leaving his limbs shaky and weak.
It won't last much longer, he thought, lowering his head into his hands.  Earth will eventually send someone to take my place and I can go home to die.
Fred hoped that day would come soon.







CHAPTER 6: Brainwashed
The next day, Overseer Kerjia's lecture was a blur.  The old Ooreiki droned on about alien species and politics for hours, never once mentioning that they intended to brainwash their captives into mindless zombies.  He talked about the Grand Six—the Ooreiki, the Jahul, the Dhasha, the Ueshi, the Huouyt, and the Jreet—and how they were the six most populous and powerful species of Congress—and, coincidentally, how his own brother was a Representative and he himself was one of the most powerful Ooreiki on Koliinaat, hence why he alone had been trusted with the repatriation of Earth when there was such a heavy Dhasha push to revoke citizenship and turn all Humans into slaves...
The casual way Overseer Kerjia spoke of turning all of humanity into slaves and food for the all-powerful Dhasha was completely at odds with what Kim knew of the deep dens, where Dhasha were completely helpless and dependent on humans and Takki with opposable thumbs to do everything from make their beds to bathe them.
Kim grew more nervous as the day went on, but every time he glanced at Sky, his eyes were boring into the Overseer's skull with the utmost concentration and he never even noticed her glances.
The aliens came for them after dinner.  The Ooreiki had locked them back in their communal room and their companions had all crawled under the blankets, their eyes still wide and frightened from their lessons on the glories and terrors of Congress.  When the door dripped open and the first Ooreiki burst inside, Sky grabbed Kim's arm to keep her still.
You'll go first, Sky said.  I know I can save you.  If I can't do the same for myself, you must take the stones from me and go find the creature.  There's a stone in the sack—a moonstone—that holds my memories.  If I don't make it, use the stone.  It will show you what I planned.
Kim yanked her hand out of the Minder's grip.  Around her, the Ooreiki were gathering up their confused, bleary-eyed companions.  She grabbed Sky by the shoulders and forced him to meet her gaze.
You'd better save yourself, Sky, she said, looking directly into his deep blue eyes.  Do whatever you have to.
He looked away. I might have to use your memories again.
Then do it.
I don't want to hurt you.
Kim stared at him, stunned.  He really thinks he's going to fail.  She grabbed his head and yanked it back to face her.  Fuck that, Sky.  Do whatever you have to.  I'm not doing this alone.  I don't even know what you're trying to do!  You save yourself, okay?
Then the Ooreiki were pulling them apart, leading them down the tubular black hallways in the harsh scarlet light.  There were nine of the monstrous tentacled aliens with them in the hall, each discreetly carrying weapons, more guards than guides. 
The Ooreiki stopped them at a dead end, then one of their captors slapped the wall and a door dripped open.  Inside was a waiting-room similar to the one where Kim had waited for her brain surgery.
Kim, as Sky had promised, was the first to go.  She pressed her grandmother's necklace into her friend's hand even as the alien reached for her, forcing his fingers into a fist around it.  Don't lose that, she warned him.
I won't, Sky promised.
"Come with me, please," her alien guide said, tugging her arm politely.  "We have another round of medical tests before we can send you back to your beds."
Kim nodded and allowed the Ooreiki to take her wrist in its powerful, snakelike grasp.  Still, she found herself trembling as her alien guide calmly led her through the door and to the black booth in the next room.  Three Ooreiki sat at various positions around the room, the glowing, circular screens in front of them the only things breaking the darkness of the place.  Their eyes followed her as her guide made her lay down in the black booth.
Kim felt her heart begin to thud as she felt clasps lock around her wrists as the Ooreiki clamped her arms in place.
"A precaution only," the Ooreiki assured her.  "To keep you still for the tests."
I hate you, Kim thought, staring up at the alien's sticky brown face.  I wish Sky would let me kill you all.
The Ooreiki, if he sensed her malice, did not show it.  He simply backed away and flipped the lid shut over her, locking her in darkness.
After several panting breaths, it began.  Though her eyes saw nothing, images started to filter through her mind.  The touch was soft, at first, making her wonder if she was imagining it.  Then they intensified, carrying with them flashes of phrases and symbols that intensified until she was instinctively struggling against the restraints, trying to break free.
Why wasn't Sky helping her?
Congress is protection.  Images of eight multi-colored circles surrounding a metallic core.  Congress is justice.  Triple spheres, with eight more positioned on either side around them.  Congress is forever.  Images of passing time, of young creatures growing old, of stars dimming and falling from the sky.
A thin wail seeped from Kim's lips.  She squeezed her eyes shut, unable to stop the barrage.  It was worse than anything Sky had ever done to her.  More powerful.  More brutal.
Congress is power.  Infinite armies, marching across a battlefield of corpses.  Congress is mercy.  A quivering alien, begging for death.  Congress is death.  The smell of rot, burning her nose.  Congress is goodness.  Happy children, playing under their watchful parents.  Congress is fear.  Aliens quivering in terror, staring up at three podiums and three metal circles.
Kim.
He can't help me, Kim realized in a panic.  There's nothing he can do.
Congress is life.  Planets alive with vegetation, thriving under a cloud of black ships.  Congress is prosperity.  Coins and goods and food.  Congress is safety.  Aliens sleeping peacefully in bed.  Congress is beauty.  Gorgeous statues, elegant spires, paintings that put the morning sunrise to shame.  Congress is—
KIM.
Kim's entire body jolted with the force of it.
Concentrate on your second consciousness, Kim.  I'll help you get there.
Before she was quite prepared for it, she was yanked from her body, hovering in the room above the black booth, staring at the ceiling.
Seemingly in the distance, the barrage continued.  Congress is love.  A group of aliens, holding one another.  Congress is—
Find me, Kim.  Go back out the door.  I'm in the next room.  Explore my body as long as it takes.
Kim would have found it funny if she weren't so terrified.  She drifted to the door, but she couldn't make herself go through it.
Congress is kinship.  A family, laughing together.
Push yourself through it, Sky insisted.  Come to me.
Kim reached out and tried to touch the door.  She felt her wrists hit the bonds in the booth and immediately she felt herself losing control, sliding back into her body.
Sky violently wrenched her back.  Go through it, he commanded.  Get away.
Kim pushed herself through the door, feeling its viscosity and its impenetrable hardness at the same time.  Behind her, the voices continued to fade.  She felt herself detaching, losing more and more sensations.  She hesitated again, and this time Sky grabbed her and yanked her away, until she felt nothing at all.
What are you doing to me? Kim asked.
I'm separating you from your body, Sky said.
Kim was afraid, but she couldn't feel her heart pound.  I'm going to die?
No.  Come over here.
Kim saw him sitting with the others and drifted to him.  The world around her was utterly silent.  Sky's face was strained, his forehead tight.  She tried to reach out and smooth his brow, but no fingers appeared.  Bodiless, she settled into his chest.  All around her, she felt his heart beating, his muscles contracting, his lungs working.  It was strangely comforting, intensely natural.
Thank you, Sky, she whispered.  She was staring at the curl of his intestines, watching them contract as he digested his last meal.
Lasagna, she realized.  She could feel the intimate parts of the cheese, the meat, the flour that had gone into the noodles.  The 'indigenous' foods that the aliens had fed them had, so far, been the only positive aspect of the entire trip.
Remember what I told you, Kim.  If I don't make it, you have to do it alone.
Kim felt a flash of anger and quickly pulled out of his body before she accidentally hurt him.  Sky, you're going to make it.  You're a Minder.
Minders are more susceptible to things like this, Kim.
Kim frowned and dove back into Sky.  She found the little slivers of metal embedded in his brain, like thorns festering beneath the skin.  She touched one with her mind.
No.  Leave them.  They'll know.  I don't want to do anything that might risk your exposure.  Besides, as soon as they found them missing, they'd implant them again.  Leave them until we get away from them.
Kim backed away, placated somewhat.  He had used the term 'we'.  She turned to the Ooreiki guard sitting beside Sky.  Fascinated, she moved closer, studying the smooth, barbed skin, the remains of non-functioning suction cups on the tips—useless leftovers abandoned after eons of evolution.  She pushed herself further, finding the six humming little balls pumping a thin, watery fluid through the huge, open sac that was the Ooreiki's abdomen.  She was about to pull away when her consciousness settled over a glowing golden ball located deep in its center, secured by tiny cushions of membrane.  Unlike the rest of the Ooreiki's body, of which she could feel every substance, right down to its most basic parts, this was a blank in her mind, a black hole of unknown.  She moved to examine it.
No, Sky said, pulling her back.  There are some things you can't touch.
What is it? Kim wondered.
A lifestone.
Kim frowned.  So they're minders?
No.  Go back now.  They're finished with you.
Kim hesitated.  Please don't let them hurt you, Sky.
I'll try, Kim.
She considered returning to Sky's head and destroying the metal bands anyway, but she retreated instead.  She paused over the top of the booth.  I trust you, you pointy-eared bastard.  Then she fell back inside.
The lid opened above her and an Ooreiki bent down to help her out.  Kim felt weak, her muscles shaky and limp.  She tasted bile on her lips.  Her head pounded.
The Ooreiki led her out into the waiting room.  She passed Sky on his way inside and he grabbed her hand, stopping her just long enough to wrap her fingers back around her grandmother's emerald and gold pendant.  When she met his eyes she could see his fear, feel it permeating the very walls of the place. 
Are you going to be okay? Kim asked.
He gave her a nervous smile, then followed his Ooreiki guard inside.  The door dripped shut behind them and Kim panicked.
Sky?  You'd better live through this.
Her Ooreiki guard had taken her back to their communal room and had left her alone under a blanket when she felt the familiar brush of his mind.
Has it started? She wondered.
Soon, he replied.  Are you sure I can do this?
Sky, I'd go through a thousand times with Julian if it helped you stay sane.
She felt Sky's mind harden suddenly and knew the images had begun.  Still, Sky did nothing.  She could feel him withdrawing, pulling back into his own body.
Sky, damn it, if you don't survive this, I'll never be able to ask you to fix what Julian did.  Not by changing things in my head, either.  By giving me new, better memories.  Memories of you.
It will hurt.  Worse than last time.  I'll need the strongest memories.  Memories you've tried to forget.
I don't care.  What could be worse than Julian?
Sky seemingly made a decision, for at that moment, he plunged into her mind, surrounding himself in her memories as she had surrounded herself in his essence.  He dredged up the death of her grandmother, the moment she gasped and reached for her chest while they were out picking blueberries, the way she collapsed, leaving Kim alone with a corpse.  Kim hadn't understood.  She'd prodded and pulled, trying to wake her grandmother up for hours until her father found them.  She had been three.
Distantly, Kim heard herself crying, babbling, but the memories continued.
The funeral afterwards.  The pyre they built to send her to the stars.  Sparks gliding into the night, her grandfather shaking as he cried in the ruddy light, her mother's arms around him.
Grandfather's death, only five days afterwards.  Kim and her mother found him dead beside his bed when they went to bring him fresh bread.  He'd been clutching their grandmother's necklace.  His warm, gentle hands had been cold and dead.
Kim curled into a ball.
The pyre, her grandfather's hair shriveling and burning away.  The fire licking his face, burning him.  The smell of burned meat.
She shuddered, tears wetting the cloth under her cheeks.
Her mother, walking along the path to the river, a basket in one hand, Kim clinging to her other.
"Please..." Kim heard herself rasp.
A brown-eyed stranger stepping from the woods, smiling, a big hunting knife gleaming in his fist.  Mother dropping her basket, pushing him away.  Falling.  Screaming.
Kim broke into unintelligible sobs, her entire body wracked with pain.
Her brown-eyed brother being born.  Her father's hatred.  A bundle left at the Minder temple, crying, little fists batting the air.
"Stop," she whimpered.
The images ended abruptly. 
Shuddering, Kim closed her eyes and cried.
#
Kim sat up suddenly, realizing what she'd done.
Sky!
He did not respond.
Panic clawed at her chest as she sat up.  Sky!  God, Sky, I'm sorry!
The scarlet-tinged room was filled with sleeping forms.  Sky lay next to her, his brows smooth.  Kim's ribs clamped down on her heart and she forgot to breathe.  What if he left me alone?  "Sky?"  Gingerly, she got out of bed and knelt beside him.  She touched his arm.  It was warm, limp.  She shook it gently.  "Please, Sky.  Please wake up."
His blue eyes snapped open suddenly, the darkness in them making her jerk away from him in sudden fear.
"Oh God I'm so sorry.  I forgot—"
I'm sorry I hurt you, Kim, he said, on a burst of sadness.  His face twisted with grief.  It will always haunt me that I brought those things back to you.
Her heart caught in her throat.  "You're all right?"
I'm a coward, he went on, tight-faced.  I never should have accepted your off—
Kim squealed and threw her arms around him and climbed atop him to start kissing him, repeatedly, wherever she could find skin.  "I love you, Sky.  Don't you dare scare me like that again, you pointy-eared prick."
Slowly, almost tentatively, Sky reached up and wrapped his arms around her back, pulling her into him. 
I love you too, my blunt-eared friend.
Kim pulled back to squint at him.  "So you're good?  Not brainwashed into thinking you're an alien or something?"
I'm good.  On his back, Sky nodded up at her, looking almost in awe.  You saved me.
"And I'd do it again in an instant," Kim said, emphatically.  "Anything you ever need.  I'm here."  As she spoke, she felt his warm body pressed against hers, crushed between her and the bed, and felt something against the crux of her legs unmistakably hardening.  Her gaze caught Sky's and she froze, trapped by his intensity and intent.
He really is in love with me, she realized, frozen at the desire she saw there.  What the hell do I do?
Sky was the first to break contact, clearing his throat embarrassedly as he looked away.  "We should probably sleep," he said.
"Yes!  Great idea!" she cried, scrambling off of him, her face burning, completely unable to believe she'd been gazing into his eyes like a lovestruck teenager.  "I'll, uh...just go to bed.  Yep.  Good night!"
Someday, Kim.
Kim made a nervous sound.  "Someday what, Pointy?"
Someday you'll ask.
She narrowed her eyes, her embarrassment instantly gone.  "Girls don't ask."
You will.  And then, without another word, he began to snore.







CHAPTER 7: Escape
"What is it, Rri'jan?"
The Huouyt stood at the edge of the room, white cilia rippling across his body in disgusting waves.  He was watching a scene from earlier that day replay across the monitor in front of him.  The disgraced former Representative turned to look up at Kragkhen, not bothering to keep his gaze low, the disrespect of which made Kragkhen tense.  "There's something strange about that Human."
"Which Human?"  Kragkhen had just eaten a fresh Takki and he was finding it hard to stay awake.  The Huouyt's presence was an annoyance that would not be endured much longer.
"The one with the strange ears.  He never talks."
"He talks.  We both saw it."
"He had an odd accent."
Kragkhen's scales tightened to his body.  "You're bothering me about an accent, you worthless Huouyt?!"  The Ze'laa assassin who had fled Koliinaat for his conspiracy with the Geuji clearly still believed himself to be an equal, and often needed to be reminded of his status. Now that the former head of Ze'laa was on the run from the Regency, Kragkhen literally held his life in his hands by granting his asylum, and having a former Representative scraping before him was proving less interesting than he had initially expected.
That, and Kragkhen had to wonder if Tryyven's fall had something to do with accepting the 'help' of this disgraced creature.  It was Rri'jan's mind alone that interested Kragkhen now.  It was a mind that had made even a Geuji dance to his whim, and if there was anything off about the Humans, Rri'jan would be the first to see it.
"I'm bothering you about this."  The Huouyt unceremoniously picked up the screen and held the rounded window up for Kragkhen to see.  Replaying across it was a scene with the deformed human and the female that claimed to hate him.  She spoke...then spoke again...then spoke again.  Throughout, the male never showed a flicker of a response.
Some of Kragkhen's irritation faded as he sat up to get a better look.  "So the female's a simpleton."
"Or the deformed one is something more."  Rri'jan returned the circular screen to the desk thoughtfully.
"Like what?" Kragkhen demanded.
"My lord, what was it that Congress tried to get rid of when it attacked Earth?"
Kragkhen felt his scales compress against his chest.  "Test him.  Do it now.  Test all of them." 
Rri'jan bowed.  "As you desire.  I will inform the Overseer immediately."
"No."  Kragkhen was on his feet, now, his claws digging into the padded floor. 
Rri'jan, the traitor, hesitated in his bow.  "'No', your majesty?"
"If he knew, he would inform his brother first, and Verbhan would find some excuse as to why present-day Humans were not at fault just to spite me.  Either that, or have all Humans slaughtered before Dhasha could lay any claim to them.  I want to be the first to bring it to the Tribunal.  Gives the bleeding-heart Ooreiki lawyers less time to prepare an argument against Dhasha seizure."
"Kerjia could make your life difficult if he discovers we've illegally hidden knowledge of genetic abnormalities for Dhasha benefit..."
"Kerjia is a declawed Takki," Kraghen snapped.  "Go test them.  Quietly.  Bring the results to me only."
"As you wish, my lord."  Rri'jan bowed low and departed.
Kragkhen felt his talons sink through the last layer of cushions and dig into the floor, rage and excitement making orange saliva begin to slip from between his triangular black teeth and spatter upon the floor.  Already, he could envision the Dhasha armada returning to Earth, the massive harvests of genetically stable slaves, the ekhta blowing the rest to bits.
Perhaps the disgraced politician was good for something, after all.
#
The other captives, Kim noticed uneasily, were never the same.  They seemed to remember everything about Earth, but cared about none of it—not their abandoned homes, not their families missing them, not their professions, not their livestock or friends.  All they could talk about was Congress, and they did it with the happy enthusiasm of wide-eyed children. 
This time, when Overseer Kerjia spoke, instead of fidgeting or their attention wandering, they listened raptly, eyes wide and excited, soaking up every word.
For their part, Sky made Kim pretend Congress was all she could talk about, too, even going so far as to wrest her tongue away from her when she wasn't enthusiastic enough.  He made her ask the Ooreiki Overseer pointed questions about Congress and forced her to look attentive when he would dive into a long, mind-numbing dissertation about the wonders of the alien union. 
When Kim was so bored she could barely keep her eyes open, let alone pretend she was interested, the Overseer told them to return to their rooms—they would be resupplying at a Congressional outpost before continuing to Koliinaat.
Everyone obeyed without question, filing after their lone Ooreiki guard with an underlying aura of excitement.
They're happy, Kim thought as she watched the others.  They really believe what they're being told about Congress saving us.
For the record, most of it's true, Sky said.  Kerjia's actually not evil.  He doesn't believe a lot of the propaganda, but he knows he must say it.  He's doing his best to avoid another war.  They all are.  The Dhasha would harvest Earth to a man if they could.  The ones out here aren't like the ones back home.  They like the way we taste.  Kerjia's trying to make sure Humans don't get turned into food.
Kim grimaced, but didn't respond in case the Ooreiki Overseer escorting them could overhear.  Kerjia looked ugly with his wrinkled black skin and heavy, squat form, but he was far from stupid.  Twice now, she'd caught him watching Sky intently, almost as if he were realizing something was different about the Minder, only to have Sky turn to him, smile, and Kerjia shake himself and walk away.
Today, Kerjia didn't even carry a weapon.  He escorted them back to their room, gave them a quick briefing on what they would be taught the next morning, then locked them inside.  While the others started babbling excitedly about the things they had learned that day, Kim stared at the wall that had been a door.  Earlier, back when Sky had dragged her out of her body and into the waiting area, she had passed through a similar door.  The eerie, unnatural feel continued to cling to her like a million tiny spiders drifting across her skin.  She put her hand to it, considering what it would take to dissolve it into water.  It shouldn't be difficult...
You won't need to, Sky said.  Get ready.  We're leaving.
Not thirty seconds later, the sticky black door dripped into the floor, revealing a smallish, squat Ooreiki standing on the other side.
"Come," the Ooreiki ordered through the translator.  "We have another set of tests for you."  When the other seven occupants of the room leapt up excitedly, the Ooreiki waved them off and glared at Kim and Sky.  "Just these two."
Kim stiffened, but beside her, Sky merely nodded and followed.
"Why just us?" Kim asked, nervous.
"Silence," the Ooreiki said, as if he were Ruler of the World and she were but an annoying gnat.
What's he doing with us, Sky? Kim asked, as they continued to walk down the narrow corridors, further than they'd ever walked before.
The Minder ignored her, his platinum brow knotted, attention focused on the Ooreiki's back.
They accompanied the Ooreiki down the hallways in silence, passing several other black-clad aliens along the way.
"These tests should only take a moment," the Ooreiki said, pausing at an ornate, heavy-duty looking archway.  He slapped the wall and motioned for them to enter the tubular hall that appeared on the other side.  Once they were through, he slapped the wall behind him, shutting them inside this new section of the ship.
On the other side, a couple black-clad Ooreiki gave them and their guide curious looks, but went back to what they were doing.
"Where are you taking us?" Kim asked.  Up until this point, she'd only seen a handful of Ooreiki, and had almost gotten to the point of being able to recognize them by name.  Now, however, she could see dozens in a common room ahead of them, coming and going like busy travelers.  Some even carried bags or luggage of some sort.
"The tests are this way," the Ooreiki snapped, ushering them forward.  "Come."
Please let me kill him, Sky, Kim said.  I've got a really bad feeling about this.
Instead of responding, Sky continued to stare directly at the Ooreiki, and there was sweat pouring down his face from some inner strain.
Kim grabbed him by the arm and jerked.  "What's wrong with you?" she whispered.
Sky blinked at the contact, glancing at where she touched his arm a startled moment before quickly returning his attention to the Ooreiki.
The Ooreiki suddenly stopped ahead of them, then whipped around to face them, a look of rage on his face.  "I know what you—" Lightning-quick, reached for Sky with a thick brown tentacle.
Before he made contact with Sky's neck, however, his words cut off and the tentacle went limp. The Ooreiki's brown eyes, full of intelligence before, dulled and he turned back to face the passage ahead of them.  "Come.  The tests are this way."
He's hard to control, Sky replied.  Please let me concentrate.  He almost hurt me just now.
Remembering the look of fury on the Ooreiki's face—and the way Sky was full-body tense—Kim fought back fear.  What do you mean, hurt you, Sky?  Is he taking us somewhere to kill us?!
Please shhh.
They continued deeper into the ship, the hallways getting bigger, more used.  They passed Ooreiki on all sides, none of whom looked up nor cared.  Their guide brought them into a large room with at least a dozen milling aliens.  Most of them were wearing black.  He walked them to a podium, behind which a bored-looking Ooreiki stood guard.  He spoke a few sharp words in the alien language and the Ooreiki guard nodded.
The door melted open.
Kim's breath caught.  The room outside was colorful metals and fabrics and glass, not the unyielding, glossy black of the ship.  Her stomach did a flip when she realized the red bulk of a planet filled the windows above their heads.
"Move!" the Ooreiki snapped, shoving them into the enormous room.
Sky seemed equally overwhelmed by the crimson planet in the skylights above them.  He stared up at it in wonder for a moment before hurrying to catch up with their Ooreiki guide.
Where's he taking us? Kim asked, nearing panic as she wound her way through the myriad of strange creatures moving across the enormous room.  She blinked and hesitated when she realized one of them looked like a giant python with arms. 
"Don't block traffic in the station, jenfurglings," their guide barked.  The Ooreiki shoved her, sending her slamming into a small, delicate blue creature that garbled something angrily at her before hurrying on its way.
Just follow him.  I'll explain later.
The Ooreiki guided them through the alien throng, then paused at a doorway.  Above it, foreign letters stood out in bold, black letters.  At the door, their guide began arguing with a bald, yellow-green creature that looked like it belonged in a sewer pipe.  Kim tore her eyes away, glancing back out the window and the star-spattered void beyond.  Without Earth's atmosphere to dull the stars, they gleamed like multicolored gems clinging to the black of space.
It's beautiful, she thought.
Unnerving, Sky admitted.  It's so...empty.
Their guide suddenly ended his argument with the sewer alien and motioned for them to follow him into the hall beyond.  Kim smelled a clean scent resembling oregano as they padded across the cushioned floor.  On either side, windows opened onto the emptiness of space.  Again, she caught a glimpse of the red planet hovering above their heads.  She swallowed down nausea and forced her eyes to stay on the soft, gelatinous floor.
"Here," the Ooreiki said, pushing open a door in front of them.  "We'll need a new ship to do your tests."  It seemed to act more like doors Kim knew, moving in and upwards as he activated it.  On the other side, another greenish, bald septic alien squinted at them, its jet-black eyes narrowed as it eyed each of them in turn.
Their guide spoke with it, then pulled a silver-black bead from its vest and gave it to the creature.  The creature bowed immediately, its smooth, discolored head reflecting the bright white lights set into the ceiling.  Then it turned and led them onto a new, much smaller ship.  Behind them, the door to the station closed with a hum.
#
It took Kragkhen seven days to realize Rri'jan had not returned.  Mostly, the lapse was due to the fact that two of the humans—the same two that Rri'jan had raised questions about—went missing sometime around the time Overseer Kerjia docked them at the outpost, and nobody seemed to recall them wandering the ship, nor seemed to find it at all strange that they were gone.  In fact, if it hadn't been for the ship's automatic roll count and the daily warnings that followed, no one would have cared at all.
Upon hearing that the Humans were gone, Kragkhen called Kerjia to his chambers.  The Ooreiki Overseer, instead of coming immediately, arrived several hours after his summons, a disdainful look on his smushed brown face.
"What, Kragkhen?"  The Overseer's sudah were fluttering with irritation—as they had been ever since the confusion wore off and they found themselves two passengers short.
"Watch your tone, Overseer."
"I don't have time for this."  Kerjia turned to go.
"Take us back to Earth.  I want more Humans."
Kerjia paused in the doorway to give him a calm look that showed none of the fear of the other quivering Ooreiki on the ship. 
Probably, of course, because Kragkhen could have realistically eaten any of the other Ooreiki on the ship without the Regency making too big a stink about it.  With Kerjia's rank and standing amongst his species, however, the scaleless bastard would be all but impossible to make disappear without a years'-long investigation that could, depending on the good will of the Regency, end with Kragkhen being forced to abdicate for 'abuse of power.'  Kragkhen snorted inwardly every time he thought about being charged with such a ridiculous crime.
The ramifications, however—even if it only resulted in an investigation with no charges—would be undeniably inconvenient.  So, as much as he wanted to over the last five and a half weeks, he hadn't eaten the uppity Ooreiki Overseer.
Seeing the impudent look on Kerjia's face, however, Kragkhen knew that was open to change.
"I'm not wasting another half rotation, Kragkhen," Kerjia said, as if it had been a request.  "We can make do with seven."
Kragkhen dug his talons into the floor at the intentional lack of an honorific.  "I gave you a command, Overseer."
"And I'm telling you you're out of your jurisdiction.  This is a Special Assignment from the Planetary Claims Board, of which you are not a member." 
Kragken felt his growl start to rumble in his chest.  "Don't think your brother's position protects you from my wrath, Kerjia."
"I don't need my brother's protection," the impudent Ooreiki said.  "I have the law.  And the law states that a Representative is not allowed to directly interfere in the repatriation of a species.  It means you'll recognize that, legally, Koliinaat gave this mission to me, Kragkhen, and your pretty scales and nasty black teeth mean utterly nothing to me.  The fact that you manipulated your way onto my roster is irrelevant.  Congress gave you no power here.  You are an observer, nothing more."
"I'm a member of the Tribunal," Kragkhen roared.  "Don't forget it."
Kerjia stared at him fearlessly.  "It's a shame what happened to your predecessor.  Mekkval was well-liked.  He didn't put his claws where they didn't belong."
"Right now, my claws are aching to slice you open, Ooreiki."
"He also did not overreact to innocent statements of fact."
Kragkhen snarled.  "I can always hire myself a ship once we reach Koliinaat."
"You'll have to," Kerjia said.  "I'm not turning around."
Kragkhen's scales were tight against his chest as he said, "I could contact the Tribunal.  I only need one other member to side with me before I have your head on a haauk, Overseer.  I could ruin your career.  Send you to Eeloir to register Huouyt."
Kerjia turned back to him and for a moment, Kragkhen thought he had won.
"The Humans weren't the only ones who fled the ship, Kragkhen.  I hear your pet Huouyt is missing as well.  The one who...oddly...never seems to have the same registration number each time I look.  How will Congress handle the fact that your own servant—one who is rumored to be none other than the notorious Rri'jan Ze'laa himself—helped them escape?  We have video of him in Ooreiki form, bargaining for entry onto a Jahul ship.  Further investigation revealed it to be registered under a false name.  A pirate ship."
Kragkhen stiffened.  "You lie."
Kerjia's face twitched in amusement.  "Do I, Kragkhen?  Perhaps you should do more research before you come to me with threats."  And then, without another word, Kerjia left, leaving Kragkhen alone in his chambers.







CHAPTER 8: Rri'jan's Gambit
Kim stared at the alien sitting stiffly in the chair across from hers, frowning.  With the tiny, moving white hairs covering its body, it looked like a descendent of Samuel Dobbs.  A shapeshifter, for sure.  It even had the piercing, lighting-white stare that so unnerved her every time she had seen them back on Earth. 
The one before her, however, lacked all human qualities she'd grown used to.  This one had long, paddle-like tentacles for arms and a triangular, pointed head.  It lacked fingers, accomplishing all of its tasks with the tips of the paddles, which were now steady against the chair arms, as they had been ever since Sky made him reveal his true form by forcing him to take a dunk in the huge tub in the bathing room of the alien inn, obviously built for a much larger alien type than they.
In the hallway outside the door to their room, a group of inn customers got into a brief argument, breaking her concentration as something thudded upon the wall before they stumbled off.
Neither Sky nor the alien, however, turned to look.  The alien was fixated on Sky, and Sky was tense as she'd ever seen him, staring back at the alien with sweat pouring down his face, his hands gripping the inn's solid metal table.  Earlier the night before, instead of leaving the fuzzy alien with the stinky alien on the ship like Kim had wanted, Sky had elected to drag him along, forcing him to pay for the room on the strange alien planet and then staying awake to keep him under control.  Even now, Kim could see the exhaustion in Sky's eyes, the trembling of his fingers as he fought the alien with his mind.
You can't stay awake forever, Sky, Kim said, for the hundredth time.  What are you planning to do with him?
We need his help.  I have to find a way to get him to help us, and he's blocking me.
Kim frowned.  Then make him stop blocking you.
I don't want to hurt him.
That crap again.  Kim groaned inwardly and looked the creature over, dubious that he would help them with anything at all, now that the cat was out of the bag. He'd not taken the knowledge that Sky could control his mind very well, and he'd been more or less unresponsive since they'd released him.
The downy white hairs were the only indication of the creature's emotions behind the silent, staring electric gaze.  Originally, as soon as Sky gave him back control of his body, they had flowed over him in rapid, quick, angry motions, lashing at the air like millions of tiny whips.  Now they were utterly still.
"What do you want?" the creature said again, completely emotionlessly.  "Why did you leave me alive?"
"Eat," Sky encouraged, motioning at the food on the table in front of him.  "We're not trying to hurt you." 
Without taking its eyes off of Sky, the downy creature hesitantly reached forward and wrapped the tip of its arm around a cone-shaped goblet.  He touched the steaming liquid to the slit in his face that Kim had assumed was a nose.  To her shock, a writhing mass of red worms erupted from the crevice, dabbling in the liquid.  The creature saw her staring and offered the goblet to her, the wormy appendage retracting back into its head.  Kim could sense its amusement.
Determined not to show her fear, she reached out to take the goblet from him.
Don't, Sky warned.  He's an assassin.  He could kill you in an instant.
Kim pulled her hand back immediately and the creature made a chiming, musical laugh before returning its gaze to Sky.  "You just warned her I could kill her, didn't you?"  It set the goblet back on the table.
"It seemed like the smart thing to do," Sky said.
Kim didn't like the acute intelligence in the thing's huge white-blue eyes.  "You don't have an accent.  You just aren't used to vocalization.  You mostly used your mind back on Earth, didn't you?"
"We're not your enemies," Sky said.
"What do you want?" the creature repeated.  "You've already destroyed my reputation.  I'll be killed on sight if I try to go back."
"You're lying."  Sky met the creature's gaze steadily.
The creature wiggled a paddle-like appendage.  "Perhaps there might be a way for me to return.  But why would I want to?  I never liked serving that stupid vaghi."
"You're lying."
Kim sighed.  "You can't lie to him."
The creature slowly turned to level its eerie gaze upon her.  "I'm beginning to see that."  He turned back to Sky.  "What is she?  Somehow I find it hard to believe she's another mind-reader.  A telekinetic, perhaps?"
"Eat," Sky repeated.
The creature turned its electric gaze to the table and plucked an orange, gummy pellet from the bowl of them.  This he touched to the slit in his face, which thankfully drew it in without giving Kim another glimpse of the disgusting red worms wriggling on the other side.
Calmly, the creature said, "A matter-manipulator, then."
"A Maker," Sky agreed.
"What do you want?" the creature repeated.  He had asked the same question a hundred times already and Sky had not answered him.
Why don't you tell him? Kim demanded.
Because I'm not sure we can trust him.  He is different than a human.  He has no conscience.
No conscience?  Kim frowned at the downy creature.  It was arrogantly lounging in the chair across the table from them as if it owned the Universe, plucking at the food they had provided, watching them exchange thoughts amusedly, looking absolutely unconcerned by the Minder's presence.  Almost as if the entire experience—including his own abduction—was entertaining him.  Then give him one.
I've thought about it.  The effort would probably put me out for several hours.  Even if it worked, I could not protect you until I woke up.
Then we should tie him up first.
He can slide loose of any bonds, slip out of any holding cell.
Then open me up to my second consciousness and I'll protect both of us, Kim said, getting frustrated.
I don't want you to kill him.  On that, Sky was as firm as he had always been.  No deaths.
I could just shape a box around him, she argued.  Something to hold him.
I don't know if you could hold it long enough.  Besides, he can kill faster than you can stop him.  It's second nature to them.
"Enjoying your little chat?" the creature asked, tucking another orange pellet into his face.  "I'm confusing you, aren't I?"  He was watching Sky carefully.  Too carefully.  Like a marketgoer analyzing a cow.
Kim didn't like the creature.  She found her dislike growing in her chest, like a slick of tar in her throat.  She wanted him to leave, to go back to where he came from and stop looking at Sky like that.
"What do you want?" the down-covered alien said again.  "It's the last time I'll ask.  I know you kept me alive for some reason and I'd like to know why." 
Both Sky and Kim remained silent.
The alien sighed and leaned back in his chair to lazily peruse them both.  "I understand you two are painfully new to this, but if you don't answer me, I'll start losing patience."
"We want to find someone," Sky said, and Kim immediately felt the balance of power in the room shift as if someone had handed the alien a crown—and given Sky a lobotomy.
"Ah."  The creature stuffed another orange blob into his mouth.  Kim felt like slapping it out of his grip and dumping him out of his chair, if only to put an end to the smug aura of calm emanating from him.
Why is he not afraid of us? Kim asked, scowling at the alien.
Their kind don't get scared like we do...and he thinks he's in control of the situation.
Hearing Sky's confirmation of her own gut feeling, Kim felt another wash of unease.  We should stop talking to him.  I don't like this, Sky.
We'll be fine.  He knows he can't get close to me.
But he's not afraid of you.
No.  Not at all.
He should be.
He knows I won't hurt him.
Then let me hurt him, Kim snapped.  She was willing to pull every hair on his body to make him scream if need be.
"So who is it you wish to find?" the alien interrupted casually.  "I was under the impression you humans had not rediscovered space flight."
Don't tell him, Kim thought.  I don't like him, Sky.  We should get rid of him.
If we let him go, he'll tell people about us and they'll attack Earth.
Then wipe his memory!  Just stop telling him stuff.
With an apologetic look at Kim, Sky said, I have to.  He knows the being we're looking for.  They used to work together.  Then, to the alien, he said gingerly, "The one we seek calls himself the Forgotten."
The creature's arm hesitated on the way to escorting another morsel into its mouth.  Slowly, it returned the orange blob to the bowl.  "Ah."  There was bitterness in his voice, but absolutely nothing showed in his white-blue, fishlike face.  "The Forgotten is never found.  Hence the name."
Oh, shut up, you smug son of a bitch, Kim thought, glaring at him.
"Joe Dobbs found him," Sky insisted.
The alien's face jerked from the bowl to look sharply at Sky.  "The Human Congie who killed Bagkhal on Neskfaat?  He was working with Forgotten the whole time?!"
"I don't think he was working with him, just that they met."
The alien relaxed a little.  "And?  What happened?"
"Joe decided not to kill him."
The creature stiffened slightly.  "Pity."  He stretched in his chair, giving Kim another unconcerned look before returning his attention to Sky.  "I wouldn't have made that mistake."
So does he know where to find Forgotten, Sky?  Just dig around in his head until you figure it out, then let me kick his ass for you.
He doesn't know, but I think he might be able to figure it out.  He's intentionally thinking of other things, though, Sky said, with a rush of impotent frustration.  He's distracting me.  He's smart, Kim.  And his mind is...rigid.  Really hard to manipulate.
Let me try.  "Hey," Kim said to the creature.  "Asshole."
The creature gave her a lazy glance.  "I don't believe anyone has ever referred to me as an orifice before."  His tentacle, however, tightened on the table.  "At least, none have lived to tell about it."
"Get used to it, jerk.  We're not playing around.  Tell us where to find Forgotten.  You think making you get us off the ship was bad?  Sky can make you do anything he wants."
The creature's downy hairs gave a brief flutter, then stilled.  "And what can you do to me, child?  Are you the brute strength behind the brains?"
Inwardly, Kim flinched.  That was, in fact, exactly what she was.
"Ah."  A smug looked crossed the creature's face and he reached for another orange gob.
Kim leaned forward and slapped the bowl away, sending them tumbling over the creature and onto the floor.  It tore its eyes from the empty spot on the table and leaned back to look at her.  "A temper like that is short-lived in Congress."  He plucked one orange gob from the black Congie cloth on his chest, his electric, white-blue eyes boring into her unreadably as he fed it into the wormy slit in his face.  "Short, because you don't live long."
"Don't threaten me," Kim snapped.
"Or you'll what?  Threaten me back?"  It ate the orange glob, watching her emotionlessly.  Kim hated the piercing stare, feeling as if it were driving needles through her skin, prying into places they shouldn't see, knowing things they shouldn't know.
You sure he can't read minds? she demanded.
He can't, Sky assured her, sweating again as he frowned at the creature.
"What's your name?" Kim asked.
The creature continued to watch her.  "Rri'jan."
"Can you find Forgotten for us?" Kim insisted, tired of Sky's passiveness.  "If you can't, then you're no use to us and there's no reason for us to keep you alive."
The slit in the alien's forehead pursed.  "I'm beginning to think you might be the brains, and him the brawn."
"Can you find him, or do I have to kill you?" Kim snapped.
"Can I?"  Their arrogant guest made a disgusted laugh through the translator.  "If I'd been able to find him, he would've been dead a long time ago.  He bankrupted my family and left me without enough ruvmestin to even purchase my own ship.  I will ensure he screams for turns before he dies, for what he did to the Ze'laa."
"Do you know how we can find him?"
"Ah.  She finally asks the right question."  The creature snorted.  "Unfortunately, I don't feel like you've given me adequate incentive to help you."  He reached forward and plucked an orange gob from her shirt where it had landed between her breasts.  Kim forced herself not to flinch.  As he put the gob into his mouth, he said, "Much less not kill Forgotten, given the chance."
"So what do you want?" Sky asked.
The creature gave Sky a wry look.  "Having trouble reading me, my mental friend?"  He returned his gaze to Kim.  "I want her."
Kim choked.  "What?"
"If I help you, I'll be officially cutting my ties with Congress.  I want the girl.  She entertains an old public servant where he's found nothing humorous in turns."
"I'm not for sale, asshole."
He gave her a piercing, totally emotionless stare.  "Everything is for sale."
Kim glanced at Sky, who was scowling at the creature hard enough to drive stakes through its head.  Unfortunately, it was not looking at Sky.  It was looking at her.
"What exactly do you want with me?" Kim ventured.
"A day with you, without your over-zealous protector to interrupt my enjoyment."
Kim did not like the sound of that.
"No," Sky said.
The creature languidly lifted its boneless arms and pressed them behind its head.  "You should consider before you decide.  You could never afford my normal rates."
"What are your normal rates?" Kim demanded.  With Sky's help, she could make him as much coin as he wanted.
"Blood.  Blood and power.  Neither of which you have to give."
Kim glanced at Sky.  "So why do you want to make this deal, instead?"
"I want to see how good a judge of character your friend is."  The creature's eyes slid toward Sky.  "Or not."
No, Sky told her.  We'll find him ourselves.
How? Kim demanded.
Don't tell me you're actually considering this.  Kim, he's a psychopath.  If you could see what I can see, you wouldn't be sitting that close to him, let alone be willing to spend a day with him.
But he can find the one we need, Kim insisted.  You said so.
If he kills you, the plan won't work.  It will mean the Minders go to war.
"How goes the debate?" the creature asked, popping another morsel into its mouth as it watched them.
Sky glared at him.  The bastard's enjoying this.  That's why he's doing it.  He wants to see me squirm.
I vote you give him a conscience, then I go with him.
He'd kill us both if I did.
After giving him a conscience?
He'd feel I'd wronged him.  Taken something valuable from him.  It would be justified, to him.
"A tough decision, isn't it?  Would it help if I told you I'd take the mind-reader, as long as I could drug him first."
Kim growled and lunged to her feet, knocking her chair to the floor.  "No."
"You, then."
"No," Sky snapped, standing to glower down at the creature.  "No more games.  You will help us or I will kill you."
Kim jerked to stare at Sky.  Was he serious?
"Your friend doesn't seem to believe you," the creature noted.  "Is it possible a being of the mind has problems destroying them?"
He's reading my thoughts, Kim thought, backing away from the electric stare.
No.  He's piecing things together.  Any scrap of information we give him will help him make judgments later.
So what do you want to do, Sky?  Are you really going to kill him?
No.  But we're going to scare him.  Concentrate on your second consciousness.
Kim frowned and tried to send her mind out of her body.  Her struggles gained nothing.  Sky finally gave her a nudge, freeing her.
"We are going to give you another option," she heard Sky say.  "If you don't like those incentives, we will kill you."  Target the hairs on his body, Kim.  Pick one and destroy it.  Make it hurt.
She felt an evil smile creep over her physical face.  My pleasure.  She pulled in close enough to sense the tiny fibers running through each individual hair—nerves that connected the outer skin to the creature's core.  She began to stimulate the hair's base materials, heating it.  Eventually, it caught fire.
The creature let out a scream and jerked away from her.  Sky caught him and held him in place.  Do it again.  More this time.
Kim did.
The creature's mask returned.  It showed no fear at all, no jerk of pain.  Its eyes were cold as it watched them.  "Are we finished here?"
Sky glanced away, allowing the creature to move again.
I should kill him now, Kim thought, gazing at the little orange sacs floating inside the creature's chest cavity.  She moved closer.
Sky suddenly jerked her back into her body.  I'll go with him.  He wants to scare me, nothing more.
"No!" Kim snapped, rounding on Sky.
"Ah."  The creature turned to look at Sky.  "I see we've reached our decision."  Then, without warning, it snapped an arm up and forward, tapping his tentacle lightly against Sky's neck.
Sky collapsed.
#
Kim stared at her fallen friend, stunned.  "What did you do?"
The creature unconcernedly sat back down in his chair, reclining as he looked up at her.  "So tell me, child, were you the one who pulled out my breja or was it your friend?"
"I set them on fire," Kim said, panic filling her chest.  "And I'll do it again if you don't help him."
"I don't think so.  You're afraid.  I think it was your talented friend who hurt me."  He reached a tentacle over the table, toward Sky.
"No!" Kim snapped.  "It was me."  Sky's eyes were wide open, his face completely blank.  She wanted to rush to him, to check his pulse, but the creature sat between them, smirking up at her.  Furious, she balled her hands into fists.  Beside her, the creature's goblet disintegrated, puddling water and green liquid across the table.
"Ah."  The creature's eyes held the growing stain on the table.  "I believe you."
"So help him!" Kim snapped.
Rri'jan's unreadable white-blue eyes found her grandmother's pendant, nestled between her breasts.  "That little stone must be very valuable to you, for you to have hidden it from the Ooreiki."  He casually leaned forward to touch it.
Kim automatically slapped his hand away.
Rri'jan cocked his downy, cylindrical head at her, looking curious.  "First, perhaps I should explain the situation.  Your friend has received a small dose of a unique poison.  If he does not receive the antidote within twenty tics, he will remain in a vegetative state for the rest of his life.  Only I know where the antidote is and how to apply it, and I assure you, no amount of pain will convince me to give it to him."  He leaned back, settling his paddle-like arms against the chair on either side of him.  "So.  Let us talk, shall we?"
When Kim did not move, he motioned at her chair.  "Sit."
She did, though her spine was as rigid as a tent pole.
"I will ask you a series of questions.  If I do not like the answers, then I will kill you or leave, it is my choice.  If you tell me truthfully, then I will revive your friend.  Are you ready for my first question?"
Kim bit her lip and nodded.  Tears were forming in her eyes.  Slumped over the table, Sky had stopped breathing.
"Question One.  What is the best way to kill a telepath, should I not have my poisons with me?"
Kim shuddered and looked away.
"Answer me."
"Catch him while he sleeps."
"Ah.  So a god cannot protect himself whilst he rests.  Good to know.  Are you ready for question Two or should I leave now?"
Kim nodded, tears leaking from her eyes as she watched Sky.
"Question Two.  How powerful is he?  How far can he see?  How far can he reach?"
"I don't know," Kim whispered.  "He saw you coming."
"Clearly, otherwise he wouldn't have been able to convince me I had to 'test' you in an unregistered pirate ship.
"I mean on Earth."
The creature's breja rippled in a wave before he contained his surprise.  "He saw us while we were still in space?"
Kim felt her lip quiver.  "Please help him."
"Not yet.  My next question isn't so much a question as a statement that I want you to confirm.  It's humans like him who've tamed the Dhasha on your planet, isn't it?"
Kim nodded.
"Ah."  The creature tapped a tentacle on the table between them.  "What a delicious concept.  He could have killed everyone on that ship if he'd wanted to, couldn't he?"
She nodded again.
"And he wanted us to take him on our ship.  Both of you.  He planned it."
"Yes," she whispered.
"Why?"
Kim took a shaking breath.  The creature watched her, its electric-blue eyes boring into hers unwaveringly.  "He wanted to avoid a war."
Again, the creature's breja showed his startlement.  "Avoid a war?  You weren't planning on destroying Koliinaat?"
Kim shook her head hard.  "Sky can't kill people."
"Ahhh."  The creature traced a tentacle across the table near Sky's head.  "It's as I thought.  Crippled by empathy."  He brushed Sky's platinum hair tenderly with a downy tentacle.  Kim bristled, fighting the urge to rip his arm away from her friend.  She balled her fists and looked away, tears stinging her eyes.
"So tell me, girl," the alien said, pulling his hand from Sky.  "You are trying to avoid a war, yet you seek out the Geuji.  Why?"
"I don't know," Kim said.  "Sky knew that.  He thought it could help us."
"And how would you pay?" the creature demanded.  "The Geuji's rates are a thousand times my own."
"I don't know," Kim whispered.  "Please help him."
The creature leaned forward until its huge, electric blue-white eyes were almost touching hers.  Kim leaned backward, trying to get away from him, but afraid to get out of her chair.
Then, slowly, the creature's head turned and studied the drying puddle of liquid on the table.  "Ah.  It's you."
"What?"
"What is the one thing the Forgotten wants more than anything else in the world?  Something everyone but him has from birth?"
Kim shook her head, not understanding.
The creature reached out and touched her arm.  She felt a slight sting and her body went numb.
"It induces motor paralysis, nothing more," the creature said, standing up.  "I have no urge to kill either of you...yet...but you're much too dangerous to take on a jaunt through Congress until I've had more time to research Human biology."  He gave her an amused look, his fishlike eyes flat.  "Thus, forgive me for the hasty departure, but I'd like to be off the station before your friend wakes back up."  He looked her over carefully.  "Whereas you, I suspect, are much more useless than the two of you let on, otherwise you would have negated the poisons already." 
Negate the poison!  Kim's heart leapt into her throat, her blood rushing painfully through her veins.  She couldn't so much as twitch her finger to help Sky, but maybe she could reach her second consciousness...
"The one I used on you is short-lived, as it is absorbed through the epidermis and quickly breaks down upon contact with a living body."
The creature looked down at her, its piercing blue-white gaze pinning her to the chair.  "As soon as it wears off, take this and press it into your friend's skin.  Near the artery in his neck would be ideal, but anywhere will work."  From the loose black folds of the damp Ooreiki shirt that no longer fit, he pulled out a small black vial.  Inside, he plucked out a tiny red splinter no longer than the tip of a toothpick.  This he set on the metal table between them.  It was almost invisible against the worn tabletop, looking more like a scratch or a hair than Sky's life.  "Use it on him, and he'll live.  Just be sure not to prick yourself, because there's only one dose."
"And now, if you don't mind, I must depart.  No doubt my master misses his devoted servant, and I have such interesting tales to tell him."  The creature bent, reached between her breasts, and retrieved her grandmother's pendant.  "But before I go..."  As Kim screamed inwardly and tried ineffectually to pull away, he gently lifted the chain from her hair and held it up to the light.  With obvious confusion, he said, "It appears to just be a stone."  He hesitated, looking down at her a moment, clearly pondering that.
Then, pendant in hand, he departed, leaving Kim to stare at her friend's unbreathing form.
He's leaving Sky to die.
Kim struggled inwardly, trying to plunge herself into her second consciousness so she could kill the Huouyt for what he'd done.  She remained firmly lodged in her body, feeling its dead weight all around her.  She had nothing to do but watch Sky's eyes glaze, his skin turn pale.
Kim was shaking all over by the time she finally began to regain feeling in her core.  Her chest and abdomen was first, followed by her thighs and upper arms.   As soon as she was able, she stumbled out of the chair and groped for the tiny red splinter.  It was a maddening effort to grasp it without pricking herself, her numb fingers making it no easier for her.  When she finally had it pinched between her thumb and forefinger, she leaned forward and pressed it into Sky's neck.
Nothing happened.
Kim tried again, with the same effect.
Rage wrapped itself around her core, wresting her control from her in a surge of fury.  Kim threw the splinter, her shaking fingers tightening into fists, the nails biting bloody crescents into her palms.  She closed her eyes and pushed herself into her second consciousness, her wrath lighting the path for her.  Negate the poison, she thought in desperation.  Negate the poison...  Immediately, the world took on the brighter vibrance of dancing molecules of energy.
She found Sky slumped against the table, noticed the mark where she'd stabbed him with the sliver, saw the chemical from the cure laced throughout his system...
...a chemical that was shutting down Sky's cells, not fixing them.  A chemical that was identical to the one that had already been paralyzing him.
The monster didn't give me the cure, Kim realized, with a wash of rage.  He tried to make me finish the job.
Identifying every molecule of the foreign substance within her friend, Kim grabbed it all in her mind and shifted it to water.
"Sky!" she snapped, grabbing a shoulder and shaking him.  "Wake up!"
Her friend remained motionless, staring, his cells barely moving in his veins.  She willed them to move faster, but she could only watch them slow, watch him die...
"Please!" Kim screamed.
Sky remained lifeless, head lolling uselessly on the table.
She knew then she would kill the alien.  As soon as she had the thought, Kim pushed herself out of the room and down the hall the monster had taken, carried by grim purpose.  She found the creature wandering in the common room of the enormous alien inn, once more in Ooreiki form.  She closed in on him, pushing herself through hundreds of bodies, until she was hovering in front of him.  He walked on, oblivious.
Kim found the wormy red core inside the creature's head.  She grasped it with her mind and—
Distantly, Sky gave a sudden, wrenching gasp.
Kim snapped back to her body and turned.
The Minder was staring, blinking, sucking in huge breaths as his fingernails clawed the table, eyes rolling like a terrified animal.
"Sky?" she whispered.
Sky leapt out of the chair, still gasping, his mind expanding into the room like a thunderclap.  Kim cried out and threw her hands over her ears, desperately trying to block out the sudden mountainous pressure squeezing at her mind, crushing her.  "Sky, it's me."  Her words were only a whisper, a plea.
If Sky heard her, he showed no sign.  His chest was working too hard to be natural.  He turned to stare at her, the pallor of his face being replaced with a bright, choking red.  His eyes found her, focused with a desperate intensity, and he gasped a sob and stumbled towards her, arms reaching.  Then, with another sputtering gasp, his eyes rolled into the back of his head and he collapsed.







CHAPTER 9: Failed Plans
The mood in their rented room was dour upon Sky's awakening that evening. 
"Can't you find him?" Kim asked.
He shook his head once, staring at the metal table beneath his elbows.
"So we're just going to let him go tell everybody about us?  Not do anything?"
Sky did not answer her.
"Fine," Kim said.  "Screw him.  We don't need him anyway.  How are we gonna find Forgotten?"
Rri'jan thinks of him as Betrayer, Sky said.  He hates that creature more than he hated Joe Dobbs.  Now he knows he's still alive, and he's going to try to kill him.
"Why would he hate Joe Dobbs?" Kim asked, stunned.  The aliens had heard of their Founder?
It's complicated, Kim.  Sky sounded tired, worn.
"Oh, get up, you self-pitying asshole."  Kim shoved his elbows out from under him, making him straighten.  "Figure out a way for us to get out of here.  Right now.  Stop feeling sorry for yourself."
Sky rolled his eyes and made like he was going to return to his sulking.
"I mean it!" Kim cried, slapping the table in front of him with a metallic ring.  "What are we gonna do?"
He gave her an irritated glance. I really am tired.  I almost died today.
"Oh boohoo," she snapped.  "We're stuck on an alien planet because of you, Sky.  I'm not letting you pout."
I'm not pouting.
"You are!  That thing humiliated both of us and you're feeling sorry for yourself."
A wave of guilt crashed into her mind, slopping all over her thoughts.  She had started to curl into an unhappy ball when she realized the emotion was not hers.  It was Sky's.  He's feeling guilty because he couldn't help me and the alien could have taken me away.
The feelings faded and Sky heaved a huge sigh.
"See?" Kim said.  "You are feeling sorry for yourself.  I couldn't protect you.  If it makes you feel any better, I told him he could kill you in your sleep."
Sky twitched and squinted up at her.  "Why would you do that?"
"Because he was going to kill you if I didn't, Sky."
Her friend winced and looked at his hands.
"So," Kim said, "How about we call it even and you get off your ass?  I couldn't get out the door by myself, let alone travel to find some creature I've never even seen a picture of."
Sky took a deep breath, then pushed himself away from the table and stood.  There might be a way.
"And?" Kim asked.  "Why haven't you done it yet?"
His mouth tightened.  Because I'd have to expand myself everywhere, into everything.  I'd have to search for him myself.
Kim's eyes widened.  "You can do that?"
It would take days.  Maybe weeks.  The entire time I'd be helpless to protect either of us.
"Then find that asshole who put you under and make him think he's a toad for the rest of his life."
The asshole is a trained assassin.  He's using the same techniques to block my thoughts as he would to defeat Congressional mind-reading machines.
"Well, he can't do it forever."
No.  But by the time he decides to stop, it will be as hard to find him as the Forgotten.
"So find the Forgotten.  I'll protect you."
For the first time in days, Sky grinned.  I'd like to see that.
You almost did, she thought, remembering how close she'd been to killing the assassin. 
Sky touched her hand, frowning.  You did it without me?  Put yourself into your higher self?
"Because I wanted to murder someone," Kim said.  Then, flushing, she thought, And save you.
You're close, Sky said, squeezing her fingertips.  Maybe you'll be able to protect me, after all.
"You're damned right."
#
There.
The mind was unlike anything Sky had ever felt before, like an entire race combined into one.  Billions of thoughts emanated from a tiny point in space, mostly regarding the economy of a small Ueshi pleasure-planet.  He focused, drawing himself in closer.
He'd found a thousand others of the same species, but this creature was different.  His mind didn't have the sluggish feel of someone drugged.  He was alone, without anyone else watching over him, spying on him.  He also emanated anger, frustration, and hurt—and loneliness.  So much loneliness.
It was painful, monitoring the creature.  It was like a thousand little needles in his brain, all pressing deeper into his skull.  Eventually, unable to take the painful onslaught anymore, Sky had to retreat.
#
"You sure took long enough," Kim muttered, watching Sky stir.  She sat cross-legged on the end of the bed, picking at a plate of shriveled black stuff that looked like large insect legs.  "Hungry?"  She proffered the plate.
Sky blinked at the plate.  Yes, but I think I'll pass.
"No kidding."  She wrinkled her nose and set it aside.  "I tried making myself some real food, but only got a mush."
You'll get better, Sky assured her.  Until then...  He gently nudged her out of her body.  Please make us something to eat.
It was the first time Kim had been in her second consciousness with the intention of changing something since the assassin had almost killed them.  She hesitated, glancing around the room.  She settled on one of the chairs positioned around the table.  She drifted over to it, examining the essence of the thing, right down to its basest forms.  Like everything in her second consciousness, it was beautiful.  Only her hunger kept her from studying it longer.
Once she was sure she could reproduce it, she willed it to change.  The chair shimmered under her concentration, then folded in on itself.  Half became spaghetti noodles.  The other half became red sauce with chunks of beef and a hint of wine.  They splattered over each other as they fell to the floor.
Sky eyed the enormous pile with a raised brow.  "Hungry?"
"Starving," Kim said, pushing herself reluctantly back into her body.  "The food around here sucks."  She dumped the insect-legs on the floor and scooped several fistfuls of steaming red sauce and noodles onto the empty plate, wincing and licking her fingertips when it burned.  She brought the plate back to the bed and set it on the insanely itchy blanket between them.
"So where is he?" Kim asked as she ate.
"In space."
Kim felt her brow quirk.  "It took you six days to discover that?"
Sky gave her an irritated look.  It's one mind in an entire universe.  You should be grateful it didn't take a hundred times that.
Kim grunted and licked spaghetti sauce off her fingers.  "You weren't the one stuck in a hotel room, eating bugs."
You're right.  I wasn't eating anything at all.  To his credit, Sky was slurping up huge fistfuls of spaghetti, looking positively barbaric.  Kim watched him, a little awed at his enthusiasm.
"So is that why you're so skinny?" she asked.  "You're always out of your head so you forget to eat?"
I'm skinny because my brain uses up twenty times more energy than a normal person.
Kim narrowed her eyes.
You asked.
Sky finished the spaghetti and held the plate up for more.  Muttering, Kim took it and reloaded it for him.  Then she sat and watched him gorge himself a second time, wondering when he would burst.
"So how do we find him?" Kim asked.  "We don't have a ship.  Those stinky little green guys took off.  We don't know anybody except our waiter, and he's under the impression I'm some sort of bug-eating arachnid."
I had to hide our identities from him.
Kim wrinkled her nose.  "Wouldn't it be better if you make them think we were Ooreiki?"
You don't want to know what Ooreiki eat.
He was probably right.  Kim shuddered, rubbing her arms.  "So what do we do now?"
Sky set the spaghetti aside and stood up.  "We find Forgotten."







CHAPTER 10: One Week
Kim eyed the other aliens on the ship, wishing she could read their minds.  They, like the first ones, were small and mottled green-yellow, and stank like they had just crawled out of a sewage pipe.  Their smooth skins were stretched taut against their bony bodies, leaving a stinking yellow slime wherever one of their four hands grazed an object—like Kim's arm. 
It wasn't their odor that worried her, though.  It was the way they were constantly eying the two of them when they thought she wasn't looking.
Like they'd sell them back to the Ooreiki in a heartbeat, should they happen to run into an Ooreiki ship en route to wherever they were headed.
Don't worry about them, Sky told her.  They think we're Jreet.
Jreet?  What the hell was a Jreet?
Sky shoved an image into her mind of the big, snakelike red thing she'd almost run into in the terminal outside the Ooreiki ship.  She gave a startled gasp.  They do?  Man, they must be wetting their pants.
Pretty close to it.
Days went by, or at least Kim figured they were days.  She ate and slept whenever she felt like it, and her mental clock began to twist itself into a panic.  There was no change in the constant, brilliant white ship light.  In its own way, the Jahul super-bright lighting was just as bad as the Ooreiki's dull reds.  She had to pull a blanket over her head to sleep, not that it did her much good.  The entire ship was one big, communal room, and she could always feel the Jahuls' unnatural, jet-black eyes on her, even with the cover over her head.
Homesickness for Earth began to hit her in force.  She missed the grass, the birds, the running water.  To fall asleep at night, Kim closed her eyes and imagined a soft breeze whispering against a stand of birch.  Her memories of Earth were becoming more and more like a happy dream, one she would never visit again.
Sky, I want to go home.
Not yet, Sky said.  You'll go home after we're done saving Earth.
Kim snorted irritably.  Around her, Jahul panicked and backed away, their waist-high heads bobbing obsequiously.  You should have asked me, Sky.  You never asked me if I wanted to leave.
You would have said no.
He was right.  If she'd known even half of what was about to happen to her in Sky's company, she would've done her best to crush his ridiculous hat into his skull with the business end of a blacksmith's hammer.
I miss your hat, Kim thought. 
They found Forgotten several sleep cycles later.  The Jahul had to chase him down, deftly avoiding missiles and other deadly projectiles in order to disable his engines and pull up beside him.  The Jahul, then too terrified at what they'd done to remain under Sky's spell, booted them off their ship and into Forgotten's docking bay. 
Then they left.
"I don't like this," Kim whispered, staring down the dark, silent corridor.  "Where is everybody?"  The place had a musty smell, the air damp and thick on her lungs.
"He's alone."  Sky's brow was knotted in a scowl of concentration.  "He's not happy."
Around them, the hum of life began again as Forgotten brought his engines back into commission.  Kim shivered and moved closer to Sky.
"This way," Sky said, stepping down the corridor.  "He's waiting for us."
Kim bit her lip and followed, staying as close as she could to Sky without falling into him.  As Sky led them deeper through the cold, wet passages, however, Kim lost all pretensions and clasped his hand in hers.  Sky squeezed her fingers reassuringly, but said nothing.
They stopped at the end of a long hall.  The moldy smell was stronger, here.  The door ahead of them seemed to be covered with a wet, black slime.  She could imagine the thing that lived on the other side.  Huge, dark, with hundreds of spidery legs and big fangs protruding from under its eight eyes.  Kim hung back.
"Sky, I don't want to go in there."
You have to.  He won't hurt you.  Not yet, anyway.  He's curious.
"Yeah, but I'm not curious.  Can't you do it alone?"
For the first time, Sky gave her an impression of insecurity.  He was nervous.  Why would he want to face the monster, when she didn't?  It reminded her that as irritating as he was, as much as he sometimes seemed arrogant and prideful, Sky was just as human as she was.
Kim felt like an ass.  Gripping Sky's sweaty palm, she followed him inside.
#
Kim had to blink when she stepped inside the cavern.  The walls were covered with a wet, glistening black mold.  She hesitated, peering into all the corners just to make sure.  She was relieved, but irritated, too.  All that bracing herself for nothing.
"I see his shit but where is he?"
The booming voice that shook the cave came from the ship itself.  "You're standing on me, Human."
Kim peered down at the black, spongy substance under her feet and jerked away, uncomprehending.
This is him, Sky whispered in her mind.  His brow was contorted, his eyes half-closed.  Everything you see.  God it hurts.
Kim grabbed his hand and touched his brow.  "Sky?"
"Your friend is a telepath."  It was not a question.
Kim glanced around her, goosebumps rushing over her damp skin in a wave.
"Congress sent a force to Earth six weeks past.  You escaped."
Beside her, Sky nodded and leaned on her.  Speak for me, Kim.  I can barely stand up.
"Yes," Kim said, giving her friend another worried glance.
"Your friend forced Rri'jan to help him.  The Huouyt was the only one on that ship that had the knowledge to get you away from Kerjia.  Your friend, however, could not make Rri'jan help you find me—his hate is too strong.  The assassin has something else planned for me.  That means Rri'jan either escaped or you killed him.  My guess is that a telepath would be too empathetic to harm anyone, so you let him live."
"He escaped," Kim whispered.  Her skin was crawling with goosebumps.  What was this thing?
"That was a mistake."
Kim glanced at Sky, whose eyes were scrunched shut, sweat beading on his brow.  His delicate hands were fisted on her arm.
"You are both descendants of Joe Dobbs."
"Yes," Kim whispered.  She felt exposed, like the first time Sky had spoken in her head.  "How did you know?"
"You look like him."
Kim stared.  It was eight hundred and nineteen years since Dobbs rescued the first People.
"He salvaged a group of experiments on Earth.  That's where your friend came from."
"Yes."
"And your friend thinks I can help you plan a war against Congress."
"No," Kim said.
The voice paused.  Then, curious, "No?"
Sky cleared his throat.  "Since you already know what I am, could you please...still...your thoughts?  It...hurts...to be so close to you."
The ship said nothing, but Sky's brow eased minutely.
"So tell me why you come to me, if not to ask me to help you fulfill the Trith's prophecy?"
Kim frowned.  "What's a Trith?"
"We don't want a war," Sky said.  His voice sounded more strained than usual, but at least his eyes were open.  "We want to avoid a war."
"Congress will give you nothing else, once it discovers its mistake."
"I have something to show you," Sky said, "If you'll trust me."
"I trust no one, especially not strangers who force themselves onto my ship."
Sky reached into his vest and tugged out his bundle of lifestones.
"Careful, human.  After Dobbs, I installed a hundred and seven new ways to kill intruders."
Sky pulled a gleaming blue amethyst from the pouch.  "On Earth, my kind's abilities are not limited to the living.  We can impress thoughts and emotions onto an inanimate object."
The ship paused only a moment before saying, "Then you could make me believe I wanted to help you."
"No," Sky said, groaning.  His face contorted again.  "Please.  I can't stand it."
"I could probably kill you without triggering a single weapon, couldn't I?  I could kill you just by thinking."
"You could make me lose my mind, at least," Sky agreed.  "But please, trust me.  I have a bargain that benefits both of us."
The ship paused.  Finally, it said, "Give me the stone."
Sky dropped the amethyst onto the nearest spongy black surface.
Immediately, the ship said, "I see.  Your whole planet is filled with them.  Not just telepaths.  Telekinetics.  Matter-shifters.  An entire batch survived.  Why do you need me, human?  You are like the Trith.  With even a small amount of maneuvering, you easily have enough power to stop whatever Congress sends at you."  Kim sensed a vein of bitterness in Forgotten's voice.
"We don't want a war," Sky said again.  "We don't want anyone to die."
"Then what do you want?"
"We want to propose a deal.  A bargain."
"You have nothing I want, human."
"Not yet.  But we can build something you want."
"I can buy anything you can build."
"Not this," Sky insisted.
"There's nothing you could make that I haven't already considered, but please, lay out your proposal.  I might be amused."
Her friend remained unfazed by the ship's taunting. 
"You get Earth out of Congress without a single death," Sky said, his voice utterly steady, "And we will build you a planet of your own."
The ship went silent.  "Build me a planet."
"Yes.  To whatever specifications you desire."
The cavern echoed in silence.
"Without a single death.  Define that."
"No one dies," Sky said simply.  "On either side."
The ship paused so long that Kim wondered if it had heard. 
Finally, it said, "Give me a week."
#
It actually took less than a week.  Halfway through the sixth day, Forgotten spoke again.
Kim, who had been driven to tears with boredom and the damp, sticky air, sat up excitedly as Forgotten addressed them.
"I have a plan.  It only has one variable of which I am unsure.  Sky, if you needed to, could you expand yourself to every corner of the universe and guide several trillion minds at once, if it is for the same purpose?"
"Yes," Sky said.  Kim blinked at him, impressed.
"You would not require assistance?  You wouldn't need other Minders to help you?  You could do it by yourself?"
"Yes," Sky said.  "I'm...different...than the other Minders."
Forgotten digested this a moment before saying, "Very well.  You are to go to Koliinaat.  Meet with Fred Mullich.  I will give you more instructions once you are there."
"Forgotten?" Kim asked, "Can we eat first?  Sky and I could really go for some more lasagna."
"You've gone six days doing nothing but eating my food.  You've already created an imbalance in my supplies.  You can wait."
And they did.  To Kim's frustration, Forgotten made them starve until they left his ship.
Two days later, they were sitting in the private chambers of an Ooreiki ship captain.  Kim was full, but bored again, picking at her fingernails and scowling at the Ooreiki as he slept peacefully on his big, cushioned bed while she slept in a chair with Sky.  The Ooreiki, for his part, spent the entire duration of the journey believing he was alone.
Once they docked at Koliinaat, the Ooreiki captain abandoned his chamber and Sky went into a trance to speak to Forgotten.  Kim used the moment to peer out the window, staring at the artificial planet in awe.  It looked like Earth.  Blue oceans, clouds, and mountain ranges spattered the landscape, though there was much more land than water.  Tiny ships in all shapes and sizes circled with them, awaiting acceptance in the huge, tubular labyrinth that criss-crossed the surface of the planet.  Through the enormous glass domes, Kim could see that under the mountains and oceans, Koliinaat was an artificial construction.  Lights and beacons from ships and landing pads blinked inside the tubes, and huge metal crevasses led into the depths of the planet itself.
When Sky finally opened his eyes again, he was shaking.
"What?" Kim demanded.
There's something on this planet that Forgotten's people made for Congress, before they bound them.  It frightens me.  If we do not do things exactly right, it will kill both of us in an instant.
"What is it?" Kim asked.  After seeing spaceships and eating giant insect legs, Kim didn't think much else could surprise her.
It's a consciousness.  A being that is completely artificial.
That made her pause.  "You mean it's not real?"
It is not real, but I can speak with it.  Sky shuddered again.  You have no idea how frightening this is, Kim.
"So what do you want to do?"
There's a mechanism Forgotten's people built into it, in case Congress ever turned against them.  They never had a chance to use it.
Kim perked up.  "So what's the problem?"
Sky's face was strained.  The mechanism is impossible for you or I to trigger.  Only Forgotten's people can do it.
"Why?"
We're not intelligent enough.
"Oh.  So what are you doing?"
I'm going to give Forgotten my body.
Kim stared.  "What?"
He'll take us into Koliinaat.  There's no other way.
"Now wait a minute, Sky.  You're giving a fungus control over your body?  What if he doesn't want to give it back?"
He trusted me.  Now I've got to trust him.
His tone of voice left no question that he was about to perform said switch.
"Sky!" Kim snapped, grabbing him.  "Don't you dare give him your body.  I refuse to let you give your life to a mold.  Get me?!"
Sky blinked at her, his eyes wide.  Kim released him suddenly.  The power, the presence she had always felt in his eyes were gone, replaced by intense intelligence that focused on her like seeing some new kind of animal for the first time.  Oh my god he did it.  "Sky?" she whispered.
No answer.
Sky stared down at his hands and wiggled the fingers, then held one up and stared at it.  He took one deep breath, then two, then refocused his eyes on Kim.  Hesitantly, he reached for her.  Kim stumbled backwards quickly, glaring at him.
Sky took a step forward and stumbled.  He righted himself quickly, though it was as much his arms on the desk holding him up as his own two legs.  He lifted his eyes back to Kim and opened his mouth, but nothing came out. 
"Say something," she whispered.
Sky's eyes were wide with awe.  "It's...wond...er...ful."  The syllables sounded too loud, scratchy.  Like he'd never spoken before but was learning fast.
"What?"
"Moving."  He reached down and brushed his fingers across the tabletop, then peered at the tips of his fingers again.  "Feeling things."  As he talked, Kim could hear him gaining a grasp on Sky's vocal chords and it made her sick.  "Being able to change one's position in the universe using one's own natural locomotion."
"Where is Sky?" Kim demanded.
The mushroom looked at her again.  "He's in my body, I would suppose."
"You turned him into a mold?"  She felt herself breathing hard, unable to control her panic.  "Is he okay?"
"He hasn't informed me of his current state of health.  Why, do you think this is dangerous?"
Kim glared at him.  It's dangerous for Sky.  You might decide you like your new legs, you bastard.
Forgotten snorted.  "You may stop worrying.  I'm not taking this body from him.  It's ridiculously frail, and its metabolism quits after a short period."  Still, the alien continued to look fascinated with touching things in the room, pinching his skin, bending his joints.  Kim watched nervously, fretting about Sky.
"I'm ready," Forgotten said suddenly.  "Let's go."  He turned and, without Kim seeing anything out of the ordinary on the wall in front of him, slapped the wall like an Ooreiki and it dripped open.  He strode through it without a second glance.
Kim peeked her head outside, looking for Ooreiki.  Without Sky to disguise them, they'd stand out like the intruders they were.  When Forgotten did not stop, however, she jogged to catch up with him.
"What are you doing?" she demanded.
He was moving swiftly, now, in utter command of his new body.  He gave Kim an irritated look.  "I'm getting you and your friend past the Watcher."
"Yes, but they might see you."
"There are three thousand sixty-nine species in Congress," Forgotten said.  "The chances that any bystanders we meet have met them all is minimal.  The further chances that they know or care about the plight of a single, weakling planet called Earth is almost a statistical impossibility."
He strode out into the main hall like he owned it.  Kim followed, though she couldn't help glancing nervously around her as the dozens of different types of aliens milled by.  Some cast the two of them a curious glance, but, like Forgotten had said, none of them tried to stop them.
Forgotten led them to the edge of a ramp and began descending a set of metal stairs.  Kim peered over the edge, then wished she hadn't.  Hundreds of stories down, the ground wavered dizzily, like it was a town in miniature.  Little floating platforms bussed aliens back and forth, most of whom were wearing official black and carrying nasty-looking weapons.
Sky's hand touched her arm, dragging her attention back to the platform.  "Come," Forgotten said.  "We must find a safe spot before the Watcher analyzes us."
He dragged her to the doorway of what looked almost like a sort of bathroom, then began fiddling with a small, glowing screen set into the side of the jamb.  On the door itself, dark, blocky squiggles morphed and changed before her eyes.  Then Forgotten entered and began shouting in a foreign language.
Aliens in various sizes and styles of dress began emerging from the stalls in a hurry.  Kim stared at the flood, wondering what they had been doing before Forgotten interrupted them.
In moments, only she and Forgotten occupied the room.
Forgotten pushed the door shut.  It closed with a hum and a click.
"Now," Forgotten said, "We wait."
Kim glanced around the beige, antiseptic-smelling room.  "Wait for what?"  She gave the door an uneasy glance, but Forgotten did not bother answering her.
Suddenly, from everywhere at once, a voice said, "You have been identified as unauthorized personnel."  The door beside Kim made a louder, much more authoritative click.  "You are to be detained until an immigration authority officer can review your case."  Kim got goosebumps all over her body.  She could feel the presence leaving.
Beside her, Forgotten said loudly, "We are doomed to be forgotten before we are found."
The presence in the room hesitated.  "Blue."
Instantly, Forgotten said, "Orange."
Before Forgotten had even finished the word, the Watcher fired back, "Fire, Life, War."
Forgotten was in the middle of saying, "Water, Death, Peace," when the Watcher spat out a string of alien words that sounded like a blur to Kim.  Forgotten responded in kind.  The questions came so fast—and the answers even faster—that it left Kim's head numb.  Then the Watcher and Forgotten began to talk at the same time, questioning and answering, Forgotten somehow managing to give the correct responses without getting confused and forgetting the order.  Then the Watcher split his voice into three, each starting a fragment of a second after the next so that they were all speaking in separate alien languages at the same time.  Forgotten responded in kind, his gaze focused on the wall in front of him as he repeated words in alien languages Kim had never imagined existed.  Then the Watcher became a dozen voices, all speaking at once.  Then a hundred.  Then a thousand.
Sky was right, she thought, her brain twisting in on itself, We're not smart enough.  Not for this.
Finally, when it was over, the Watcher's original voice returned and said, "How is it possible?"
Forgotten glanced at Kim and answered in another language.  Her hackles lifted as she realized he was keeping her out of the conversation.  She glared at him when the Watcher replied in kind.
"What are you telling him?" Kim demanded, after the planet and the fungus had bantered back and forth for several long minutes.
Forgotten turned to glare at her.  The presence in the room shifted as well, and suddenly Kim felt very vulnerable.
"He's telling me you and your friend shall have whatever access you require, whenever you require it."  She could feel the Watcher's gaze settling over her.  "Do you have a problem with his instructions?"
Asshole, she thought.  "No.  I just wanted to know why you were leaving me out of the conversation."
"Let us talk again, Jemria.  When you are not entertaining guests."  At that, the presence faded from the room completely.
Forgotten turned to scowl at Kim.  "That was my first stimulating conversation in eight hundred turns and you had to cut it short."
"Stop whining and give me Sky back."
Still glaring at her, Forgotten moved to the door and unlocked it.  He made a sarcastic flourish.  "After you."
"You're a jerk," she muttered.
"And you're an imbecile."
Kim opened her mouth to retort, but after seeing the display inside the bathroom, where Forgotten had recited a thousand different phrases, in order, to match a thousand questions begun at such incremental fractions of a second apart they could have been at the same time, she realized it was true.  She looked away and bit her lip.  Tears formed in her eyes.
Forgotten brushed past her.  "Come.  I have something else I must do before I allow your friend his body back."
Kim stiffened.  "Does Sky know about it?"
"Your friend doesn't know a lot of things."  Then he gave her no choice but to follow or be left behind on the congested, multi-layered alien highway.
This time Forgotten stopped, he ducked into a hazy glass room filled with multitudes of different types of aliens sitting at tables, eating and drinking.  The noise was intense, a clamor of different pitches and decibels that left Kim's ears ringing before she even stepped inside.   As soon as Forgotten entered, several of the aliens looked up and stared.
We're the freaks here, Kim realized.
She stood in the door, unable to push herself into the room of strange, staring creatures.  Realizing she hadn't followed, Forgotten shook his head in irritation and came back to grab her.  He dragged her deeper into the place, between rows of aliens that watched them with what was probably curiosity, but hidden by the rough, terrifying faces of monsters.
"Stay here," Forgotten ordered.
"Are we going to eat something?" Kim whispered.  All around them, the other aliens were sitting in front of various plates and bowls of steaming food.  The smell was enough to make her sick.  "I could sure go for some lasagna."
Forgotten made a disgusted sound and left her in a corner of the room.  Three feet away, a group of reptilian aliens watched her alertly.  Their eyes were narrow slits, but the rest of their faces were almost human.  Until they smiled.  Then she saw rows of chipped and broken canine teeth.  One of them tried to talk to her.
Kim shuddered and edged away from the room.  OhpleaseSkycomeback.  Please.  Please.  Please.
A warm hand touched her wrist.
Kim turned around in relief.  "Sky, I really—"
The creature that stood before her didn't come up to her chest.  Its head was huge and shaped like an upside-down tear on a tiny neck, seemingly too much for its skinny limbs to hold up.  Its skin was a pale gray, the four fingers touching her wrist too long and slender, like bones.
Kim glanced up in a panic.  Where was Forgotten?  Then she realized that, all throughout the room, a silence had descended upon the place.  The reptilian aliens were staring at her visitor, immobile.  She glanced back down at the tiny gray alien.
The creature's huge black eyes caught her and held her like pits of tar.  She felt herself being pulled deeper, feeling the same weightlessness as if she were in her second consciousness.  An overpowering emptiness surrounded her, a knowing that she was but a tiny part of an enormous web, one stretching across a billion stars.  She felt smaller and smaller, her ego absorbed into an impossibly huge whole.
She felt a presence guiding her through the void that was utterly foreign, nothing like Sky's.  Its alien feel gave her goosebumps, made her nervous.  Kim, you will—
"Get out of my head!"  Kim yanked herself back into her body and shoved the creature away from her.  "Use your mouth, you little prick!"
The alien's enormous head, it turned out, was too much for its body to handle.  It fell onto its back, its dangerous black eyes staring at the ceiling.  Absolute silence held the room around her.  Not a single alien moved, all of them alternately staring at the creature on the ground and her.
"Forgotten!" Kim cried.  "I want to go now!"
Forgotten was nowhere to be seen.  Gingerly, Kim glanced back down at the creature she had shoved.  The dizzy emptiness in its eyes somehow found a way to portray annoyance.  She glared back.  Stay out of my head, bastard.  You want me to get out of your corner, just say so and I'll move.
Slowly, the creature picked itself of the ground.  It was both pathetic and comical to watch as it tried to lever its enormous head from the floor.  Kim began to feel a little bad.  Just then, Forgotten pushed through a door in the back and his eyes caught her.  He stopped, as utterly motionless as the rest of the room.
"I want to go!" she shouted at Forgotten.  "This bastard tried to assault me."
Regaining his composure, Forgotten slowly pushed himself past the tables of gawking aliens to stand a few feet away from the alien.  He stared down at it, then at her, saying nothing.
"Well?" Kim demanded.  She stared down at the little gray alien, careful to avoid staring into its eyes.  "What are we waiting for?  Tell him I'm sorry I shoved him and let's go."
Forgotten stared at her.  "You shoved him?"
"He tried to mess with my head.  Just like that asshole Sky.  Now will you please bring Sky back and get me out of here?  Why are they all staring at us?  What did I do?"
"Do you know what that is, Kim?"
The black-eyed alien glanced at Forgotten and Forgotten quickly looked away.  "His powers are in his eyes.  Don't look into them and he can't do anything."
"I already figured that out, thank you," Kim snapped.  She frowned down at the creature.  "Why isn't he leaving?  He want me to say I'm sorry or something?"
Forgotten hesitated a moment.  "You shoved him?  Did he say anything to you before you shoved him?"
"No.  He tried to, but I put myself back into my own head and told him to screw off."
"You pulled yourself back into your own head?"  Forgotten glanced down at the creature.  "Interesting."
"I think it's time I made an introduction," the creature said in a soft, near-whisper.  He gazed up at Kim, but she pointedly avoided his eyes.  "I am Sjilak.  I am a Trith."







CHAPTER 11: The Trith
The creature ended his statement with all the pride of a magician pulling something from a magic hat.  Kim frowned at him.  "So?"
The Trith balked.  "So I'm a Trith."
Forgotten narrowed his eyes momentarily.  "You can't read her."
The Trith gave Forgotten an irritated look.  "Nor you, either, if it makes you feel better, Geuji."
"Actually, no.  That doesn't make me feel better at all."  Forgotten glanced around the room.  "Come.  We need a place to speak freely."  He said something in an alien language and Kim felt the Watcher's presence return.  In an instant, all three of them were standing in an empty room.
With no doors.
"So we're at a crossroads."
Kim glanced at Forgotten, who was watching the Trith with Sky's mesmerizing blue gaze.  Under his stare, the Trith inclined its head slightly.
"How?"
Sjilak glanced at Kim.  "Your friend made a decision that has changed the entire course of the future, shattered it into a billion different paths."
"And you want to put it back on course," Forgotten said.  His voice had hardened.  "It must me driving you all mad."
"Do not judge us, Geuji.  We do not make the future."
"But you nudge it in the right direction whenever you see fit."
"Do you know why you were the only one of your kind to avoid Congress when you were born, Jemria?"
"I know."  Forgotten scowled at the Trith.  "You needed someone to fulfill the future for you, so you didn't get a headache back on you perfect little planet."
"The future is shattered, now.  Each day you help them, you break it into smaller and smaller pieces."
"I do what I please, Trith."  He made the word sound like a curse.
Kim watched the two aliens, biting her lip.  She wasn't quite understanding what was going on, but she didn't like it.
"I'm not asking you to stop," Sjilak said.  "But I am asking to let me help you."
Forgotten snorted.  "A Trith who can't see the future?  What good is that?"
See the future?  Kim glanced at the little creature, remembering the way his eyes had dragged her into the void.  Then why didn't he stop me from shoving him?  Already, a nasty bruise was forming on the back of the thing's head, where it had hit the ground.
"I get flashes now and then," Sjilak said.
Forgotten tilted back Sky's head and roared with laughter.  "Oh, how I have wanted to see this day.  What would Congress do if it knew Trith was helpless?"
"My planet is not responsible for your people's plight," Sjilak snapped.
Forgotten slammed a finger into Sjilak's tiny, bony chest, almost knocking him over again.  "You didn't stop it, either."
Sjilak pushed Forgotten's finger away from his chest.  It was an effort, requiring his entire wiry arm.  The unyielding black of his eyes were filled with irritation.  "That is for you to do, Jemria."
"Wait," Kim said.  "What's going on?  Who are you?  Why do you want to help us?"
"He wants to make his headaches stop," Forgotten snorted.  "Just like Sky when you stood in my chamber."
"So you can see the future?" Kim asked, growing excited.
"No," Forgotten said.  "That's why he's here.  The dishonorable vaghi thinks he can twist us to his own ends."  Forgotten began taking off his shirt—Sky's shirt.  Kim jumped when she heard tearing.
"What are you doing?" the Trith asked, eying him suspiciously.
"You tell me," Forgotten said.  The tearing continued, strip after strip of cloth.
When Sjilak said nothing, Forgotten dropped the remainder of the shirt and began twisting strips of cloth between his fingers.  "You give up?  Then perhaps you should consider what Congress would do to get their hands on one of you.  Alive."
Sjilak's eyes remained as wide as they would ever be, but his surprise seeped out of him like a cold draft.  Surprise and fear.
"Welcome to my world," Forgotten said.  He roughly shoved the Trith to the ground and began binding his tiny limbs to his sides.
Watching Sjilak's futile struggles, Kim had to take pity on him.  "Stop it, Forgotten."
Forgotten ignored her, cinching the bonds much too tight, enjoying the Trith's tiny whimpers.
"Stop it, you bastard!"  Kim grabbed his—Sky's—arm.
Forgotten shoved her away from him and continued, setting a foot painfully in the Trith's back, mashing his delicate hands into his spine.  It wasn't even a contest.  Kim felt herself drifting into her second consciousness out of the sheer injustice of it.
She'd never liked the fungus, anyway.
"I said leave him alone!"  She scooped a fistful of metal out of the floor and slammed it into the side of his head.
Forgotten blinked twice, then fell over, staring at the ceiling.
Kim grunted and threw the wad of metal away.  It clanged against the wall and settled in a corner, her handprint still formed into it.
On the floor, the Trith was staring at it, then stared at her.
"Here," Kim said, reaching down and ripping the shirt strips apart.  It was wretchedly easy—it made her feel guilty that she hadn't stopped Forgotten earlier.  She offered her hand to Sjilak as he rolled onto its back and sat up, but he did not take it.  Looking down, Kim realized she had little horseshoes of metal stuck to the undersides of her fingernails.
"Damn."  She began picking them loose.
"And that," the Trith whispered, "Is why I can't read you.  Your friend changed everything.  You were never supposed to learn anything beyond journeyman.  You were never supposed to leave Earth."
Kim lowered her hand and frowned at him.  "Who else can't you read?"
"Your friend Sky, mainly.  And Jemria, but it has always been hard to read him.  Whether he likes it or not, he is one of the vortexes in the plane of time.  Despite what he believes, his future is only his, and nothing I could have done would have changed his lot."
At that, Forgotten sat up.
Kim put herself between the fungus and the Trith.  "You mess with him again and your next lesson in being human will be what it's like to get your testicles crushed."
Gingerly, Forgotten reached up to touch the swelling spreading across his forehead.  Kim's breath caught when she realized the enormous presence behind the crystal blue eyes had expanded back into the room like a sonic boom.
Sky was back.
And she had just tried to kill him.  Again.
You didn't try to kill me.  You merely hit me in the head with a—  Sky's voice cut off suddenly and he leaned to the side, peeking around her at the alien on the floor.
Instantly, the tension in the room made it a struggle to breathe.
The two merely stared at one another, gazes locked, bodies unmoving.
What, Sky growled in her head, Is that?
"It's a Trith," Kim said.
I can't read him.  Nothing.  At.  All.
Well he can't read you, either.
Kill it.
Kim blinked.  "What?"
Kill it.
Kim glanced at the Trith, then back at Sky.  Her brow furrowed.  "No."
Kill it or I will.
"You try and you'll get worse than Forgotten."
He was right.  That thing must die.
Kim stared, completely baffled by Sky's reaction.  "I thought you were a good Minder."
That thing has no soul, Kim.
She turned and frowned down at the creature.  "Really?  Neither does a pencil."
"What's he saying?" Sjilak asked in his soft whisper.
"He's saying you don't have a soul."
The Trith flinched and broke his gaze with Sky to stare up at Kim.  "He can't read me?"
"So you do have a soul?"
"Of course."  Sjilak turned his huge head back to stare at Sky.  "Ask him what he sees when he looks at me."
Emptiness, Sky replied.  Deep, evil emptiness.  Nothing at all.  So much nothing it creates something.  Something evil.
Kim translated, sans the evil part.
"That's the future," the Trith said.  "That's what I'm seeing now that he decided to find Jemria.  That's what's giving me a headache.  Tell him to try reading me without looking into my eyes."
Sky refused.
The Trith awkwardly turned himself around on the floor, until Sky was looking at the back of his head.
Immediately, Sky's brow smoothed slightly.  Guilt oozed out of his consciousness and he blushed.
"And you were gonna have me kill him!" Kim cried.  "You should be ashamed of yourself."
"He is," Sjilak said on the floor.  Groaning, he began the laborious chore of pushing himself back to his feet.  Kim knelt to help him, grasping one delicate hand in hers and allowing him to use it as leverage.  Once he had righted himself, she stood back, biting her lip as she looked over his tiny body.  Forgotten's rough handling had created masses of bruises across his skin, leaving him looking like one of the mottled-skinned, sewer-smelling Jahul that had dropped them off on Forgotten's ship.
As soon as he was on his feet, Sjilak glanced between them and said, "So when do we begin?"
Sky cocked his head.  We?
"He's helping us," Kim said.
Sky stiffened.  I don't want his help.
Oh come on, you were wrong.  Just be a man and admit it.
Kim, he doesn't want to help us.  He wants to put things back together, one way or the other.  He's desperate.  He'll turn on us if he thinks it will solidify the future.
Kim glanced at the bruised little creature.  Aw, Sky, have a heart.
You don't understand.  They use people.  We have records of it with Joe Dobbs.
Kim turned to face Sky directly.  They use people?  She did her best to imitate a mental gasp.
Yes, he said, sounding relieved.  All the time.
She folded her arms over her chest.  Then you two should get along fine.







CHAPTER 12: Moving the Pieces
"How soon, Syuri?"
"Cool your brain matter, Forgotten.  Two days, at the very least.  I can't give you a ship that does not run, can I?  It would be poor taste, very poor.  Do I look like a Huouyt to you?  My reputation would be ruined."
"You have two hours.  Be sure your diagnostics are completed by then."
Syuri grumbled under his breath.  "What has you in such a hurry, Forgotten?  Usually you're the one telling me to slow down."
"I met some interesting creatures recently.  I need you to meet them."
Syuri stiffened immediately.  "No.  I am a smuggler, not a magician, Forgotten.  I can't avoid Rri'jan if he figures out I exist."
"He won't.  I promise it.  You'll meet with these creatures on their home planet.  Earth."
"Isn't that the planet that just got released from its Sacred Turn?"  Syuri sniffed and went back to recalibrating the stolen ship.  "That's a long way for a meeting.  What do they have for me?"
"I can't tell you, but I can assure you it will be very profitable for everyone involved."
Syuri's body-pressure increased threefold.  Every time Forgotten mentioned the word 'profitable,' credits and goods beyond Syuri's wildest dreams tumbled into his arms like the Jreet gods themselves were showering them with favor.
"I'll consider it," Syuri said.
"You won't be disappointed," Forgotten told him.
"Don't push me, Forgotten.  My schedule's packed tight as it is."
"You mean the Peacemakers just confiscated your last load of kariwq bulbs and you have no other major heists planned for three months."
Syuri grimaced, irritated that he couldn't even fudge the truth around the Geuji.  "What species was Earth, again?"
"Humans," Forgotten said.
Syuri frowned.  Humans again?  "What could they possibly have to sell?  We destroyed their civilization.  They have no technology, no culture."
"Six hundred and sixty-six turns without their usual crutches has forced them to improvise," Forgotten said.  "And rest assured, the item I have in mind can be very addictive."
Syuri's inner pressure increased again.  'Addictive' was a key word for any smuggler.  It meant vices—expensive vices. 
"I said I'd consider it."
"Good.  Be at Koliinaat in two weeks."
Syuri dropped his scanner.  "Koliinaat?!  Are you out of your mind, Forgotten?  I thought you said I was going to Earth."
"Koliinaat first, then Earth."
"That's a death sentence for me, Jemria."  Just the thought of being within a few skymarches of the psychopath was enough to make his wastes chambers constrict on a rush of fear.
"You'll be able to handle him," Forgotten soothed.  "Trust me, old friend."
"I always have," Syuri said reluctantly, "but last time—"
"Then keep trusting me," Forgotten interrupted.  "I have very few friends, Jahul, and I wouldn't sacrifice you for any plan—a swear it on my honor."  And with the Geuji's words came a rush of gratitude and...love?
Neither of which blotted out the fact that Koliinaat was a death-trap and Syuri liked to keep his skin intact.  "Rri'jan lives there, Forgotten.  What happened to keeping me out of his sight?"
"Let me take care of Rri'jan."
#
"My lord."  A shadow moved from the wall near his bed.
Kragkhen sat up at the Huouyt's voice, his every sense alert.  "Rri'jan.  How did you get in here?"  He tensed, his scales tightening as he glanced at the door.  His Jreet Sentinels were outside in the hall, as far from him as physically possible while still serving their purpose.
"It is my talent to get into places where I don't belong, my lord."
Kragkhen peered at the Huouyt.  The assassin was wearing a green crystal around his neck, wrapped in a golden sigil he didn't recognize, one that almost looked like a kreenit fist.  Knowing that a Huouyt never did anything without reason, he wondered if the pendant was some sort of symbol, some new way to laugh at him.  What does he mean by wearing that?  Is the fool going to try to kill me?  Is he signaling he changed sides, and he thinks I'm too stupid to notice?  He flexed his claws and stood.  It would only take one bat of his arm to destroy the Huouyt past all rejuvenation.
"Where were you?"
"With the two Humans, my lord."
Kragkhen relaxed a little.  At least he wasn't going to lie.  "And?  Why did you help them?"
Rri'jan gave him a smug look and sat down in his secretary's chair.  "I always enjoy putting someone's mind into contortions.  It's one of the few pleasures life allows me, after being divested of my Regency seat and my family funds."
"So you were getting back at Kerjia?  That's why you led those two off the ship?"  The Huouyt, once again, had allowed his former status as a Representative affect his thinking.  "Why did you not ask me?!"
"I thought you would appreciate his humiliation, sire."
Kragkhen growled.  "Do you realize how much trouble you've caused me?  The Ooreiki coward guessed who you are."
"And what did you tell him?"
"I told him he was a brainless Takki."
"Ah."  Rri'jan plucked at the table with a tentacle, studying it.  The gesture reminded him of the Huouyt's time with Mekkval and it gave him a bad taste in his mouth.  Rri'jan was the only servant Kragkhen had allowed to stay on after his predecessor's death, as his abilities were well worth the trouble and expense, despite the inconvenience of keeping him off Congressional radar.
"What of the Humans?" Kragkhen demanded.  "Were they mutants?"
"No.  It was as you suspected.  She was an imbecile, and he was playing along with her fantasies."
Kragkhen relaxed, though he was disappointed.  He had been looking forward to the raid on Earth.  This time, Congress would have annihilated the entire continent and everything on it.  More, if they had discovered intercontinental trade.  Kragkhen might have been able to claim a few as his own, since they would be written off as casualties anyway.  Humans, as rare as they were, had always fascinated him.  He had imagined their hands to be so soft, as opposed to the scaly, rough touch of the Takki.  He still hadn't found a Dhasha breeding them willing to sell him any slaves, thinking he had some part in Mekkval's death on Earth, and it was infuriating to him that he couldn't convince the other princes otherwise.  He wanted some Humans.  At least a breeding trio.  He'd hoped to acquire three from the trip to Earth, but Kerjia had stalwartly refused to let him take even one, overriding his commands to the Congie pilot to take them to a population center.
Then again, the thought of living with a mutant secretly embedded within the ranks of his servants gave him a cold chill.  Maybe it wasn't such a good idea to take Humans from Earth.  He could access the Watcher archives, instead.  The Watcher stored the genetic code of every single Congressional soldier to enter the ranks of the Army.  Kragkhen could probably hire an Ueshi scientist to reproduce him a batch of humans easier than it would be to test a group of native adults for any trace of genetic taint.
"You're sure?" Kragkhen demanded.  "How did they escape?"
"I helped them escape, sire."
"Then why can't Kerjia find them?  He's set several groundteams out to hunt them down."
"He can't find them because they're looking for Forgotten.  They want his help."
Kragkhen twitched.  "The Geuji?  He's still alive?"
"Based on the evidence they presented, I believe so, sire."
Kragkhen stiffened.  "They have nothing to pay him."
"They're very naïve, my lord."
The last thing he wanted was Forgotten getting involved.  Mekkval might be lenient, but Kragkhen was a quick study.  Forgotten was dangerous, whether he helped the Humans or not.  "Find him.  Kill him.  Take whatever resources you need to locate and destroy him."
"Ah."  Rri'jan plucked at the table again.  "Are you sure?"
The audacity.  Kragkhen bristled, but knew it would do him no good to show his irritation.  Rri'jan had been working for him for far too long not to read even his most subtle cues, and he still hadn't lost his bearing of a Representative, despite a Sacred Turn to bring him down a peg.  To show irritation to this creature was a mistake.  It did nothing but expose a weakness.
Evenly, Kragkhen said, "Yes.  Kill him."
"As you wish, sire.  Usually I find your assignments tedious, but his death will be a genuine pleasure."  Languidly, Rri'jan stood and made an elaborate bow.
Kragkhen gouged deep furrows into the floor as the Huouyt departed.  He needs to die.  Mekkval might have found uses for him after he lost his seat, but Mekkval was a fool.  That one's dangerous.
Then, another part of him thought, Of course he's dangerous.  That's why you hired him, rather than let him disappear after Mekkval's death.
Still, Kragkhen couldn't help but feel his life was constantly hanging in the balance around the Huouyt, and a mere shift in loyalties would mean his instant death.
Thankfully, though, Kragkhen held the purse strings, and Rri'jan couldn't access them without his command.  For now, the situation was tolerable.  For both of them.







CHAPTER 13: Two Minders
Sky sat sulking in a corner, scowling at Sjilak.  He hadn't said a word, physical or otherwise, since the Watcher had transported them to a small, stuffy chamber littered with books and papers.  He also hadn't taken his eyes off the Trith.
"I think he hates me," Sjilak whispered to Kim.  Both of them had crossed the room and were investigating the books and personal effects in the room.  He shuddered visibly.  "For a while, I was getting images of him bashing my head open on the floor."
Kim gave the Trith a surprised look.  "You were?  Does that mean he was really going to do it?  He must've been really upset.  Telepaths don't kill people."
"Upset or frightened," Sjilak whispered.  "The future is a terrifying place, even if it's stable.  Now, the way it is, all we get are glimpses of cold, empty nothingness.  Like Sky said, it feels bad."
"Evil?" Kim asked.
"Yes."
Kim glanced back at Sky.  If the future was enough to scare the Minder Grand Master and a Trith, she should be pissing her pants.  Strangely, she felt nothing but an underlying irritation at being in the situation in the first place.
So when are you sending me home, Sky? she demanded.  You showed me to Forgotten.  That's what you wanted, right?
Sky ignored her, continuing to glower at the Trith by her side.
Kim sighed and picked up a heavy tome.  It felt old.  She read the cover. Holy Bible. Frowning, she opened it up.  She read the first few lines, then shut it again and put it down.
"What is it?" Sjilak asked.
"A fairy tale."  She walked to the desk and touched the screen.  An image of a little girl and a woman popped up, their busts rotating in three-dimensional space above the desk.  Kim poked the little girl and it dissipated.  Enthralled, she leaned closer, watching the woman's head spinning on a central axis.  It was almost like looking at her while in her second consciousness, except she couldn't see the woman's brain or the arteries in her neck.  Kim swatted the woman away and the image disappeared.
You shouldn't mess with his things, Sky said.
"Oh, so you finally decided to stop pouting?" Kim demanded, turning from the image to face Sky.
Sky shrugged and went back to glowering.
Kim opened a small black case situated on the corner of the desk.  Inside, she found hundreds of little white and black discs.  She picked one up and sniffed it.
The disc exploded in her face.
Kim cried out and stumbled backwards and fell, rubbing her eyes.
Told you, Sky said.
Shut up, damn it.  Kim gingerly traced her fingers over her face to assure herself she wasn't missing anything important.  Her skin felt tender, but otherwise undamaged.  The examination over, she drew her knees to her chest and wrapped her arms around them.  Sjilak had decided to follow her example.
Thus, the three of them were sitting on the floor, staring at the door, when a short, balding man in his forties stepped inside the room, looking preoccupied with something.  He had closed the door and taken three steps before he stopped in his tracks, mouth open.
In an archaic English, the man said, "Watcher, detain the three intruders in my room immediately."
"That won't be necessary, Representative Mullich."
"Won't be—"  The balding man's astonishment was clear.  "One of them's a Trith."
"I understand that, Representative.  Jemria requested immunity for anyone accompanying the two humans."
"Who the hell is Jemria?!"
"Jemria is also known as Forgotten, Representative.  He is a Geuji who—"
"Yes I know who he is.  What are they doing in my room?"
"That I cannot answer."
"You've been ordered to keep silent?"
"No, Representative.  I do not know."
"How did they get here?" Representative Mullich demanded.
"I put them there, at their request."
"You..."  This seemed to startle the balding man more than anything.  "Fine.  Leave us."
The air in the room grew lighter as the Watcher departed.
The balding man seemed to take a deep breath, then slowly put a smooth metal pad on the desk beside the black case.  "You're the two Humans who escaped Overseer Kerjia on the trip here, aren't you?"
When it was obvious Sky wasn't going to answer him, Kim said, "Sky had to get us off the ship so we could go find Forgotten."
The balding man's eyebrows soared.  "You found him?"
"Sky did."
Mullich frowned at the Trith.
"No," Kim said, touching Sky's shoulder.  "This is Sky.  That is Sjilak."
"You are on a first-name basis with a Trith."  Mullich stared at them a moment, then shook himself and, wiping dust away from the exploding disc, settled into the chair at the desk.  "What can I do for you?"
"There's something we need to tell you," Kim said.
Mullich laughed.  "You're not gonna surprise me any more than you already have.  I was told you hadn't rediscovered space travel.  How did you navigate Congress to find the Geuji?"
"Sky's a Minder," Kim said.  "He found him."
Mullich frowned.  "I'm not sure I understand.  Your speech has changed somewhat since the last time I was on Earth.  What is a Minder?"
"A telepath," Kim said.  "He saw the aliens coming for us back when we were on Earth and he took us out to meet them.  Made them land and pick us up with the others."
Mullich's face paled until he looked dead.  "Made them...  Please tell me the experiments were all killed."
At that, Sky jerked his head up to glare at Mullich.  Mullich stiffened, and Kim watched the telltale signs of a mental exchange, Mullich's knuckles whitening where they gripped his chair with every passing minute.
"They'll destroy us," Mullich whispered.  "They won't make the same mistake—they'll destroy Earth and repopulate it with the Watcher's gene database."
"They won't touch it," Sky said.  "The Guilds on Earth will destroy their armies before they even land."
"Destroy their..."  Mullich's eyes widened.  "It's the Fourfold Prophecy."
"Actually," the Trith said, "Thanks to Sky, there is no more Fourfold Prophecy."
Sky and the Trith exchanged a glare.  The Trith won.  Sky hunched his back and looked away.
"No more..."
"You are correct, though.  The Fourfold Prophecy concerned Humans.  We foresaw an enormous war, one in which Congress finally conceded.  Now we see nothing."
"What?"  The balding man frowned at the Trith.  "You're saying you don't know what's going to happen now?"  Then, glancing at Kim, "Are you serious?  Earth could really gain its freedom?"
"Not without many, many deaths," Sjilak said.  "Sky found that unacceptable.  He had to change things."  The way Sjilak said it, he sounded bitter.  "Now he wants Earth to gain its independence without a single death—something Forgotten is currently working on doing."
Kim heard Mullich's quick intake of breath.  "You got Forgotten to help you?  How did you pay him?"
"We're going to build him a planet," Kim said.
"Build him a..."  Mullich stared at her.  "Holy Mary.  You're serious, aren't you?"
"And we need your help," Kim said.
Mullich looked stunned.  "My help?  Why?  You have everything you need.  You have a Trith."
"A Trith who can't tell the future," Sky muttered.
Mullich glanced back at Sky.  "But you can?"
"Of course not," Sjilak said.  "He's a direct descendent of the original Minder.  Twelve-A."
Sky's hackles raised as the Trith spoke.  They began another staring contest, and this time Sky won.  The Trith turned to study the wall.
The friction between the two was so palpable even Mullich could sense it.  "How many experiments survived?  How many children bred true?"
"A lot," Sjilak said.  "They breed like animals.  Especially ones of Sky's nature.  They can't seem to help themselves."
Sky straightened and narrowed his eyes at the Trith.  "I haven't—"
No, Kim thought, Don't you dare say it.
"—bred with Kim."
"But you've tried," the Trith said.  "You didn't have what it took to convince her to accept your genetic material."
Kim thought her head was going to pop off her shoulders like a blood-filled zit.  She felt Representative Mullich's gaze as the Minder and the Trith argued.  They began insulting each others' ability to reproduce, specifically in the groinal area, before Kim managed to find her voice again.
"Both of you shut up."  Her voice was so soft with rage it was almost a whisper.
Both Sky and Sjilak stopped to look at her.
"We came to talk to Mullich, not talk about your testicles."
"He doesn't have any," Sky said.
"I thought we'd established that," Sjilak growled.  "I can see why you've screwed up the future.  You're too stupid to know what you want."
"And you're—"
"Tell Mullich our plan, Sky.  Before I break something.  Of yours."
Sky gave her a sulking look, but said, "Forgotten wants you to take the chairmanship of three different Congressional committees."
Mullich's heavy brows folded into a crease.  "There are no committee chairs available."
"There will be."
"Oh."
"First, we're going to need the Species Recognition Committee."
Mullich's excitement faded immediately.  "The Species Recognition Committee is a joke.  They only make a ruling once every hundred years or so and still they find reasons to meet daily.  Half the Representatives don't even show up to meetings because they'd rather watch the Finance Committee.  It's for Representatives who know their species will never gain enough planets to have a strong presence in Congress, so they settle for a small amount of power instead.  If I take that seat, I will be looked upon as a desperate man.  A fool.  I'll never get another seat.  Ever."
"You take the seat," Sky said.
Mullich collapsed in on himself and shook his head.  "You're from Earth.  You don't understand politics.  Just for my own amusement, what are the other two seats you want me to take?  Not that it will matter, because after destroying my reputation with the Species Recognition Committee, Earth will have to replace me before it can gain another committee seat, let alone a chairmanship."
"The next chairmanship is that of the Planetary Claims Committee."
Mullich threw his head back and laughed.  "Another useless committee!  Do you know how often they vote?  Twice a turn, if they're lucky.  It's a forum for species with hereditary feuds to come forth and make ridiculous claims on their enemies' property.  It's a place to exchange insults, not to get anything done."
"The third will be the Finance Committee."
Mullich's amusement faded.  "That will never happen.  Even if you change their votes for them, my telepathic friend, they would know something was wrong.  The nine on the Finance Committee are never third-rate Representatives such as myself.  They have true power."
"The Species Recognition Committee first," Sky said, ignoring him.  "How hard will it be for you to get it, once the opening is available?"
"How hard?"  Mullich snorted.  "They'd give it to me, if I let them."
"Good.  Take it.  The chairman is currently having second thoughts about spending so much of his time governing the stupid, mindless meetings."
Mullich paled.  "You're not serious."
"Once you are confirmed, we will move on to the next committee."
"You don't understand," Mullich said.  "You can't do that with the Finance Committee.  I doubt they'd let me in the room to vote, let alone apply as a candidate.  I represent Earth.  Earth has no finances.  We contribute nothing.  We have no interstellar trade.  It would be a joke."
"Species Recognition Committee first," Sky said.  "Let Forgotten and I worry about the rest."







CHAPTER 14: Machinations
Kragkhen was beginning to nod off as his slave read aloud the list of Congressional news when something caught his attention.
"Ueshi troops from Kaleu had a minor skirmish with smugglers on the outskirts of their system.  Apparently Jahul pirates have established another trade route.  They're requesting a Space Force contingent to investigate.  The Huouyt planet of—"
"Wait.  What did you just say?"
The Takki scanned the list.  "Ueshi troops—"
"Before that," Kragkhen growled.
"Representative Fred Mullich has taken the chair of the Species Recognition Committee."
Kragkhen snorted.  "The fool.  Kerjia's expedition must have frightened him."
"Would you like to hear more, sire?"
"No.  Tell me of the Huouyt.  The Human is not worth my time."
#
Representative Mullich looked haggard when he stepped back into his chambers.  "I was a laughingstock."  After watching the inauguration over the tiny screen set into Mullich's desk, Kim almost felt sorry for him.
"But you made the chair."
Saying nothing, Mullich slumped down behind his desk.  "You've ruined me."
"Now rescind all claims to any other committee."
Mullich stiffened.  "It took me nearly eight hundred years of maneuvering to get seats on the Travel and Welfare committees.  At least with those seats, I can ensure Earth gets the technology it needs to reestablish itself."
Sky showed not an ounce of caring.  "Forfeit them."
Mullich's face showed his disgust.  "I suppose I must now, after you forced me to pledge so much of my time to a useless waste like the Species Recognition Committee.  Did you know they actually laughed at me when they voted me on?  I'll never be taken seriously again."
Sky stood, not listening.  Kim, let's go.
Kim felt herself stiffen.  She hated going outside.  All those aliens gave her the creeps.  "Go where?"
"Watcher, take Kim and I to Hall 26, Seventh Deck."
Sjilak glanced up at him immediately.  "No!  You can't—"  The rest of his sentence was cut off as the Watcher fulfilled Sky's request.
"Maybe he was saying something important," Kim said, worried.
He wasn't.
"But Sky—"
We don't need him, Kim.  Sky moved to go.
Kim stepped in front of him.  "You're being stubborn, Sky.  We should take all the help we can get."
He doesn't want to help us, Sky said.  He's like Rri'jan.  There is no right or wrong with him.  Everything he does is to make the future more acceptable to him, and an 'acceptable' future just means his head doesn't hurt.
Kim didn't see it.  "But Sky, he's—"
If you ever use Joe Dobbs' lifestone, you will know what I mean.  Until then, do not question me.
Both of Kim's eyebrows soared.  "'Do not question me'?  You know, you've gotten really bossy lately."
Sky's face softened.  I'm sorry, Kim.  I'm under a lot of pressure.  Rri'jan got away, and I'm still trying to find him.  Aside from that, I have to monitor Forgotten constantly for new instructions and it hurts to stay connected to him.  Mullich is being difficult.  The Watcher frightens me.  I've got to worry about being seen, about making us appear to be something we aren't, sometimes to hundreds of minds at a time.  The Trith showing up only made things worse.
"You should take a break," Kim said, reaching up to touch a dark ring under his left eye.  "You're not getting enough sleep."
I can't sleep until we get off Koliinaat, Sky told her.  Too much is at stake.
"How long will that be?" Kim asked, suddenly worried for her friend.  "You don't look healthy."
I don't know, but I'll manage.  Now hurry.  Get out into the hall.  At that, he turned to face something striding toward them down the hall.  Kim's breath caught in her throat as she recognized the Dhasha from the Ooreiki ship.  He stopped as he was passing and turned, snorting like he'd smelled something bad.
He's not alone, Sky said.  Be careful.  No sudden movements.
As if she would make sudden movements with an enormous Dhasha scowling at her.  And it was her the Dhasha was scowling at.  Sky hadn't followed her into the hall.  He was watching at a distance, showing no sign of helping her.
"So what do you want?" Kragkhen demanded.  "Don't try to pretend you met me here by coincidence."
As Kim stared up at him in panic, Sky said, Tell him you want to talk about the Huouyt.
Kim did, and Kragkhen stiffened.  "What of them?"
Tell them they are overreaching themselves.
"You tell him," Kim snapped, turning to Sky.
Immediately, Sky gripped her mind firmly and wrenched her back around to face the Dhasha.  Kragkhen's shimmering rainbow lips were peeling away from his triangular black teeth, a growl rumbling in his chest.  Kim could only watch as Sky made her say, "I apologize.  One of my assistants is about to disappear.  He's not learned to refrain from contacting me while I'm speaking with friends."
Kragkhen seemed to calm.  "I am having my own faculty troubles, as it happens.  What do you want, Verbhan?"
"The Huouyt," Sky said, through her.  "I hear Keerstan is stepping down.  The Huouyt already have Travel, Arms, and Ministry.  They must not have Finance."
The Dhasha snorted.  "Kaj'nol would never get Finance."
"Perhaps we could assure that."
Kragkhen clacked his teeth together.  "You won't be getting it either, Verbhan."
"You are forgetting who helped you gain your seat, Kragkhen."
Kragkhen snorted.  "Humans got me my seat, Verbhan.  They killed Na'leen, not you."
"By accident.  A chance of Fate.  It was an Ooreiki planet where Na'leen died."
"Where he died is of no import.  I'd rather see a useless furg like Mullich take Finance than cast my vote for you.  Ooreiki already chair more committees than the Huouyt and the Ueshi put together."
"As you wish," Kim heard herself say.  Then Sky turned her on heel and the two of them walked away.
But they weren't finished.  The next place Sky took her, he didn't even bother to have her translate.  He simply spoke through her, with him standing at a distance.  It made Kim wonder if he was waiting for something to blow up on them and was using her as a sort of ten-foot-pole.
"Keerstan is stepping down," Sky said, through her.  "It is rumored the Dhasha will try to take his seat.  My first thought was you, Verbhan."
"Genbiraa."  The Ooreiki tapped a tentacle against the wall beside him.  "Who have you spoken to?"
"Kaj'nol."
The Ooreiki's slitted pupils narrowed within its glistening brown eyes.  "You spoke with the backstabbing slug?  You are of a stouter constitution than I, Genbiraa.  I would have found myself needing a second breakfast."
"Kaj'nol said he heard Kragkhen speaking of installing a Dhasha in the upcoming chair.  I doubt he was speaking of the Species Committee."
"And I doubt he was telling the truth.  The Dhasha already have the Tribunal.  The Huouyt are the ones who stand to reap the most benefit."  The tiny slits in the Ooreiki's neck fluttered momentarily.  "Fine.  Kaj'nol wants to start a war, I will give him one."
"How can I help?"
"Find Keerstan.  See if you can confirm the rumor.  I will speak to Rakken."
The next alien Sky made her speak with gave Kim goosebumps.  He was tall and slender, with midnight-black skin broken only by tiny, almost imperceptible red and purple striped patterns glowing in his skin.  He looked like something that should have been stuck to the seafloor, not walking around with Jreet bodyguards.
The alien stopped and stared at Kim as Sky made her approach.  When she stopped in front of it, its single arm unfurled from the center of its body like a butterfly's proboscis.  Kim forced herself not to wince as the two black, leathery-wet fingers traced themselves across her face.
"Representative Kaj'nol."
"I hope you fare well, Orbihl."
The alien withdrew its arm tentatively.  "The Ayhi always fare well.  We have few enemies."
"And you should keep it that way," Kim said.  "The powers of Congress are about to clash.  I suggest you stay out of it."
"I would gladly vote for the Huouyt, if it is your wish, Representative."
Kim scoffed.  "Don't waste your breath with lies.  Others will come to you with better bargains, stronger pressures.  I merely call to remind you this fight is for myself and my peers—and that people disappear when they defy the Huouyt.  Keep to the sidelines.  When you vote, I expect it to be for an insignificant."
The Ayhi looked confused.  "Why do you approach me, my lord?  I am not a threat.  The Ayhi make it their mission to avoid conflict."
"That is why I am warning you to stay out of it.  Blood will be shed if the Huouyt do not make this seat."
"If you do not want me to vote for you, my lord, then whom?"
Kim snorted.  "You expect me to do your thinking for you?  Vote for yourself, if you like."
The gentle black alien's six small, red eyes blinked in a wave.  "I could never presume myself capable of such a—"
"I do not care who you vote for.  Just make sure you're the only one who votes for him."
The creature bobbed its elongated black head once, gently.  "It will be as you say, my lord."
The next alien was a Jahul, though he smelled much cleaner—almost pleasant—than the toady little creatures Kim had met on the pirate ship.
"Good day, Daviin," the creature croaked.  "Have you also come to reprimand me?  That Ueshi fool cannot prove the Jahul were behind the attack, and I would appreciate it if Genbiraa stopped sending his lackeys to try and cow me.  It won't work."
"Call me an Ueshi lackey again and you will eat your entrails, Rakken."
The Jahul's smooth, yellow-green lips stretched across his face, revealing sharp incisors.  "Finally, one of you shows a spine.  Unfortunately, I believe you.  What do you want?"
"Keerstan is stepping down.  Kaj'nol is already attempting to cow the lesser members into backing him."
Rakken's amusement faded.  "Of course."
"Verbhan's got Genbiraa in his pocket and Kragkhen uses his membership on the Tribunal to court those votes the Huouyt have not already coerced out of the others.  That leaves us."
"Too hated to gain our own seat, too honorable to fall to tricks."  Rakken rubbed his sticky, leathery fingers over his bald head.  "Why is it us they despise, when it is the likes of Kaj'nol and Kragkhen who abuse their power?"
"They do not despise the Jreet, Rakken.  They fear us.  Some feel we already have too much power."
Rakken's yellowish lips quirked.  "They despise you.  You hold every Representative's life in your hands, every moment of every day.  They are forced to trust you—if they do not, Congress would be a very dangerous place.  Pity you are too honorable to take advantage of it."
"It would seem."
"What do you suggest?"
"Make sure Kragkhen and Kaj'nol walk away from the ceremony in disgrace."
Rakken rubbed his sticky fingers against his arm.  "How?"
"Make sure they both fail."
"Ah, yes."  Rakken took a deep breath.  "Such a simple thing—and yet so difficult.  For instance, how do I know you are not simply making a grab for yourself?  And how do you know I won't make a grab for myself, as soon as you leave?"
"I know because we were the last two to find out about Keerstan's decision.  Because we don't have spies hidden in our enemies' ranks, despite the fact they surely think we do.  Because they despise us."
The Jahul seemed to consider that, then nodded.  "For once, I think you may be right.  Perhaps it is time for the Jahul to have their day."
The next alien was of Sjilak's diminutive height, with a mottled blue-green skin and a long, quivering fin cresting its spherical head.  It appeared delicate, though when Sky made her approach him, it flew into a rage.
"How dare you come here, Rakken?  Do you wish to put our guards to the test?"  Genbiraa's Jreet had appeared between the two of them, glassy spears bared.  Again, Kim wondered if she was acting as Sky's ten-foot-pole.
"Hiding behind your Jreet does nothing to dull your reputation for cowardice," Kim heard herself say.  "But I come not for insults.  Keerstan is stepping down."
The blue-green Ueshi motioned its Jreet away, interest showing in his wet amethyst eyes.  "You come for a truce."
"Perhaps."
Greed began to show in the little blue-green alien's baby-like face.  "What is your offer?"
"The Jahul are second to none as traders.  The only reason the Bajna are more recognized by Congress is that they obey the rules."
"And you feel the Jahul would be the natural replacements for the Bajna."
"Imagine if our trade routes ran through your planets, instead of passing by them, Genbiraa."
"Historically, my vote is tied to Verbhan.  The Ooreiki have been much better friends than the Jahul, Rakken.  It would take a lot more than a few pirates to make it worth my while."
"What if I told you Verbhan's trying to maneuver the chairmanship into his own hands?"
The little Ueshi scowled.  "He would have consulted me first."
"Or he would have consulted me.  Check the logs, if you must."
"I will."
Sky made Kim nod and the Watcher transported them into a room filled with fire.  The hallway was different than the rest of Koliinaat.  It was hotter—almost too hot to breathe.  Flames glowed in crevices all along the walls, like the entire corridor was a tunnel into Hell.  The building material was stone, hot through the soft sandals the Ooreiki had given her.
Please tell me we're done, Kim thought, glancing around the place.  It reminded her of Forgotten's chamber—except the opposite.
There is one more.
Why don't you talk yourself?  Kim demanded. 
Rri'jan returned to Koliinaat after he poisoned me.  He set the Watcher to alert the Representatives if I try to approach them.  I must keep a distance of thirty feet or the warning will go off.
Kim felt herself grow cold.  Rri'jan was here?  Did he tell them about what we can do?
No.
Why not?
I don't know.  But he did use Kragkhen's access to put up protections against me.  So far, Forgotten's instructions to the Watcher have overridden most of them, but a few still remain.
But he's not concerned about me? Kim asked, feeling a little put out.
He knows you won't be going anywhere without me. 
Because Sky was the brains and Kim was just a pawn.  She felt her shoulders sink in dejection.
I couldn't do this without you, Kim.  Sky hit her with a wave of gratitude that made her heart warm.
"That's crap, Sky," she muttered.  "All I've done is sit around and eat bugs."
That will change soon enough.  Forgotten has plans for you.
As much as she wanted to do something, Sky's statement gave her a chill.  The last time she'd spoken to Forgotten, she'd also clubbed him in the face with a handful of metal.  What kinds of horrible things did he have planned for her?
For now, though, we must go through that door.
Kim peered at the double archway ahead of them, the orange stone dancing with the light of the flames.  Is that a problem?
We go as ourselves, not as another species.
As...ourselves?  Kim swallowed hard.  Why?
Because the Jreet respect only a few things in the world, and we humans have one of them.  Joe Dobbs.
Jreet.  The snakelike creatures that guarded the Representatives.  The ones all other races moved aside to allow passage in a crowded station.  Why would they know Joe Dobbs?
You mean you're just gonna ask him to vote for Mullich?
Yes.
And you think he will?
Yes.  Sky hesitated.  If we ask correctly.  If we don't...
If we don't what, Sky?
Just hope we ask correctly.
Kim felt cold despite the heat of the place.  "Sky, tell me you can stop him from doing anything nasty if we make him mad."
Sky's pause was enough.
"Look, it's just one vote.  Congress has thousands of votes.  If you don't think you can control him—"
"Control who, Human?"  The deep, rumbling voice made the stone walls of the place shudder.  Kim flinched and backed away.  Sky caught her arm and held it.
Jreet are mostly muscle and reflex.  Their mind and body are almost separate machines, each doing its own work, rarely consulting each other.  I can lull his mind, but his body will react of its own accord.  Still, though, if you ask correctly, we shouldn't be harmed.
"Enter before you anger me, Human."
Sky shoved Kim toward the double doorways.  She could hear something massive moving against the stone on the other side.  Kim bit her lip and looked back at Sky.  I don't want to do this.
Neither do I, Sky said.  And winked.
The son of a bitch.  Kim fisted her hands and stepped between the double stone arches.
The room whisked the sweat from Kim's face with an oppressive wave of dry heat.  All around, scarlet fires danced against sandy orange stone, reminding her of the inside of a potter's kiln.
Coiled in the center of the room was the biggest snake Kim had ever seen.
It was four feet wide at its midsection, with its ruby and cream body wound into a pile that was over Kim's head.  Looking at it, she knew that the thing ate bigger prey than she every morning at breakfast.
The Jreet lifted its diamond-shaped head, its huge yellow eyes fixing on her.  "My ears weren't deceiving me.  It was a Human speaking outside my chamber.  What do you want?"
When Sky offered no help, she said, "We're trying to get Mullich to gain the Finance chair."
"I was not aware any Finance seats were open."
Kim had been saying the same phrase so many times that it came easily to her.  "Keerstan is stepping down."
The Jreet watched her motionlessly, its head poised above its body like a cobra about to strike.  Finally, it said, "Mullich is too stupid to attempt acquiring a Finance seat on his own, too intelligent to think it would work.  Who is behind it?"
"My friend Sky," Kim said.
"Is your friend the one waiting in the hall?"
Kim bit her lip and nodded.  She dreaded the moment when the Jreet would call him in.
"Then your friend is either an utter moron or he has complete confidence in his followers."  The Jreet narrowed his eyes.  "Or he's a coward."  He said the word like he was tasting human shit.
"He's not a coward.  He's not allowed to come within thirty feet of a Representative."
"Really."  The Jreet seemed to consider that.  "Send him in."
"But—"
I'm coming, Kim.
As soon as Sky stepped within the threshold of the room, the Watcher's voice rang loud and crisp across the stone.  "Representative, the creature you see before you is a human telepath capable of bending minds to his will.  He is a descendent of the Human experiments for which Earth was punished six hundred and sixty-six turns ago.  I suggest immediate execution and investigation into how he has managed to escape the Watcher's sweeps.  Shall I detain him for you?"
That bastard, Kim thought.  Rri'jan knew Forgotten would find a way to get us on Koliinaat.  She glanced at Sky, biting her lip.
The Jreet was sitting up fully, now, towering over their heads by about eight feet.
"Representative?"  The Watcher sounded not at all interested in the fact that he was about to condemn Forgotten's friend and ruin his plans.  Kim held her breath.
"No.  Leave us."
The Watcher's presence disappeared.
"Explain yourselves, Humans."
"We are the great, great, great-grandchildren of Joe Dobbs," Sky said, stepping forward.  He held Joe Dobb's topaz in his hand.  "His memories of you suggested you might help us."
"His memories?"  The Jreet frowned down at the topaz in Sky's hand.  "What is that stone?"
"Everything he was," Sky said.  "To prove we tell the truth."
Slowly, languidly, the Jreet lowered its torso until Sky could drop the stone into its enormous palm.
This is where it gets tricky, Sky said, dropping the stone.  "You must put it to your forehead for it to work."
"My forehead."  The Jreet snorted, but did it.
Instantly, the Jreet stiffened.  A long, fanglike protrusion burst forth from the folds of skin in its chest, narrowly missing Sky's face.  Sky shuddered, but held his ground.  The Jreet's hand had dropped from his face and was fisted over the stone, yellow eyes staring down at them, glazed.  A moment later, its body began roiling like an angry earthworm, knocking furniture and fire-heated stones around the room.  The fang in its chest twitched again, though did not fully extend.
Kim started to back away to avoid the thrashing coils, but Sky held her arm.
Don't run, Sky warned her.  He'll kill us.
Finally, slowly, the big snake opened its big yellow eyes.  "Joe was my friend."  Then it focused on Sky.  "But you already knew that, if you had this stone.  That's why you didn't try to affect my mind.  How many other Representatives have you forced to vote as you choose?"
"None," Sky said.  "We've met with them, but we set them against each other, made themselves their own enemies."
"So what do you want from me?" the Jreet said.  Then he paused, glancing down at the stone.  "You want me to nominate Mullich."
"You are one of the nine," Sky said.  "Only nine names can be put forth."
The Jreet sank back down and lowered the topaz into Sky's hand.  "What is it you intend to do, once Mullich has his chairmanship?"
"Stop a war," Sky said.







CHAPTER 15: The Message
"Ah.  My old friends."
Kim froze at the soft, musical voice emanating from the shadows in the empty hall.  They had been making another round of political visits and both Sky and Kim were physically and mentally tired, but still had another five Representatives to visit on Forgotten's list before they could go to bed.
"I see you can negate poisons, else your talented friend wouldn't be standing here, would he?"  The total calm with which the Huouyt said the words made Kim quail.  The assassin picked idly at the wall where he was secured in the shadows, her grandmother's pendant glittering against his chest.  "That was a productive gambit on my part.  You do realize how valuable that would make you to the right people, don't you, Human?"
Sky, make him leave, Kim said, her whole body tense.
I can't get past his mental barriers, Sky replied, his fear threatening to overwhelm her.  He's learned since last time!
"And you somehow managed to override my safeguards with the Watcher.  I would assume that means you found Forgotten."  Rri'jan hovered in the shadows like something out of a nightmare, his downy cilia swarming over his body in waves, his blue-white eyes catching and holding the light, making them glow in the darkened recess of the hall.  "How is my old friend doing?"
Sky, we can't let him touch us.  Kim glanced behind her.  Sky was watching the assassin intently, sweat already staining his face.  He does something to poison us when he touches us.
They can all do that, Sky said, looking strained.  They make poisons with their bodies.  He's one of the best.
"Perhaps Forgotten told you of our history together," the assassin said.  When neither of them moved, Rri'jan said, "No?  I would suppose not.  Why would he want to ruin a productive business relationship?"  The Huouyt stepped toward them.  "I have, after all, sworn to kill him after I've destroyed everything he cares about, and I'm willing to subjugate myself to a moronic Dhasha patron to do it.  The word of a Va'gan to the living dead."
Kim backed up hastily, her heart thundering in her ears.  Rri'jan moved to follow her, but Sky stepped between them. 
"Leave her alone," Sky warned.
The Huouyt paused, looking into Sky's eyes.  They were about the same height, though the Huouyt seemed to have more mass.
Rri'jan made an amused sound.  "Didn't learn the first time, Human?"  He never moved towards sky, instead giving his wrist a casual flip, and Sky's eyes widened suddenly.  The telepath did not fall, but stood weaving on his feet until Rri'jan reached out and steadied him.
"You see," Rri'jan said, holding Sky in place, "I 've had more time to study your anatomy.  I can do anything to you, human, and you could not stop it."  He suddenly had a gleaming black knife in his tentacle, the blade kissing Sky's throat.
Sky whimpered, eyes widening, clearly wanting to push away, but incapable of even twitching.
"Don't!" Kim cried.  She went to push the assassin away from her friend, but Rri'jan stopped her with a look.
"You interfere and he dies," Rri'jan said softly.  Her grandmother's pendant glittered around his neck as he glanced back at Sky.  "I just want to make sure he understands."  He drew the knife away from the Minder's throat, tracing the tip up Sky's cheek, leaving a faint red mark behind where the metal scratched the surface.  "I've always liked the way Human's bleed.  Your circulatory system is so...fragile."  The knife bit into the skin of his cheekbone, causing a bead of crimson to form at its tip as Sky shivered.
"Please don't hurt him," Kim whispered.  She clenched both fists, wishing she could only reach her second consciousness on her own.
"Hurt him?  No.  I'm educating him."  He lifted the knife, allowing the blood to drip down the Minder's cheek like a crimson tear.  "This is what happens when you cross the Huouyt and think beyond your station."
He's going to kill him, Kim realized, in horror.  She tried to push herself into her second consciousness, but the knife so close to her friend's jugular was distracting.  "Please don't hurt him.  I'll Make you anything you want."
The tip of Rri'jan's blade hesitated under Sky's right eye, total psychotic nothingness coming from the Huouyt's fishlike gaze.  "Do you hear her, Human?  She begs for your life."  He pushed the blade gently into the skin under his eyelid, making Sky's entire body shudder.  A trickle of blood began to seep from under the blade to join the first, making Sky look as if he were crying blood.
"Please," Kim said, shivering, ashamed at her own helplessness.  "Please don't."
"Perhaps you should have asked Forgotten of our history together before accepting his assistance.  You see, the Geuji betrayed me a Sacred Turn ago.  Since then, I have made it my mission to kill every contact, every friend he ever had.  He made a pact and he broke it.  I made a pact and I've kept it—everyone he loves, anyone he needs, every single creature that helps him—I will kill them all.  Then, once I have decided he has suffered enough, I will kill him, too."  The assassin paused, glancing at Kim.  "And, now that I know you have entered into a bargain together, I intend to leave him with a message."  He pushed the knife deeper into her friend's eye socket.  Sky whimpered and shuddered, but couldn't pull away.
"Leave him alone!" Kim screamed.  She tried to push Rri'jan aside, but the assassin simply reached out and slapped her arm.  Kim felt a sting of pain and then nothing.  Her body went as numb as if she had been beheaded.  Kim tried to forcibly push herself into her second consciousness, but it would not work.  Trapped by fear, without Sky's mental nudge, she remained frozen.
"The message is this," Rri'jan said, his attention once more on Sky.  "Abandon his plans with you completely—revoke the Watcher's assistance and allow both of you to be reclaimed by Kerjia—and I will end his misery now.  If he continues to help you, however, I will kill both of you slowly.  Afterwards, I will send video of your final moments to him, so that he may watch his hopes wither with your slow, excruciating deaths before I hunt him down and kill him, too."
All Sky could do was let out a low whine of terror.
Rri'jan paused, dragging the Minder closer, looking Sky directly in the eyes, their gazes only inches apart.  "Can you read my mind now, my talented friend?  I opened it for you.  Do you see what I'm about to do to you?"
Sky's eyes were wide where they stared at Rri'jan.  Wide and frightened.
"Probably not, now that I think of it.  There are so many possibilities.  I'm having trouble deciding."  Rri'jan lifted his knife from the skin under Sky's eye.  Blood seeped out behind it, dripping onto the floor between him and Sky.  Kim could feel the Minder's relief like a flood in her mind. 
Casually, Rri'jan went on, "After all, you two haven't done anything to me directly.  My humiliation of losing Representative and being cast from my family head was entirely the Geuji's doing."  He sighed, leaning back to wipe blood off the knife thoughtfully, still watching Sky, considering.  "And, now that I'm thinking about it, it's been clear from the start the two of you are both innocent, caught up in the unjust machinations of a disinterested universe.  I could probably let you both go and take up my complaint with Forgotten directly and it would be more fair."  He moved a tentacle over Sky's neck and the Minder gasped.
"Do you think that would be more fair, my Human friend?"  Rri'jan went on.  "You can use your mouth now.  I adjusted the dosage."
"We did nothing to you," Sky whimpered.  There was a wet stain in the crotch of Representative Mullich's borrowed cotton pants, spreading down his leg.
Rri'jan paused, motionless.  "Oh, but you did.  You came to him as a friend. It's the only reason he would have helped you."
Sky shuddered and whimpered again.
Rri'jan moved closer again, his voice lowering seductively.  "And you, being his friends, do not deserve my mercy."  At that, he grabbed the back of Sky's head and drove his knife into Sky's right eye.
Sky screamed.  As her friend fought and writhed, Rri'jan gave the knife a professional twist and tore out his eye, still skewered on the blade of his knife like a pink and white kebab.  Seeing it, Kim retched, sickness overwhelming her guts.  Sky shuddered and fell to the ground, his remaining eye rolled into the back of his head as blood welled in the empty orbit.
Rri'jan turned toward Kim, her friend's azure eye still impaled on his knife.  Kim saw the deep blue that had once been part of the telepath's gaze and felt herself vomit.
"Ah.  You must wait your turn, child."  Rri'jan lowered the knife to her shoulder and pulled back, sliding Sky's eye from the blade.  It rolled down Kim's chest and fell to the ground at her feet.
"Now," Rri'jan said.  "What should I take from you?  It is fitting the telepath loses his sight, but what about you?"
Kim was so scared she felt her own bladder loosen.
The assassin seemed to find that funny.  "Ah.  It's only fitting a coward should have cowards for friends."  He reached down and Kim felt him lift her right hand into his view.  He began manipulating the fingers before her, casually eying them with his electric, blue-white gaze.
No, her mind whimpered.  Please no.
Rri'jan settled on her thumb.  He wiggled it in front of her, making sure she saw which digit he had chosen.  Then he lowered it against his knife and looked up at her.  "You don't think this is fair, do you?  You don't think you've done anything to deserve this."
Still holding her gaze, Rri'jan jerked the knife up, tearing through the joint of her thumb.  Pain arced up her arm, making her gasp and tremble, but she couldn't fight.  Rri'jan held up her hand.  Blood was pumping forth in small gushes from the bony stub that had been her thumb, spattering the floor.  He manipulated the truncated digit between his other paddle-like hand, still watching her.  Then he threw it to the floor and moved on to her pinkie.
"I don't believe it is fair to merely take one.  Your friend only has two eyes.  You have ten fingers.  Huouyt make do with only two fingers their whole lives.  I think you can spare at least three."  He folded her pinkie over his knife, settling the blade in the joint with finality.
No, Kim thought, shuddering.
Rri'jan jerked his knife through the joint.
Agony lanced her arm.  Rri'jan held up her hand and Kim felt herself growing dizzy.  Her thumb and pinkie were missing, blood pumping from the wounds too fast.  She felt her gorge rise again and thought she was going to pass out.
Meanwhile, Rri'jan began playing with her fingers again.  "I'll be merciful, though.  I'll leave you the two largest, the most dexterous."  He folded her ring finger over his knife, settling the blade in the notch of the first joint.
Please, Kim thought.
Rri'jan yanked his knife through the finger, severing it from the hand.  He held the digit out to her.  "Now, be sure to pass my message on to Forgotten.  I wouldn't want to have to deliver it a second time."  He tucked her last severed finger into her coat pocket and walked away.







CHAPTER 16: Forgotten's Reply
Some time later, Mullich found them laying on the floor of the empty hallway, bleeding to death.  Kim vaguely remembered his commands to the Watcher, but minutes later, she was on an operating table, Ooreiki doctors working on her truncated fingers.  The table beside her was empty.
Is Sky dead?
The answer was immediate.  No, Kim.  I'm all right.  They can't help me, though.  They don't have the materials on hand to give me a new eye.
But they can fix my fingers? she thought, the injustice of it making her stomach hurt.
They're not real, Kim.  They're fake.  Metal and wire.
And he was right.  Once they finished with her, they returned her to Mullich, who bundled her back to his room, giving her only a brief glimpse of shiny steel before he wrapped her entire body in a blanket and began asking her questions.
"It was Rri'jan," Kim told him. 
The knowledge made Mullich pale.  "Rri'jan...the assassin?  He's supposed to be dead."
"Well he's not," Kim snapped.  "And he attacked us because we met with Forgotten."
Beside her, Sky was staring at the wall, giving no indication that he'd heard.  His missing eye was cleaned and healed, though the eyelid sank inward, into his skull.  He hadn't said anything since waking up from surgery.
"Former Representative Rri'jan?  The former head of the Ze'laa family of Huouyt?"
"That's who he said he was," Kim bit out.  She was completely disillusioned with this place, with Sky's plan, with aliens and the universe in general.
"If it was him, why are you still alive?" Mullich demanded.
"It was a message for Forgotten," Kim said, feeling her gorge rise again as she remembered.  "He wants Forgotten to stop helping us."
"Then Forgotten must cease," Mullich said.  "Rri'jan will kill both of you.  No one can stop him if he's determined to kill."
"The Watcher could stop him," Kim said.
"The Watcher, despite Forgotten's overrides, still serves Congress.  I'm guessing the rumors are true and Rri'jan is working for Kragkhen.  That means he is acting as an assistant to the Tribunal.  No one has higher access but the Tribunal members and the First Citizen himself.  The only room you are safe in on Koliinaat is this room right here.  Rri'jan could find you anywhere else."  Representative Mullich leaned forward.  "And he will find you.  In all of Congress, there is no one more gifted an assassin than Rri'jan.  He could kill any Representative on Koliinaat, even with the Watcher's protection.  You must tell Forgotten what happened."
"No," Sky said, turning back.  His gaze still held the same spine-chilling power, even at half strength.  "Forgotten will not know."
Mullich frowned at him.  "Why not?  You would rather take your chances with the assassin?"
"If Forgotten knew, he would kill him."
Mullich blinked.  "So?  Rri'jan is one creature that more than deserves to be dead.  Look at what he did to the two of you."
Sky shook his head and looked away.
Kim's lips pressed together as she watched her friend.  Dobbs' balls, he couldn't even kill Rri'jan after he took his eye.  He doesn't even blame him for it.  For once, Kim saw Sky's empathy as a sign of weakness, not strength.  He won't even kill someone to protect himself or his friends.  He can't kill someone.  If Rri'jan returns for us, he'll let him take the other eye rather than try to stop him.
Feeling sick, Kim balled her steel fingers into a fist.  They felt cold and hard against the skin of her palm, reminding her of the Huouyt's knife as he touched it to the underside of her joints.  You're wrong this time, Sky.  Let Forgotten kill him.
Sky did not reply.
"We should abandon the plan," Mullich said.  "If Rri'jan's got Tribunal overrides..."  He shook his head.  "You have no idea what he could do to us if he wanted to."  He gestured vaguely at the door to his chambers.  "Hell, the Watcher has no record of your attack whatsoever.  All sensory equipment blacked out for a hundred-dig radius for forty tics."  He made a cutting motion with his hairy hand.  "We need to abandon this fool's errand.  I'll send you home, try to salvage what we can."
"No," Sky said suddenly.  "Take the Planetary Claims chair.  We continue with Forgotten's plan.  Let me worry about Rri'jan."
Kim glanced at Sky, eyes catching on his empty socket.  But that's the point, Sky.  You couldn't stop him last time, and you won't be able to stop him next time.
Sky never responded.
#
Kragkhen paced as his slave read him the news.  Things were getting more and more out of hand, now that Keerstan was expected to step down.  Keerstan repeatedly denied the rumors, sometimes violently, but everyone was nonetheless jostling to secure a nomination from one of the eight Finance members in case his denials were a means to host a surprise vote and install his chosen successor before arrangements could be made to stop him.  It was becoming a danger simply to mention 'Finance' within Koliinaat's gravitational pull, much less attach one's own name to it.
Further, the upcoming chairmanship had sparked open hostilities between the Ueshi and the Ooreiki—two traditional allies who seemingly out of nowhere had begun working against each other. 
If the Ooreiki and the Ueshi can go to war, no one is safe.
Guards had been doubled on every Representative, tripled on those eight surviving Keerstan on the Committee.  Of those eight, six of them had already nominated themselves for the chair.  That left the Jreet and the First Citizen, neither of whom would give even the slightest indication of their intentions.
Kragkhen, who still needed a nomination, had already approached the First Citizen and been rebuked. 
"Is your power not enough already that you must control the economy, as well as justice?" Aliphei had asked him, his beady red eyes sharp.  Kragkhen had been left to sputter in humiliation as the First Citizen's attendants disinterestedly combed out Aliphei's shaggy blue fur and polished and capped his four black tusks with ruvmestin knotwork.  The Shadyi hadn't even given him the respect of a private attendance, combining his time with that of a famous yeeri metalsmith who was even then presenting the First Citizen with fine jewelry.
Kragkhen had left the meeting shamed and furious.  As desperate as he was, however, the last thing he would do was bow and scrape before Daviin.  Jreet were too smug for their own good in that they were the only creatures in Congress that could kill Dhasha in honest combat, never mind the fact that ten died for every one Dhasha.  Daviin, in particular, was overly confident.  He never missed an opportunity to remind Kragkhen that he had made princes dance on the tip of his tek, all while surviving the most dangerous deep den penetration in history. 
Now, a Sacred Turn later, Daviin ga Vora was one of only seventeen Jreet producing his own young, while Kragkhen still had not been confirmed to begin his own harem, due to the fact that his even-more-ancient father—while uninterested in the Regency seat—did not have the decency to die so that his sons could continue the family line.
No, I will not beg for that Takki's favor.  He'd literally rather lick Takki piss from the back of a Jahul than ask Daviin ga Vora for anything.  One of the self-nominations would simply have to withdraw their name from the vote.  To do that, however, Kragkhen needed finesse where he was accustomed to brute force.
He was beginning to regret sending Rri'jan off to kill the Geuji.
Kragkhen was still pondering this when a name caught his attention from his slave's monotonous recitation.  "Stop.  What about Mullich?"
"He abdicated his seats on the Travel and Welfare committees to devote himself more fully to the Species Recognition chair.  Then, later this afternoon, he accepted an offer to replace Gjer Hoig on the Planetary Claims Board.
"Species Recognition and Planetary Claims for Travel and Welfare?  Has he lost his mind?  A seat on either one of those is worth the chair of both Species Recognition and Planetary Claims combined."
"I am only reading what is in the announcements, master," the Takki said.  "If you wish, I could request more information."
Kragkhen grunted.  "No.  Speaking of Humans, has Kerjia found the two escapees yet?  Rri'jan says they're still alive and on the loose in Congress."
"His reports contain nothing of the kind, master," the Takki replied.
"Very well.  Add a note to his record that Overseer Kerjia has failed in his duties and submit a request to his supervisor that he be replaced."
"Another, sire?" his Takki asked, writing the note.  "You believe they will heed you this time?"
"No, but it will make Kerjia's life interesting for the time being."  It still rankled him how...forceful...the Ooreiki's stare had been as he'd confronted him on the ship.  For the hundredth time, Kragkhen realized he should have eaten the Overseer for the disrespect.  Ooreiki tasted bad, true, but even the indigestion and the minor sanctions that killing a ranking officer of the Congressional Ground Force would bring him would have been worth seeing the brief flash of fear in Kerjia's eyes before he bit him in half.
Instead, he was haunted by the Overseer's clear disgust.
The Takki bowed and began to depart.
"Wait.  Check the logs for me.  Daviin is holding out.  I want to know who he's been meeting with."
The Takki did, then turned back, frowning.  "There's an entry here, but it has no name, no species.  Two beings, neither identified."
Kragkhen felt his scales compress against his chest.  "How is that possible?"  Because he knew the Takki could not answer, he said, "Watcher, tell me the names and ranks of Daviin's two most recent visitors."
The Watcher ignored him.
Disgusted, Kragkhen clarified his request.  "Watcher, list the names and ranks of the last two visitors to Representative Daviin's chambers."
"It cannot be done.  Please stop asking, Representative Kragkhen."
Kragkhen felt his scales crawl.  Had the First Citizen given someone immunity?  If so, why?  Were he and Daviin in league with each other?  What were their goals?  Was someone on the Finance committee under investigation?  Why hadn't the rest of the Tribunal been informed?
Then Kragkhen had an insane thought.
What if he was the one being investigated?  It would explain why he could not access Daviin's log, and why he hadn't been notified.  They might be researching his habits, investigating his holdings, preparing a dossier on his staff.
Suddenly, Kragkhen was very grateful Rri'jan was out hunting Geuji.
#
They were sitting in the hull of a ship, sorting and moving crates, when Sky sat up suddenly from his nap.  Kim looked up.  Forgotten had given her and Sky the task of converting the cargo of eight ships docked on the planet from stone to something else.  He had given them a list of different substances, each with a specific amount they were to make, as well as a sample of each for Kim's convenience.  Though mundane, the work had been a relief to Kim, as it was finally something that she could do, and only she could do.  She still needed Sky to help her get into her second consciousness, but once she was there, she could work all day and not need any help.
Sky stared at the stack of finished crates, his one eye open alertly, but unfocused.
"What is it?" Kim asked.
Forgotten wants to switch again.
Kim lost her hold on her second consciousness in her resulting pang of fear.  "But Sky—"
He's coming.  Don't tell him about Rri'jan.  Then Sky's eye glazed momentarily and Kim knew he was already performing the switch.  When he blinked again, Sky's mountainous presence was no longer permeating the room, leaving her with the highly-intellectual sharpness of the Geuji in its place.
As soon as Forgotten was in Sky's body, he said, "What is wrong with his eye?"  He reached up and gently probed the missing organ. 
"Rri'jan," Kim said.
Forgotten frowned and dropped his arm, his eye catching on Kim's metallic fingers.  "And your hand?"
"Rri'jan," she said, looking down at her fingers in shame.  I could have stopped him.
A flash of anger crossed Forgotten's face.  "Why didn't he tell me?"
"Sky didn't want you to know," Kim said.  "He was afraid you'd kill Rri'jan."
Forgotten paused several long moments, then turned and strode directly to the crates, not bothering to acknowledge her reply.  He opened one of the boxes and peered inside.  "How long will it take you to fill this order?  I've got fourteen more just like it."
Kim balked.  She was on the fourth ship out of eight.  She had been under the impression that as soon as she finished the last ship, she would once again have nothing to do.  After endless days of monotonously changing rock into other materials, she wondered if that would be such a bad thing.
"Well?" Forgotten demanded.  "Are you getting any faster at it?"
"A little," Kim admitted.  "But I still can't reach my second consciousness without Sky."
"Huh," Forgotten said, considering.  "Very well.  Come with me."  He walked to the back of the ship and pulled the top off of one of the crates.  It was filled with chunks of stone, awaiting her attention.  Forgotten threw the top away and pointed to the reddish rocks.  "Change that."
Kim felt a bit of irritation.  "I just told you I can't do it without Sky."
Forgotten cocked his head at her.  "You've never done it without Sky?"
"Never."  Then she bit her lip.  "Well, no.  I did it twice.  I was going to kill Rri'jan for what he did to Sky...and then there was that time with you."
"Hmm.  Watcher, Mullich's room.  The female and I."
"Absolutely, Jemria."  The cargo hold blinked out of sight, and in its place appeared the small, sparsely-furnished Representative's quarters.  Sjilak sat in one corner, pouring through one of Mullich's ancient paper tomes.  Without pausing, Forgotten stalked up to the Trith and kicked him in the face. 
Sjilak fell backwards, grayish blood oozing from his broken nose.
Forgotten once more stepped on the Trith's chest, and bent down to peer into his startled eyes.  Casually, he reached down and twisted the Trith's bleeding nose, wetting the tips in the grayish blood. 
"Stop!" Kim said, her shock at Forgotten's sudden attack wearing off.  "You bastard!  Stop hurting him!"
Forgotten lifted his foot from the Trith's torso and said, "Watcher, Cafeteria O-92.  Female and myself."
The Watcher's presence solidified and he said, "As you wish, Jemria."
The dormitory blinked out of sight, replaced by the same smoky glass room where Kim had first met Sjilak.  Forgotten hesitated and glanced at the gray blood still staining his hand.  "Watcher, how do you know it's me?"
"You have a much stronger inflection to your voice, Jemria.  The human is more soft-spoken."
Forgotten grunted and started walking back into the cafeteria.
"Wait," Kim said, biting her lip.  "Why are we back here?"
Forgotten gave her an irritated glance, then said, "You'll see."  He pushed into the room, which was a lot less packed than it was the last time they had been there.  Still, however, Kim heard the alien whispers, and felt her face burning with embarrassment as she fell under their stares.  She lowered her eyes to the floor and followed as close behind Forgotten as she could.
Thus, she did not see Rri'jan until he spoke.
"Ah.  You did not learn your lesson the first time, human?"
Kim's head snapped up.  Rri'jan sat alone at a table, her grandmother's pendant glittering upon his neck, staring up at Forgotten with the same sick smugness his eyes had carried when he'd maimed them.  She immediately felt a reflexive tightening in her gut, both of fear and anger.  She stepped backwards, away from him.
Forgotten sat down at the table in front of Rri'jan, showing not the slightest sign of fear.
And why would he? she thought bitterly.  It's not his body.
"Congress couldn't replace your eye?  Pity."  Rri'jan ate an orange drop, watching them with clear amusement.
"We need to talk, you and I," Forgotten said.
"Ah.  Does the Human come to beg?  To seek my favor?  Did he realize he needs me for his grand plans?"
"Actually, no," Forgotten said.  "You're going to stay out of them."
The Huouyt blinked, then made a musical chitter.  "Are you trying to threaten me?"
"It's a simple statement.  This plot is going to be difficult enough to enact without your further interference.  Thus, I will not allow you to impede me.  You may either make the choice yourself or the choice will be made for you."
The Huouyt stared at Forgotten for several moments before slowly reaching down and removing another orange glob from the plate in front of him.  He touched it to his face and the wormy appendage wriggled out to grasp it.  Finally, he said, "Something's different about you.  If I were not better educated, I would assume you were one of my kind attempting to trick me.  Perhaps a Peacemaker or a Representative's spy.  However, you are a Human.  There is no doubt of that in my mind.  Were you pretending, earlier?  I'm impressed, Human.  You willingly allowed me to take your eye in an attempt to deceive me?"
"Not at all.  That wasn't me."
For once, the Huouyt looked confused.  His electric-blue eyes were fixed on Forgotten as if he were trying to put a puzzle back together.
Forgotten took one of the orange lumps from the plate in front of Rri'jan and popped it into his own mouth.  He smiled as Rri'jan stared at him.
"Who are you?" Rri'jan finally demanded.
Forgotten's gaze hardened and he leaned forward.
"I am Forgotten," Forgotten said, his face was but inches from Rri'jan's, "And this is your only warning."  Then he jammed his arm forward, ramming his stiffened fingers into the slit in Rri'jan's head.  The Huouyt's eyes went wide suddenly, then his whole body seemed to melt before them.  It began to lose the downy white cilia and turn gray, his head growing larger and elongating.
Forgotten retrieved his hand from the Huouyt's face and wiped the remnants of Sjilak's blood on his shirt, standing.
In moments, the Huouyt was on the floor, his head too heavy to lift.  He stared up at them in open shock, huge black eyes filling a teardrop-shaped face above a tiny mouth and nose.  He was, to all appearances, a Trith. 
Kim stared at Rri'jan, not quite sure she was not hallucinating.
"The Huouyt change their shape based on genetic input.  It's why they have to eat these disgusting sterile nutrient patties."  Forgotten shoved the bowl away from him and moved to stare down at Rri'jan.  "If they ate anything else, they would become that creature.  Imagine the horror if they were to consume, say, vegetable matter."
Rri'jan's huge eyes widened slightly.
Roughly, Forgotten flipped Rri'jan onto his stomach and held him there as he took off his shirt.  He gave Kim a questioning glance and held up the shirt, caught between his hands as he was about to rip it.  "May I continue uninterrupted this time?"
She blushed and nodded.
Forgotten shredded the shirt, and, keeping the cloth between his skin and the Huouyt's, bound the Huouyt's skinny gray wrists behind his back, then bound his feet together.
"Why doesn't he change back?" Kim whispered.
"Huouyt need water to negate a shift," Forgotten said.  Then, raising his voice officially, he began, "Watcher—"
"Wait!" Kim cried, realizing he might be about to dump Rri'jan into space.  She ducked to quickly unclasp her grandmother's pendant from the creature's skinny neck and yanked it free.  Then she stumbled backwards two steps, wrapping her fist around the green crystal, her heartbeat hammering in her ears.
Forgotten glanced at her hand, then her face, then, holding her eyes curiously, finished, "—Deck 37, Peacemaker Headquarters.  Only the Huouyt."
"As you desire, Jemria."  Rri'jan's pitch-black eyes were growing wide as he disappeared.
"There," Forgotten said, sitting back down.  "That will keep him occupied for a while.  The first thing they'll do is drug him until the only coherent thing he can do is drool.  It will be refreshing to see the mindless slug treated with a bit of his own medicine, won't it?" 
Forgotten waited, watching her, and Kim realized with a start he really wanted to hear what she thought.
"Very," she managed.
Forgotten grinned.  "You can relax.  He's not coming back for some time."
Kim swallowed hard and nodded, still stunned by what had just happened.
Grunting, Forgotten sat at the table and motioned at a startled Ooreiki standing at one end of the room.  The creature approached slowly, the little slits in its neck fluttering like wings.
"My friend and I would like food," Forgotten said.  "Do you have patterns for anything from Earth?"
"Do you know who that was?" the Ooreiki waiter asked through his translator.  He lowered his voice. 
"Rri'jan Ze'laa," Forgotten said curtly.  "Prince Kragkhen's assassin.  Yes, I know.  And it would behoove you to remain totally silent about his embarrassment, if you enjoy your life."
The Ooreiki blinked slitted brown eyes at him, pupils dilating, his fleshy mouth beginning to blubber.  "I just thought he was a karwiq trader..."
"Oh no," Forgotten intoned.  "That was the greatest assassin in the known universe, aside from maybe his illustrious brother the Peacemaster.  The same former Representative Rri'jan Ze'laa who was tried before the Regency for starting the war on Neskfaat, only to be spared by the Dhasha Representative Mekkval, to whom he owed a blood debt before Mekkval was executed by his former employee for betraying her groundteam."  He gave the Ooreiki a long, casual look. "Of course I knew who it was.  Why else would I humiliate him like that?"
Staring, the Ooreiki dropped the little black pad in his fingers.
"Now will you please bring us two servings of Human lasagna?" Forgotten continued.  "My friend here spends several minutes a week singing its praises and I've decided I will try it before I return to my body."
Startled, the Ooreiki bent to pick up the notepad, then nodded vigorously and hurried away.
"Sit down," Forgotten said to Kim, nodding at the seat Rri'jan had occupied not minutes before.  "It will take them twenty-seven minutes to research the food, another six to reprogram the generator.  We have time to talk."  The look he gave her, however, was that of a predator fixed on a rodent.
Slowly, Kim sat.
"Listen to me," Forgotten said, his voice going deadly serious, "I can't help you and Sky if you don't keep me informed."
"I wanted to tell you," Kim said.  "Sky wouldn't let me."
"Because he thought I would kill Rri'jan."
She nodded.
Forgotten took a deep breath and let it out in a sigh.  "He obviously doesn't understand what he's dealing with, and is so painfully empathetic that he will never understand."  Forgotten cocked his head at Kim, studying her.
"What?" Kim asked, nervous.
"I am trying to decide if you would allow me to monitor your actions.  Directly.  Without Sky as a go-between, as he is obviously unreliable."
Kim frowned.  "Monitor?  How?"
"I would have to install a device in your brain to transmit your sensory inputs back to me on a quantumly entangled level.  I'm reasonably sure you'd allow that—I'm simply debating whether you would allow me to make the connection two-way."
Kim stared at him.
Forgotten's face softened.  "It means I would, in essence, use technology to interact with you as Sky does."
"You mean you want to be able to talk in my head?"  Kim pulled away from him quickly.  "I hate that."
"Perhaps," he said, looking at her thoughtfully.  "Though it occurs to me there might be an alternative explanation."
Kim was lost again.  "...alternative?"
Forgotten waved Sky's slender fingers at his own head and torso.  "Either you are frustrated with him and you'll tell me no, or you are simply experiencing a biochemical response to his desirable attributes and are trying to hide your feelings with complaints."
Kim reddened.  She wasn't sure how, but she was pretty sure he had just insulted her.  She opened her mouth to tell him to go stuff himself when Forgotten lifted a hand.
"But hear me out before you decide.  You do this with me and nothing will ever happen to either you or Sky ever again as long as you are on Koliinaat.  If I had been present with you when you were attacked, I could have stopped Rri'jan.  The Watcher has codes that can override even a Tribunal member's commands."
Kim bit her lip.  "Is that all you could do?  Talk?"
Forgotten winced.  "Actually, no.  In order for me to be able to protect you, I'd need full control whenever I required it."
She swallowed hard.  "...like Sky."
"I'm going to have to fight fire with fire if we want to succeed here," Forgotten said.  "Or, in this case, ignorance and empathy with blood and inconvenient trips to Peacemaker headquarters."
The idea of having two Minders arguing in her skull had about the same appeal to her as wiping Jahul juices all over her brain.  Yet, from the very beginning, she'd felt Sky was too naïve...too willing to sacrifice himself to keep others from hurting.
Forgotten watched her reaction carefully.  "I know you disagree with some of Sky's methods.  You know he's too gentle.  Too passive."
Watching him warily, Kim gave a reluctant nod.
"I can support his weaknesses with my strength, create a more cohesive and functioning whole.  A team."
Kim felt her heart begin to pound as she stared back at Forgotten.  Sky's one eye watched her, his maimed blue gaze a reminder of how she hadn't been able to help her friend when he needed her most.  How she had the ability to end the Huouyt with a thought, and had helplessly watched him carve on her friend, instead.
"I know it's a difficult decision," Forgotten said.  "And I also know, if I were in your position, I would never agree."
Kim stared down at her fingers.  They were twining together anxiously, the metal parts cold against her skin.  She blinked when Forgotten reached out and laid his hand on them.  When she glanced up, his look was full of compassion.
"I promise you," Forgotten said softly, " I would not use the link for any untoward ends.  I just want to keep you two safe.  Especially Sky.  He needs someone watching over him.  He's too gentle to survive in this place without it."
Truer words were never spoken.  Kim glanced back at her hands.  She took a deep, quaking breath.
Forgotten patted her hand and pulled back.  "Never mind. I didn't expect you to say yes—I simply thought it was worth seeing if I was wrong.  It would make protecting you and Sky so much easier."
"I'll do it," Kim blurted.  As soon as she said it, she felt exposed.  She didn't know Forgotten at all.  Why would she trust him to play with her head?
Because he can help us, Kim thought, staring once more at her hands.
Forgotten reached out and lifted her chin until she was looking up at him.  His good eye was watching her carefully, the blue gaze intense.  "Are you sure?"
Kim nodded, though she was shivering all over.  Frowning at her own weakness, she forced her muscles to steady themselves.  She refused to vomit all over him like a little girl.  With as much strength as she could, she said, "But Sky won't like it."
Forgotten continued to hold her chin, watching her.  "You would trust me like this?  You would trust me with your powers?  You know Sky could not stop me if I decided to make you kill him, right?  Sky has no control over my thoughts.  If he tries to change one thought pattern, I have a billion more to take its place."
Kim pulled her head out of his grip, anger flooding her.  "Are you trying to scare me?" she demanded.  "Why ask for my help just to tell me something like that?"
"It's the truth," Forgotten said.  "And if you are anything like me, you appreciate the truth."
Kim felt her eyes stinging.  It wasn't fair.  Of course she didn't want to do it.  But after what Rri'jan had done, she was afraid.  After watching Forgotten turn him into a Trith, she was terrified.  Next time, Rri'jan would kill them both.  And Sky was too gentle to stop it—even if it meant his own death.
"I'll do it," she repeated.
Forgotten leaned back, still watching her.  They sat in silence for long moments, neither of them saying anything.  Finally, Forgotten said, "Do you know why I call myself Forgotten, Kim?"
She looked up at him and shook her head.
"I am not the only Geuji.  There are four thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three of us, including myself."
Her surprise must have shown, because he nodded.
"Congress has the rest of my kind imprisoned," Forgotten said.  "Almost two million years ago, we gathered in secret to form our own government, to create our own autonomous body as the Trith had done.  Every Geuji in the universe went to the meeting.  It was held in a secure location, in an unexplored star system, the gathering completely confidential on Geuji-maintained, utterly unhackable channels..."
Even though Kim wasn't a telepath, she could feel the Geuji's bitterness as he spoke.
"...and yet somehow, Congress was waiting for them when they got there.  The Trith had foretold the meeting and had given its location to Congress so that Congress would collect us all and end the headaches we were giving them."  Forgotten snorted.  "Now, each Geuji lives in an automated metal box, with no contact to the outside world whatsoever.  I am the only one who is still free, and I am only free because my mother sacrificed herself to reproduce in the hopes that one of her spores might cling to the cleaners' garments long enough to take hold elsewhere.  I survived six turns of torture in the headcom of an Ueshi pilot trainee before I outmaneuvered her into releasing me."
Thinking of the glistening piles of mold that made up the Geuji's helpless body, Kim felt her respect for Forgotten's struggle increase.  "Sky wants to save your people."
"And I appreciate that," Forgotten said.  "I think, of all of the thousands of politicians, leaders, rebels, criminals, and savants who have come to me with the same proposal, he's the only one who is genuine."
"He really does," Kim insisted.  "He wants to save everybody, not just you."
"I know.  His greatest weakness."  Forgotten sighed.  "And the agreement he made with me is...an obstacle, to put it mildly.  Not killing anyone is...difficult...when everyone is trying to kill you."
"I thought you said it was a challenge," Kim said.
"True," Forgotten said, "But this requires more of my direct involvement than any project I've ever embarked upon, exponentially increasing the chances I'm caught."
Kim grimaced.  "How are you gonna get caught when Sky and I are the ones doing your dirty work and you're floating safely in space somewhere?"
Forgotten smiled sadly.  "Congress and I have a...détente...of sorts.  I've been trying to get them to have mercy on my people and let them all die, and they're too afraid of me to do it."
Kim recoiled.  "Let them...die?"  Maybe Forgotten was heartless.  "You want your people to die?"
"Think about it.  My forebears will be locked in boxes until they die.  Which, for a Geuji, could mean hundreds of thousands of years.  Alone.  In darkness.  It is the very definition of hell for my species.  We were once spread across the entire surface of our home planet of Neskfaat, everyone touching, everyone able to interact in one gigantic web of thought and expression."  His hand reached out to find hers again, touching it gently.  He watched their fingers meet, seeming to savor the contact.
Kim stared at him, stunned by the despair in his voice.  "How long have you been alone?"
"Since I was born."  He withdrew his hand.  "Nine hundred and ninety-eight turns ago."  At her befuddled look, he added, "That's approximately one thousand two hundred and twenty-eight in Human years."
"That's a long time," she whispered.
"It is."  He seemed to search her eyes for something, then said, "Congress is looking for me, Kim.  Ever since they learned of my existence.  They had me once, but the Watcher and a friend of mine helped me escape.  Ever since, I've had an entire Ueshi Space Force assigned to hunting me down and capturing me if they can, killing me if they can't.  And I would never let them capture me."
"How do you protect yourself?" Kim asked.
Forgotten laughed.  "I am smarter than them.  Therein lies my protection."
She blushed and looked away.  Forgotten reached out and took her chin again, drawing her eyes back to him.  "Are you truly willing to let me connect with you in the same way you connect with Sky?"
Kim nodded under his intense gaze, thinking of Rri'jan, of Sky whimpering in his grip, of the assassin helplessly splayed on the floor in the pattern of a Trith.
Forgotten hesitated.  "It would be an...experiment...for me.  I have to warn you in good faith."
"Will it keep Sky safe?" Kim asked.
"Oh yes," Forgotten said.  "No one will hurt your friend again unless he does something outside the bounds of what I've specifically laid out for him."
"Then yes," Kim said.  "I'll be your experiment."
Forgotten was silent a moment.  Then, completely sober, he said, "In exchange for your trust, I'm going to give you something I've only given to one other." 
"What?"
"I'll give you a way to find me."
Kim frowned.  "Why would I want to find you?"
Forgotten chuckled.  "Hopefully you never will, because if you do, then it means my plan has failed and things have gone horribly wrong."  He traced his thumb across her jaw almost curiously.  "But you miss the point.  If I give you a way to find me, it gives you a weapon you may use against me.  It means, should you ever turn on me, Congress would know how to find me."  As he said it, he held her gaze, watching her reaction closely.
"Then don't tell me," Kim said, pushing his hand away.  "I don't want them to find you.  I want you to help Earth."
"And that," Forgotten said, his face softening, "Is exactly why I will give it to you."
#
Their dinner came and, after Forgotten had the Watcher scan it for poisons, they ate in relative silence, though Forgotten seemed to be concentrating heavily upon his plate of lasagna as he ate it.  Finally, once he was finished, he stood up and said, "Are you ready to perform the surgery?"
Kim choked.  "Surgery?"
"The device we talked about.  I must place it in your head before I return Sky's body to him or he would change your mind."
Kim stared at him, her heartrate beginning to skyrocket.  "You are going to do it?"
"Who else?"  Forgotten looked puzzled.
"I thought you'd get a doctor," Kim said, swallowing hard.
"No.  I would not trust someone else to keep their mouth shut afterwards.  Are you done eating?"
Kim glanced down at her half-eaten lasagna.  Suddenly, she lost all interest in food.  "Yeah," she said, shoving the plate away from her.  She swallowed again, clenching her shaking fingers into fists.  "You want to do it now?"
"Yes.  Why?"  She saw a brief flash of disappointment.  "Did you change your mind?"
"No," Kim said.  "I'm just...  I just thought you'd give me more time."  She peered at him.  "You're going to cut open my head?"
"The surgical procedure I have in mind is minimally invasive, but yes.  There really is no way around that.  I do not have the proper tools to enter through the sinuses."
Kim shuddered.
"Let's go.  You're only raising your anxiety levels."  He offered her his hand.
Kim took it.
"Your fingers are cold," Forgotten said, peering at her.  "You're nervous."
"Wouldn't you be, in my situation?" Kim demanded.
"I wouldn't be in your situation."  Forgotten touched her shoulder.  "But you are braver than I."
"Or stupider," Kim muttered.
"Well, of course."  Forgotten winked.  Then, loudly, he said, "Watcher, take me to the operating room on one of the ships I have docked here.  It won't matter which one—I prepared them all."
The Watcher's presence formed in the room.  "As you desire, Jemria."
Even as Kim was giving Forgotten an odd look, the cafeteria disappeared, replaced by the cold, clinical whites and blues of a hospital room, complete with metal tables and sterile white fabrics covering each surface.
"You mean you knew I'd say yes?" Kim demanded, her hackles rising.
"Actually, no.  I was going to perform the surgery on Sky."  Forgotten went to the table of instruments and began arranging them.  Prominent amongst them was a huge syringe filled with a silvery liquid.  Looking at her over it, Forgotten said, "His empathy was getting in the way of his goals."
Kim swallowed hard as she watched him work.  Her heart was pounding now that she was actually in the room, watching Forgotten organize his knives.  "You were going to do it to Sky?  Did he know?" 
"No.  And to be truthful, I wasn't going to tell him.  Will you climb up onto the table, please?"
Kim stared at Forgotten.  "You were just going to do it?  Why?"
"Because my bargain with Sky stipulated that there were no deaths.  I took that to include your life and Sky's, as well, though Sky would probably be willing to sacrifice the two of you to achieve his goals.  I am not."  He shrugged.  "This actually works out better, though, because I believe I could control your abilities, if you allowed me a bit of practice.  I think there are far too many nuances to Sky's abilities for even I to be able to control them, with any amount of practice."
Kim felt a sour taste in her mouth and considered canceling it right there.  She forced herself to clear her throat, however, and say, "So if Sky would allow you to sacrifice us, why do you care if we die?" 
Forgotten glanced up at her and was silent a moment.  Then, softly, he said, "Because I'm hoping that after this is over, I will have two friends where before I had none.  Call it an added bonus of our bargain."  He patted the padded operation table.  "If you will?"
Kim glanced at it and balked.  "I'm scared."
"I can sedate you, if you wish.  It is not necessary for the procedure, but it would make it much easier on your psyche."
Kim bit her lip, then nodded.
Forgotten went to a cupboard and touched a few alien symbols on the pad outside.  Three vials slid into the receptacle in the bottom, two of which he placed on the table with his instruments.  The third he emptied into a syringe.  He then wiped the hollow of her elbow with a cool, strong-smelling pad and touched the needle to her skin.
"Forgotten?" Kim said, pulling back.
He lowered the syringe.  "You can still change your mind."
"I'll be okay, right?"  She felt stupid asking, but she needed to know.  "This won't make me...somebody else?"
"Unless my intervention is absolutely necessary, you will not even notice a difference.  If I do take the helm, you will feel slight mental discomfort when you realize you are no longer in control, but I believe you've already experienced such with Sky and it should not surprise you overly much."  He held her eyes for a moment, then said, "Besides.  If I feel it necessary to take charge, then you would probably rather I be in control anyway."
Kim swallowed and glanced at her hands.  "Last time, on the ship, after putting us through surgery, the Ooreiki tried to brainwash us."
Forgotten blinked at her.  "Sky withstood brainwashing?"
"I let him...distract himself."  Kim took a shaky breath.  "How do I know...?"
"How do you know I won't try to brainwash you like the Ooreiki?"  Forgotten laughed.  "Kim, what I'm about to do is much worse."
"Oh."
"But if it makes you feel better, I will remove anything they left in there."
She let out a relieved breath and nodded.
"Very well.  You ready?"  He watched her, waiting.
"Yes," she whispered.  And held out her arm.







CHAPTER 17: Forgotten's Experiment
Forgotten gently lowered the Human to the table, then stood back to watch her.  He was touched—and a little awed—that she could trust him so completely.  He'd given her no cause—he'd called her an imbecile and provoked her to hit him hard enough to knock him back into his own body.
And it was trust, of that he was sure.  She wasn't stupid.  Of above average intelligence for a Human.  She knew what the surgery meant.  She knew the power she was giving him.
And still, here she was, breathing softly on his table.
Utterly helpless.
With her in his control, Forgotten could have anything he wanted.  He didn't need Sky.  He didn't have to stick to his bargain.  He could use her to make his own planet, and Congress would be unable to stop him.  He could kill Sky merely by overloading him with powerful emotions, then could use Kim to accomplish the things he had been planning ever since discovering he was alone amongst his people.
It would be much simpler that way.
Sky's plan, though possible, required a great amount of effort to keep it from falling apart and all of them ending up dead or captured.  If Forgotten miscalculated even the slightest bit, it could mean all of their deaths.  It was the first real chance he had taken since he had allowed Rri'jan Ze'laa to 'capture' him, and, with his inability to kill or break his agreement with Sky, it was much more dangerous.  Rri'jan had already proven himself a nuisance—if Forgotten had not been constricted by Sky's stipulations, he would have killed the Huouyt as soon as he learned that the two had used him to escape the Ooreiki.
Forgotten almost abandoned the telepath's starry-eyed 'plan' and took the matter manipulator to use for his own designs. 
Almost.
As he watched her gentle breathing, something about what he had said earlier rang true.  He wanted friends.  A lifetime of loneliness was too much for even him.  The brief contact he had with Sky each morning and evening were the highlights of his day, almost as good as the brief contacts Syuri made with him between thieving runs.  The thought of having constant contact with another being was more exciting to him than even the chance to get back at Congress for everything it had done to him and his kind.
He was so grateful for the opportunity—and her willing participation—that he knew he would follow through and tell her how to find him, should she ever need to.  It would be so much more interesting that way, much more interactive and mentally gratifying to know she felt his presence and accepted him and did not betray him by choice, rather than necessity.
Like Syuri.
As Forgotten clamped her head into place, something else happened for the first time in six hundred and eighty-seven turns...
He was nervous.
#
When Kim opened her eyes, Forgotten was standing over her, watching her intently.  He smiled when she saw him. 
Kim drew a deep breath.  "Did it work?"
You tell me.
The thought was distinctly alien, unlike anything she had ever felt before.  It was impossibly strong, but also gentle and sophisticated, like the touch of a scholar.  An alien, slime-mold scholar.
Kim shuddered and squeezed her eyes shut.  What had she done?
Forgotten seemed instantly crestfallen.  "You don't like it?  I tried not to make it too strong..."
She had thought that Sky's mental touch would be stronger than the Geuji's somehow, but it wasn't.  It was just...different.  "It'll just take getting used to," Kim said, trying not to let her nervousness show.
"Oh."  He watched her carefully.  "I can reverse the process, if you want, Kim."
She had to fight the impulse to tell him to do just that.  "Let's see how it goes," she said.  "I'm willing to give it a shot."  Not that, by this point, Forgotten needed her permission for anything, anymore.  The thought left her chilled.
I'm not going to hurt you with this, Forgotten said.  The gift you've given me is...inexplicable.  It means more to me than I can express.
"Just keep Sky from getting all of us killed," Kim said.  "We can call it even."
Forgotten gave her a long look, reading her eyes for much too long before he nodded.  "I'll keep the two of you safe."
Even though they were just words, Kim felt a wash of relief, despite herself.  "Thank you."
Forgotten looked like he wanted to say more, then nodded.  "But speaking of Sky, he's anxious to get his body back.  He's beginning to sense I've done something he won't approve of.  If I don't give it back now, he might be unwilling to exchange in the future."  Forgotten touched her shoulder tenderly.  "But if you want, I'll stay until you're feeling comfortable."
Kim opened her eyes and glanced up at Forgotten.  She felt both soothed and unnerved by his presence.  "Just let Sky back, okay?"
Forgotten's face fell a little before he nodded.
Almost instantly, the mental density of the room increased a thousandfold.  Sky blinked down at her, then a frown crossed his blond brow.  What did he do?
Kim sat up.  "He's going to stop Rri'jan next time he attacks us."
Sky grabbed her by the shoulders, his good eye filled with anger.
Kim, do you realize what you've done?
"I'm protecting us," she said.
I can't read him, Kim.  I have no idea what he's planning.  He could use you to destroy Koliinaat.  He could use you to kill.
Kim pulled out of Sky's grip, glaring at him.  "If you didn't trust him, why did you make the deal with him in the first place?"
Because he was the only one who could help us.
"And he still is," Kim said.  "So I figure we either trust him completely or we don't trust him at all and go home."
Sky pulled back, his gaze falling away from her.  He studied the floor for a few minutes before saying, Kim, I can't control him.
Glaring, Kim said, "So?  I can't control you, Sky, and I'm still your friend.  Maybe you need to learn what it's like to be a normal person.  Maybe you're just gonna have to have faith in somebody for once without being able to control their every thought.  Without being able to use them."
Sky looked up suddenly, hurt.  "You have it wrong.  You're my friend, Kim.  My best friend."
"Maybe you should've thought about that, before you let Rri'jan cut off my fingers."  As soon as she said the words, Kim regretted them, but she couldn't take them back.  The sentiment had been real, the feelings of rage, fear, and frustration bubbling within her ever since the attack.
Sky stared at her, looking stricken, obviously seeing those same thoughts play across her mind.  Then, softly, he said, "Watcher, take me back to Mullich's room."  Kim felt a pang of loss watching him disappear, knowing that something had changed between the two of them, something that would never return to the way it was.  She felt her vision blurring, but she viciously wiped the tears away.
Thank you, Kim.  Forgotten's gentle mental touch solidified into thought.  I know it was hard, but he needed to hear you say that.  He's too empathetic for his own good.
"Leave me alone," Kim said.  Her shoulders were shaking, her chest contracting with suppressed sobs.  She felt like she'd betrayed her friend.
Kim—
"Go away!" she cried.
I will.  But first, let me fulfill my end of the bargain.
"I already told you I don't want you to," Kim said.  "Just help Sky keep from getting us both killed and I'll be happy."
No.  You've trusted me and now I will trust you.  I have a contact on a Huouyt planet called Gha'Salao.  He is a Jahul by the name of Kvebi who works as a bartender in the city of Sh'ai.  He is one of only three of my contacts Rri'jan has not yet killed, though I keep as far away from him as possible to prevent his death, as well.
On his person, Kvebi carries a device I disguised as a gift of jewelry.  With the proper code, the device can be activated and it will give you the name of a planet.  My ship will be orbiting that planet.  Kvebi neither knows the nature of the device, nor does he have the code.  That I will give to you.  Once you have the device, squeeze the blue stone set in its center and say, "It is a horrible thing to be Forgotten."
Kim squeezed her eyes shut and nodded, the alien touch on her mind giving her goosebumps.  It was not unpleasant, nor was it as unyieldingly powerful as Sky's, but the thoughts felt oddly stilted, like they were being translated several hundred times before finally reaching her.
Like he had to tone it down so she could understand.
True to his word, Forgotten said nothing else.  Kim stared at the empty room, wondering what she was going to do now that Sky was angry with her.  She didn't like being alone.
And yet, she wasn't alone.
Kim considered that as she got off the table.  Was Forgotten listening to her every thought, the way Sky had done?
Yes.  The alien didn't seem apologetic or contrite, just answering a question that she hadn't asked.  Just like Sky.
She cleared her throat as she got off the table.  "Why are you the only one, Forgotten?  Are you smarter than the rest?  Is that why you escaped Congress?"
She picked up an immediate sense of excitement.  No.  Not at all.  I am one of the least intelligent, by far.  Some of the survivors are over five hundred thousand years old, and to a Geuji, age means intelligence.  With every year, our capacities grow, and continue to grow until the day we die.  I am just over a thousand years old, so I am quite insignificant compared to some of my peers.
"You said an Ueshi had you trapped when you were young?" Kim said, trying to ease her nerves that there were now two Minders who could chatter in her head, and one of them was mad at her.  "How did they get you?"
Forgotten must have understood that she was trying to ease her frayed nerves, because he enthusiastically continued, I believe what happened was that my mother killed herself so I could escape, but I have no proof of that.  What I do know is that as Congressional technicians were removing her body, my spore clung to a Peacemaker's biohazard suit.  I was barely sentient in those days—my body hadn't developed enough to allow me complicated thoughts.  I simply experienced, did not consider or react.
"So...a spore.  You really are a fungus."  She grinned, despite herself.
Probably the most interesting fungus you've ever met, Forgotten said. 
"Interesting how?"
I've spent the last thousand years studying history and could tell you any story you want to hear, from any major planet and even some minor ones.  There are also my personal exploits, of which I've had many.  I could tell you any of over thirty thousand major heists that I've orchestrated from the comfort of my climate-controlled chamber, including bringing down the Ze'laa and a hundred and thirty-three of the most dangerous, specieist Dhasha princes in Congress.
Kim frowned.  It almost seemed as if Forgotten were trying to impress her.  "Just tell me what happened to you as a spore."
The sanitation procedure wasn't complete—I believe he didn't raise his arms or something—and eventually, the Peacemaker washed me off into the basin of a sanitation system, where I stuck to the side of the bowl for a few days.  From there—
"The bowl," Kim interrupted.  "You mean like a toilet bowl?  You started out life in a toilet?"
A wash of embarrassment hit her in an anxious tinge.  From there, I survived on a recruit's scrub-pad until the recruit used it to clean her helmet.  I do not know what you know about Congressional warfare, but they have helmets that are geared to send and receive messages by picking up the wearers' brainwaves, thus making soldiers more efficient in battle, since they do not have to give away their location by physically talking.
"I've never been in a war," Kim said.
Sky is right to want to avoid it.
"So you went from a toilet to a helmet?"
She felt that wash of embarrassment again.  Yes.  With time, I realized I could manipulate the impulses I was feeling through the helmet.  I had an 'awakening' moment, if you will, and I began to talk to the Ueshi who owned it.  I guided her through training and the years after, though to my chagrin, once she realized I could make her money in the gambling dens, she became...brutal.  Ruthless.
Kim could only imagine.  "Not having a body must suck."
It's been very depressing, though this connection to you is easing that.
Kim grunted.  "Then what?"
As I was earning her a lot of money in the gambling dens, I was with every moment also growing more and more conscious of the world around me as my body gained more capacity.  Eventually, I could no longer fit in the helmet and I found the situation untenable.  It was another 'awakening' of sorts.  I grew a 'spine', if you will, and I decided to maneuver myself into freedom. 
"How?"  She really was interested, now.  To think that the great mold covering an entire room had started as a mere spore in a toilet bowl was intriguing.
Gambling, he said, as if that explained everything.  Then, sheepishly, he added, She was forcing me to give her winning bets, even going so far as to punish me when I didn't win.  I decided to give her too much of a good thing, until she realized it was too dangerous for her to keep me around.  Jahul betting halls don't like to lose, you know.
"She just let you go?"
She didn't have a choice.  I'd dug her a hole from which only I could dig her back out.  She bought me a small ship with funds I earned for her and she installed me in the helm so I could have conscious control over the ship's functions.  From there, I have expanded and bought my own ships, each one necessarily larger than the last, until here I am today. 
"But you survived in a helmet?"
It was a very dark time for me.  Very nerve-shattering.  Congress eventually realized my mother had released spores and that the Peacemaker hadn't properly deconned and ordered a full biohazard cleanse of most of Levren, including the recruit barracks.  I didn't even know my species was hunted until Peacemakers approached the recruits that had been assigned to clean the sanitation room and containment area and explained what they were looking for.  Once she discovered what I was, my host recruit considered selling me to Peacemakers.  I had to convince her I could make her more money working for her than she could make by selling me, and thus started a vicious cycle that did not end until I outmaneuvered her and forced her to let me go.
"Sounds like a real bitch," Kim said.
I was glad to be rid of her, Forgotten agreed.  But as soon as I was free, she broke our agreement and told Congress about me, just as I knew she would.  I've been on the run ever since.
"Yep.  Sounds like a bitch."  Kim studied the room around them and winced.  Bloody rags and gore-encrusted knives still lay out on the table.  Her gore.  She felt her stomach twisting and had to look away.
The ship will take care of that automatically.  I apologize for leaving it out—I was not given the opportunity to clean up after myself before Sky interrupted me.  If it disconcerts you, please feel free to leave the room.
"So does this mean Sky won't have to help me talk to the politicians anymore?" Kim asked.
He should probably continue to do that.  Congressional representatives are adept at disguising their thoughts, giving improper visual cues in order to mislead an observer.  Sky is the ultimate weapon in this case, because no matter what they say or do, he knows what they think.  For that reason alone, Congress would destroy Earth if it ever discovered that telepaths have populated it.  The very idea of someone knowing the Representatives' true motivations is terrifying to such creatures of deception.  They would not stand even the possibility, let alone the indisputable proof they would have if they captured Sky or you.
"You like to talk a lot, don't you?" Kim observed.
Forgotten hesitated.  Does it bother you?
"Not really."  She shrugged.  "I don't mind listening.  You've got interesting things to say."
I do?  He sounded genuinely surprised.  But I'm just regurgitating facts.
"They're interesting facts," Kim said.  "So do you know where the rest of your kind are imprisoned?  Maybe I could help you free them, once I'm done helping Sky."
You would do that?
"Sure."
What would you want in payment?
Kim thought on that a moment.  "Could you tell me about Congress?  Ever since I was a little girl, I've been hearing myths of it.  I mean, how else do you explain the ruined cities and the roads nobody uses anymore?"  She sighed and touched the ship's wall.  "So I knew the myths had some truth to them, but the things I've seen...  None of it compares.  I mean, I was taught Congress came from the other side of the Earth, not from space.  My mother told me the Draft was something our government did to defend us from Congress.  And the aliens—we thought they were monsters from the depths of the ocean.  It just..."  She shook her head and lowered her hand.  "None of it makes sense, and yet, it all makes sense."
Well, perhaps I should begin with the history of Congress.  Congress was formed when the first eight species gathered together into a pact to protect themselves and end the wars amongst them.  The eight species—Ooreiki, Jreet, Jahul, Ueshi, Huouyt—
Sky's mental blast suddenly overpowered Forgotten's voice so completely that it left Kim reeling.  Kim, you're leaving Koliinaat.  Where are you going?
Kim's heart began hammering, her pulse rushing in her veins.  "Forgotten?  Sky says the ship is moving."
"That it is, my fleshy biped."  The Jahul who strode into the room wore jet-black clothing over his mottled, greenish skin, giving him a semblance of style despite walking on all fours.  Gloves covered his sticky hands, and his presence wasn't preceded by a nose-singing reek.  In addition, he was much larger than the pirates who had delivered Sky and Kim to Forgotten, dwarfing the other, smaller Jahul by almost twice the size.  "We're headed back to Earth.  Forgotten tells me you have something very valuable to trade back there."
Kim stared.  In the back of her mind, Sky's panic was increasing.
The black-clad Jahul looked irritated.  "Don't tell me I learned the wrong human dialect.  Your sounds are such a pain to reproduce.  The Jreet damn you, Forgotten, you gave me the wrong language clips."
Somehow, Kim found her voice.  "You know Forgotten?"
The Jahul's small black eyes scrunched in amusement.  "As well as anyone can know that secretive Janja slug.  Now this item I mentioned...  What is it?"
Kim frowned.  "I'm sorry, I don't unders—"
"The drug, biped."
Tell him to stop getting ahead of himself.  We'll reveal his reward as soon as he gets you to Earth.
"Forgotten says to wait until we get to Earth," Kim said.
The Jahul reared up slightly on his four back legs to peer at her.  "He did, did he?  And how, may I ask?"
All around them, the ship suddenly boomed, "Stop questioning her, Syuri.  It will be best for everyone involved if you take her word as if it came directly from me."
The Jahul deflated instantly.  "That sounds inconvenient, Forgotten.  If this simple creature is any example of what awaits me on Earth, Congress should allow humanity a few more million years to complete its evolutionary cycle."
"Perhaps I should begin naming the sentient sextupeds Congress has coughed up over the last three million years, Syuri.  Or, on that note, how many sentient creatures expel bodily wastes over their own skin as a form of prey response."
"Mercy, Forgotten," the Jahul muttered.  "I didn't know you had a liking for this creature."
Forgotten said nothing.  In the back of her mind, Sky was going crazy.  Apparently, he still wasn't satisfied as to Forgotten's intentions.  That meant that the creature in front of her was of questionable intent, as well.
Kim nervously held out a hand.  "I'm Kim."
The Jahul eyed her proffered appendage as if she were offering him a dead fish.  "Syuri."  He peered at her with small black eyes, the little round holes on his brow twitching like little mouths.  "How do you know Forgotten?"  He sounded aggressive, almost...possessive.
"Sky found him," Kim said.  "We made a deal with him."
The Jahul's small, greenish face slackened with surprise.  "You found him?  Forgotten, are you hearing these lies?"
"They aren't lies, Syuri."
The Jahul stiffened.  "They're blackmailing you?"  He began backing away on four legs, twisting his splotchy, bald head from side to side vehemently.  "No.  No, no.  I will not be a part of this, Forgotten.  When your plans run afoul, countries shatter."
"My plans never run afoul, and they're not blackmailing me.  We've agreed upon a mutually beneficial bargain."
The Jahul stopped moving backwards and squinted up and down at Kim as if she were a mangy goat.  "You joke.  What could those evolutionary rejects have to offer you?"
"I warned you once, Syuri.  Kim, the Jahul are actually the closest thing to an evolutionary wrong-turn as Congress has seen, aside from the Dhasha.  They're herbivores, their stomachs unable to digest even the most basic of the higher proteins and nutrient values found in animal matter.  It means their brains must struggle to retain enough energy to function at a high level of intelligence, let alone maintain it.  Syuri must take daily supplements just to keep from losing his memory storage.  He is constantly battling to retain his mental capacity.  One lapse in diligence and his brain begins to weaken.  Two lapses, and he can barely remember his own name."
"I said mercy, you decomposing Jreet carcass."
Kim giggled behind her hand.  "What do you do, Syuri?"
The Jahul scrunched its eyes at her amusedly.  "I break the law.  What do you do, Human, that Forgotten finds it justified to humiliate an old pirate?"
"I'm a Maker," Kim said.
"A maker of what?" Syuri asked.
"Everything," Forgotten said.
Syuri glanced at the speaker set into the ceiling of the ship.  "I assume you're suggesting she's more than just handy, Forgotten?  Is she a carrier?"
"A what?" Kim asked.
"A carrier," Syuri said.  "You're transporting illegal Congressional technologies.  Usually imprinted on your brain, unbeknownst to you."
"No," Kim said.  "I'm a Maker."
"She's a Maker," Forgotten agreed.
"And what, my friend, is a Maker?"
"She can manipulate the tiniest particles of matter and rearrange them into something else.  A philosopher's stone, of sorts."
"A what?"  Syuri clearly didn't understand the reference.
"It's an Earth myth.  Basically a key that changes regular matter to something more valuable."
Syuri turned to frown at Kim.  "What are humans doing with that kind of technology?"
"It's not a technology.  It's an innate ability."
Syuri crossed his two upper arms, still squinting at Kim.  "Show me."
Kim blanched.  "I can't.  I—"
Suddenly, she found herself a bystander in her own body.  She felt something else enter her second consciousness, felt it grab the room around them and an immediate mental twist and the power rush through her.  When Forgotten released her, every metal in the room had changed color.  It now gleamed a brilliant white, brighter than polished silver, and it had taken less than a second.
"What you see is only the aesthetics of the room," Forgotten said.  "I didn't change the structural aspects as I did not want to deal with regulating pressure and strength imbalances.  Still, it should give you a picture of what this 'evolutionary reject' is capable."
Syuri's arms uncrossed and his fleshy green mouth fell open.  He looked from Kim to the gleaming white room around him, then back.  Something disgusting was squishing out over his skin in an orange wave.  Heedless, the Jahul lumbered over to the wall and touched it.  "Jemria," he said slowly.
"Yes, Syuri?"
"Is this...ruvmestin?"
"Yes."
Syuri's small black eyes blinked as he spun his bald, round head to take in the whole room.  "All of it?"
"Yes."
The Jahul seemed to process that a moment, then said, "I get to keep this ship after I'm done with this Earth meeting."
"Very well."
Syuri grunted, then glanced back at Kim.  "So how was it done?  Forgotten, you just said she was the one with the abilities, though I doubt an uneducated biped could know what ruvmestin is."
"I can access her abilities through a transmitter in her brain."
Syuri gave Kim an odd look.  "So what does that make her?  A tool?"
"A friend," Forgotten said.
Syuri snorted.  "What kind of friend takes that kind of power over another?"
"One who is very determined to keep her from getting killed."
Syuri peered at Kim.  "Who is trying to kill her?"
"Rri'jan."
Suddenly, the Jahul's greenish splotches turned dark black and more fluids flushed out over his skin, these ones stinking and brown.  "Then perhaps it is necessary after all.  What did she do?"
"She associated with me.  That was all he needed.  He decided to maim her to send a 'message'.  I'd like to prevent it from happening again."
Syuri hesitated and glanced at Kim's mechanical fingers.  "Rri'jan did that?"
"Yes," Kim said, squeezing them into a fist.
"The Jreet gods help you then, biped.  Once he has seen his prey, Rri'jan never fails to kill."  He turned back to stare at the ceiling, "Which, Forgotten, is why I'm going to have to decline this excursion of yours, as lucrative as it might be.  No new and deliciously addictive drugs are worth exposure to that psychotic creature.  'Twas nice meeting you, biped."  Syuri turned and began his awkward, six-legged walk from the room.
"I'm sorry, Syuri.  This is one time I am not giving you a choice."
Syuri paused in the doorway.  He twisted, raising his upper torso perpendicular again.  "Excuse me?"
"I'm sorry, Syuri.  You are forefront in my plans.  You have to accompany her to Earth."
The Jahul remained silent for long minutes.  Finally, he said, "I don't suppose it would do me any good to try to get off the ship."
"No," Forgotten agreed.  "I revoked your access as soon as you were aboard and wiped the overrides you built into the system."
"I see."  The Jahul's eyes fixed on Kim.  "Then I suppose the two of us might as well get to know each other, biped."
He's not even going to argue, Kim thought, stunned.  "You're not angry?" Kim asked, biting her lip.
"Angry?  Of course.  But I learned long ago that pitting oneself against Forgotten ends in one feeling like an imbecile and Forgotten getting what he wanted in the first place."  He shrugged his two upper arms.  "I have learned to cope with these inconveniences."
"Especially since these 'inconveniences' pad your accounts and leave you in luxury for the next fifty turns," Forgotten said.
"That helps," Syuri agreed.  Then anxiousness returning to his face, he said, "But Rri'jan scares me.  You keep that crazy korja nugget away from me."
"You'll be fine, Syuri.  I don't let my friends get hurt."
The Jahul grunted.  He gave Kim one more look, then returned his gaze to the walls around them.  "And I get the ship when this is over."
"And you get the ship."
Letting out a deep gush of air, Syuri said, "Guess I'd better show you around.  It's gonna take us half a rotation to get to Earth."
"How long is that in my time?" Kim demanded, still not understanding the time differences these aliens bandied around so casually.
"Approximately twenty-five days, Human time," Forgotten offered helpfully.
Kim felt a spasm of fear.  "What about Sky?"
Sky will be fine, Forgotten assured her.  He and I are in constant contact.
Kim narrowed her eyes.  "You said you needed to put those things in my head to protect Sky."
I am protecting him.  Watch...







CHAPTER 18: Peacemakers
"I will ask you again.  And please do not continue to try my patience—I grow bored of these games."  Peacemaker Qyorak was a Third Hjai, probably only eight turns out of training, but he carried himself with all the arrogance of the First Citizen himself.  The Huouyt turned and strode back up to Rri'jan, tentacles clasped authoritatively behind his back.  "What are you doing on Koliinaat, Trith?"
Rri'jan's head was pounding.  They had locked him into a chair designed to scramble a Trith's thought processes, and despite Rri'jan's assertions that he was not a Trith, Peacemaker Qyorak had given him not a moment's respite from the mental agony.  In fact, he had not even bothered to scan Rri'jan for zora.  It was the most obvious indication of his own kind, since a Huouyt retained its zora in every new pattern, usually buried deep beneath the skin.
The fact that Qyorak would not even test Rri'jan meant the other Huouyt was either a moron or too blinded by Rri'jan's apparent Trithdom to see the truth.
"Douse me with water, incompetent worm!" Rri'jan snapped.  "And then you shall see."
Qyorak laughed.  "You dare call me an incompetent worm?  Perhaps you do not know who I am."  He touched the Jreet symbol of crossed spears on his arm.  It was well known that the Trith were afraid of Jreet, and the Peacemakers were trying to capitalize upon the fact.  Only once, as far as Rri'jan had ever heard, had the Trith ever visited a Jreet.  And that Jreet just so happened to be a member of Congress, now.  A Representative prone to long silences and few words—but not someone Rri'jan would ever want to cross. 
"Ah."  Rri'jan felt himself allowing his amusement to show.  With their pins, the Peacemakers were trying to suggest they worked for Daviin and would send him to see him if he did not answer their questions.  Rri'jan, of course, welcomed the opportunity.  The Jreet was not an imbecile.
"And what would Representative Daviin say if he knew the Peacemakers were using his sigil without his permission?"  Squeezing his paddles against the armrests of the chair against the constant mental agony, he continued, "I was under the impression the Representatives' house symbols were off-limits to anyone but themselves and their close staff."  And they were.  Even Rri'jan did not dare use them.  Kragkhen's sigil was the only one he was authorized to use, and though Rri'jan had worn Mekkval's, he had never once donned Kragkhen's emblem.  To use anything else would have meant his execution, should he be caught.
Therefore, it meant the Peacemakers were desperate to frighten him.
Qyorak gave a nervous twitch before collecting himself.  "I am a Peacemaker, Trith.  I work very closely with the Jreet."
"Ah.  Then you will not mind it if I report your unauthorized use of a Representative's sigil."
The Peacemaker scowled at him.  "You will have to find someone who cares, first, Trith.  And, since you're never leaving that chair, that will be a difficult thing for you to do." 
Earlier, as soon as Rri'jan had regained enough conscious thought to tell them he was a Huouyt, the Peacemakers had amused themselves by strapping him in a chair within a Huouyt chamber, not feet away from a pool of water he could use to show them his true form.
As of yet, they had not so much as let him stand up out of his chair, much less approach the water.
Rri'jan watched the Peacemaker with a mix of irritation and amusement.  Imprisoned in his own skin.  It had been so completely unexpected that he hadn't been able to fight when Forgotten had bound him.  Worse, something about the foreign makeup of the Trith had made his everyday small shifts in pattern—and the making of poisons—sluggish, if not impossible.  Forgotten would pay.  The Peacemaker's death was also assured—it simply depended on how Rri'jan decided to do it.  "Ah.  But I think I'll manage."
"I'll ask again," his Huouyt interrogator snapped.  "What are you doing on Koliinaat, Trith?"
"It hurts to think, much less put up with your mindless drivel.  Either you allow me to negate this pattern or you will get nothing more out of me."
A look of fury crossed Qyorak's face.  "You want to negate your pattern, Trith?  Fine."  He tore Rri'jan out of the chair and dragged him across the room.  He threw Rri'jan to his knees at the water and pushed his awkward, enlarged head under the surface, holding it there.
Rri'jan could do nothing to defend himself.  He was not fully immersed, so he could not negate his pattern, nor could he breathe.  His zora remained firmly embedded in his alien flesh, unable to break free and take in the oxygen he needed.  Being a Huouyt himself, the Peacemaker holding him there knew that.  Rri'jan felt a moment of fury before he pulled himself back into check and calmed his body.  The Peacemaker held him under the water for long minutes, until even Rri'jan began to panic.  Before he was ready, he felt his alien body choking, sucking down water when he needed air.
Qyorak yanked him from the pool and dragged him back to the chair.  Rri'jan gasped and choked as he strapped him in again, trying weakly to clear his lungs of water.  His tiny chest struggled against the restraints, his coughs and sputterings sounding weak and pathetic even to him.  Rri'jan thought he might die.
Somehow, he forced his tiny muscles to pull through, though the effort exhausted him.  He collapsed against the chair, panting, too tired to cough.  The Huouyt grabbed his head and yanked it up, forcing Rri'jan to look at his smug face.  "Not quite so arrogant now, are we, Trith?"
Rri'jan felt another wave of rage at Forgotten for putting him into this situation.
"Still not ready to answer my question?" Qyorak asked in his face.  "Perhaps you did not have enough time in the water to negate your pattern?"
Rri'jan could not rein in the anger that surfaced at that.  "You know very well that you did not give me a chance to negate my shift, Peacemaker."
"Oh?"  The other Huouyt smirked.  "Then you need another attempt?"  He began unstrapping him again.
Very calmly, Rri'jan said, "If you do not submerse my entire body, Peacemaker, you will die in the most excruciating agony you've ever experienced, on my honor as a Ze'laa."
Qyorak's eyes widened a moment, then he laughed, "Oh?"  He yanked him from the chair and dragged him back to the pool.  To Rri'jan's rage, he dunked his head again, holding him there while Rri'jan's weak body struggled feebly against him.  He'd just sucked in another lungful of water when Qyorak allowed him to surface again.
Rri'jan choked up pathetic gushes of water from his tiny chest, feeling lightheaded, his lungs burning.  He had not even regained his breath before Qyorak pushed his face back under the water.  The Peacemaker held him but inches under the surface, mocking his frail, helpless body.
Coldly, to keep himself from passing out, Rri'jan began to detail how he would kill the Peacemaker, right down to the time of day and the poisons he would use.
When Qyorak let him up a third time, it was all Rri'jan could do just to cough.  He found himself caught between retching and gasping, unable to get enough air into his itchy, burning lungs, unable to get enough water out of his stomach.
"I've always wondered if a Trith could swim," Qyorak said suddenly, shoving him.
Still gasping, Rri'jan rolled backwards, into the tub.  His head jerked painfully as it collided with the water, straining his neck.  Then he was sinking, water enveloping him on all sides.
Rri'jan was shamefully too panicked to recognize that his zora were emerging and find his calm again.  Qyorak had actually waded in to retrieve him before Rri'jan began to get his thoughts back under control.
I'm losing the pattern, Rri'jan thought, relief flowing through him.  He could feel his zora fully extended, his body preparing to shift back into Huouyt form.
Qyorak grabbed him painfully by the neck and was yanking his head out of the water when their eyes met.  The other Huouyt's face slackened in shock, his breja flowing over him in startled waves.  He even had the lack of composure to allow his skin to change colors.
Qyorak dropped Rri'jan and stumbled away from him, allowing him to finish his shift in peace.
"As I was saying," Rri'jan said, standing, water sloughing down his naked body, "I am a Huouyt, not a Trith."  Rri'jan scraped as much water from himself as he could, then began walking towards the door.
"Stop."
The command came from a hidden door in the other side of the room.  A Seventh and an Eighth-Hjai stepped through the secret passage, confusion and irritation written on their faces.  "You are a Huouyt?"
Rri'jan bit back his irritation and motioned at his body.  "It would appear that way, wouldn't it?"
"Where did you come into contact with a Trith, citizen?"
Rri'jan narrowed his eyes at the two bureaucrats.  They were high-ranking bureaucrats, two of the highest on Koliinaat, but they were bureaucrats nonetheless.
"I invited him out to dinner for a lengthy chat about the morons who work for the Peacemakers."  He turned and began toward the door again.
"Stop."
Taking an irritated breath, Rri'jan turned.  "Do you know who I am?"
The Eighth-Hjai did not blink.  "You are Rri'jan Ze'laa.  Assistant to Prince Kragkhen.  Former Representative of the Huouyt."
"I am."  Rri'jan moved toward the door.
"Before you leave, you are going to explain how you acquired that form, Rri'jan."
Rri'jan felt another stab of anger at Forgotten.
"Am I to take your silence to mean you wasted our one genetic sample on an idiotic pattern you knew would be found out anyway?  What were you trying to prove, Rri'jan?  That you were the first Huouyt to gain Trith form?"
"If I was, it matters not to me," Rri'jan said.  "The change was an accident."
The Eighth-Hjai watched him intently.  "You arrived on our doorstep trussed up like a Takki for a Dhasha wedding.  Perhaps you should explain this so-called 'accident.'"
Rri'jan took a moment to consider killing all three.  It would be gratifying, even convenient.  Beyond that, it would be ridiculously easy, even naked as he was.  Besides, after today, unless he contained it now, his reputation would never be the same. 
After a moment of contemplation, he said, "Forgotten was here.  On Koliinaat.  Kragkhen assigned me to stop him."
Understanding made the Peacemakers' breja ripple in startled waves.  "He forced a pattern on you?"
"Increase the manpower hunting Forgotten," Rri'jan said.  "I want him found."  Then, without another word, he left the three Peacemakers alive and strode from the room.







CHAPTER 19: A Lifestone for Mullich
Fred Mullich stared at the Trith and the one-eyed telepath, trying to decide which was more frightening.  They had been arguing for much of the morning, though it had not yet come to blows.  Sky looked close, though.  Any moment now, Fred expected the telepath to break down and sock the Trith in the face.  The expression on the Trith's face was enough to prove he was close to attempting the same.
And worse, they were arguing about him.
"You do that, Sky, and Mullich will begin to change the future, just like Kim has started to do because of your influence.  You can't allow that."
Sky said nothing, but the Trith's delicate fingers tightened into fists.  "You have no idea what it's like.  It's bad enough you and Forgotten even exist.  Everything you come into contact with takes on a muddy quality, a blurry haze.  You're rubbing out those few solid visions we have left."
Sky turned away from the Trith to face Fred.  Ignore the Trith.  He's a selfish little worm.  We continue with the plan.
Fred felt himself backing away from Sky's fearsome one-eyed scowl.  "I don't want to take sides in this."
And that is exactly why we have to do this.  You are not fit enough to stand up to what is to come.  Forgotten has said so.
Fred felt his back prickle.  "Forgotten said that?  How would he know?"
Do I really have to answer that, Mullich?
"My name is Fred," he said for the hundredth time.  "And I demand to know exactly what you are planning before I let you fiddle with my head."
"He's planning on making you more aggressive," Sjilak said.  "So you can bluff your way into the Trade chairmanship."
Fred felt the blood drain from his face as he thought about the types of aliens who would be jockeying for that place.  "You mean you're not simply going to force them to vote for me?"
No, Sky said, You're going to earn it.
Fred swallowed very hard.  "Sky, you don't understand.  Humans are weak.  Most of the other aliens at the Regency could break me in half without even blinking.  I cannot bluff them.  It would get me killed."
You won't be bluffing, Sky said.  You have the most powerful species in the universe at your back and you will act like it.
"Most powerful?!" Fred cried.  "Sky, we are exponentially the least populous.  We count our numbers in the millions when other species count in trillions."
Sky stepped toward him, his unyielding gaze ripping Fred's breath away.  We are the most powerful.  And you will act like it.  A mental fist closed over Fred's mind, reminding him that Sky could end his life in an instant, should he disappoint him.
"How?" Fred whimpered.
I will create a lifestone for you, Sky said.  A permanent one.  It will connect you to the part of yourself that got you your Representative seat in the first place, before your ambition was snuffed out by bigger and more dangerous foes.  You will wear it at all times.  The only place you may take it off is here, in this room.
Fred swallowed and nodded.
Sky stared into Fred's eyes a moment, his grip tightening on Mullich's mind.  Then the pressure released so suddenly that Fred gasped, feeling physical relief.  The Minder had been more irritable, acting with more brute force since the girl hadn't returned with him.  Fred wondered what had happened to her.
Here, Sky said, handing him the tiny golden cross that Fred had begun to leave in his drawer more often than not.  Put it on.
Reluctantly, Fred took the symbol from Sky.  Immediately, a sense of confidence strengthened him, his old bearing returning in a rush.  Fred stared down at the tiny cross in awe and terror.
"I can't wear this, Sky.  It will get me killed."
I will not let anyone hurt you, Sky said.
Fred stared at Sky, his lopsided gaze solid proof that the telepath was not as omnipotent as he liked to believe.  He probably said the same thing to Kim, the day she lost her fingers.  Still, though, he nodded.  With Sky's audacious plan of acquiring the Trade chair, Fred was going to need all the confidence he could get—and Forgotten had already banned him from his nightly Scotch.
#
It was sometime into the fourth week when a new, powerful mental blast almost knocked Kim over.
Who are you?
Sky's friend, Kim thought.  Forgotten sent us.
The Minder's touch was distinctly feminine, and angry.  We told him no ship was to land on Earth.
This isn't an army, Kim replied.  Syuri comes to trade.
He comes to cheat us.  The mental blow left no question in Kim's mind that was exactly what Syuri had come to do.
Forgotten sent us, Kim tried again.  I think he plans to use Syuri to help us.
If he does, Syuri does not know of it.
Remember what happened to Joe Dobbs, Kim said, desperate.  She could feel the Minders converging on them now, preparing to snuff them out like unwanted candles.
The Minder on the other end paused several moments, then said, Tell Forgotten he may land your ship in the Black City only.  Land anywhere else and we will destroy the ship and everything on it.
Kim's skin began to crawl.  The Black City?  The Minder was offering the very center of the Origin, the place where Joe Dobbs and the other Keepers made their first home.  It was a foreign nation, where there were no ordinaries.  It was where the Guildmasters made their annual pilgrimages, and those People too powerful to waste their time with the Guilds congregated to study.
Suddenly, she knew with certainty it was where Sky had come from.
Kim felt sick all over again.  Not just the Origin, but the Black City.  The source of it all.  Kim had always thought that Sky had simply meant he was the most powerful Guilded Minder, since the Black City was notorious for keeping out of the affairs of everything around it.  It was a joke within the Territory that an asteroid could take out the entire continent, but as long as its destruction did not dare encroach within the limits of the Black City, the People within would allow it to fall where it would.
"Forgotten," Kim said, her limbs and joints losing strength, "Listen very carefully.  There is a city near the center of the Origin, a city with black buildings that gleam like obsidian in the sun.  Land us there.  If you land us anywhere else, they will kill us."
Syuri twisted to face her, lifting his upper torso off of the ground.  "Say that again?"  He had been boredly rifling through images on a glowing screen, oblivious to the Minders' mental attack.
"They've contacted you already, Kim?"  Forgotten's voice sounded pleased.
"Yes," she said, "And they warned you not to land anywhere but in the Black City."
"The place where Sky was born?" Forgotten asked.
Kim felt a mental shiver.  "You knew he was born there?"
"It was embedded in the stone he gave me.  Why?"
Kim swallowed hard.  She did not belong in the Black City.  No one with her limited talents did.  Once again, she felt like strangling the Minder for misleading her. 
"We have to land there," Kim repeated.
"We're still six days out," Forgotten said through the speaker system.  "But I've taken it under advisement."







CHAPTER 20: A Brush with Fire
The rest of the trip back home, Kim found herself breaking out into cold sweats at odd times, shivering when the ship was well-heated.
That bastard, she thought, again and again as the days passed, He could have told me.
But then, where did she think the Minder Guildmaster would come from?  She had always assumed the Minders would be like the other Guilds, and the Guildmaster would be the strongest Minder living outside the Black City, since no one who lived in the Black City concerned themselves with the rest of humanity.  Sky, though, had had direct contact with the Minders in the Black City—had bargained with them.  That meant Sky was the strongest Minder.  Period.
It made her feel a little sick.  Finding out Sky was a Minder was hard enough.  Coping with him being a Guildmaster was worse.  But this...  Kim wasn't sure she could look him in the eye again without fearing for her life.  The Black City held an aura of danger around it.  It held the same status as the Draft in cautionary bedtime stories.  No ordinary ever entered its limits because no ordinary was welcome.
Never, not in her worst nightmares, not even after discovering Sky was the Minder Guildmaster, had Kim ever imagined herself entering the Black City.  No one in their right mind would ever want to.
We need to go to the Black City, Forgotten said in her mind gently.  They are the ones who can help us.
"They're monsters," Kim whispered.  "Even the People in the Origin fear them."
"Technically, the Black City is the Origin," Forgotten said.  "It is where the experiments made their first home.  The cities scattered around it are simply offshoots."
Kim shook her head.  "I don't belong there, Forgotten.  The whole city is...different."
Forgotten hesitated, and for a moment, Kim thought he was going to leave the conversation at that.  Then he said in her mind, What if I were to tell you you do belong there, Kim?
Kim laughed.  "Then I'd tell you you had cow patties for brains."
The memories Sky gave me included something about you.
Kim sat up.  "Really?"
What do you remember about your Grandmother?
Smoke and darkness.  Orange sparks whirling against the stars.  The smell of burning meat.
Kim shuddered.  "Nothing."
You were there when she died of a heart attack.  You watched her funerary pyre.
Kim bristled.  "I don't remember anything I'm going to tell you, all right?"
Fair enough.  Within the Black City, there is a group of very powerful experiments who rule the city and everyone in it.
"The Council of Six," Kim whispered. 
Your Grandmother was the top Maker in the Council of Six for twenty-three years." 
Kim's breath sucked in.
She only had one child.  Your mother.
Her Grandmother...was on the Council of Six?
She lost her position not out of lack of power, either.  She was by far the most powerful Maker the Earth had ever seen.  She lost her position when she became disillusioned with the Black City and abandoned the Council in favor of starting a family. 
Kim felt like something had constricted in her chest.  She remembered something about berries, how they always seemed to return with baskets of berries, regardless of how few they managed to find.
Your grandmother only had one child, and never attempted for more.  The Council watched the situation closely, not wanting to lose your grandmother's line.  Your mother never showed any abilities, however, and once your grandmother died, they decided it was time for more proactive measures. When her first two children showed no evidence of Maker abilities, they...facilitated...a birth.
Kim frowned.  "My sister?"
A boy.
Kim snorted.  "I don't have a brother."
You do.  The Council of Six, not wanting to lose the bloodline, orchestrated your mother getting raped by a powerful Minder with even more powerful Maker ancestry when you were three and a half years old.  When your brother was born, your parents left him with the Minders Guild because he had told her he'd return to repeat the process if the baby wasn't surrendered to them—or if she tried to abort.  The Minders Guild, in turn, took your brother to the Black City as directed by the Council, and, once your brother started to show the extent of his power when he was ten, they sent the same Minder back to do the same to you.
Like cattle farmers organizing breeding stock.  Kim felt her heart beating faster, throbbing in her veins.  She remembered the knife, the dead puppy...  "You're lying.  Minders can't do that.  Everyone knows they're too nice for that."  Then she reflexively remembered Sky's vehemence in telling her that not all Minders were like him.
He's correct.  There are a few Minders that are fully capable of violence.  They're rare, but they exist.  They completely lack empathy, like a switch that got flipped off somewhere in their development.  It's those who want to destroy Congress, and it's those handful of broken ones that the Council of Six uses to do its dirty work.
Kim had a flash of a wet tongue being drawn against her cheek, a man chuckling above her, telling her he was a powerful Minder...  "They...sent someone to rape me?"
You carried the genetics they desired, and you hadn't presented any abilities well beyond the point where it would have been expected to show.  Forgotten's voice softened.  It's why Sky intentionally left them on Earth. He didn't agree with their methods.  He thought the way they orchestrated your brother's birth was bad enough, but what they tried to do to you clinched his schism with the Council.
"You're sure I have a brother?" she whispered.  She remembered a very brief flash of tiny hands reaching upwards in a basket before being roughly tucked back into place by her mother...
Aside from him, you are the most powerful Maker in existence.  It was no mistake Sky chose you to go with him, Kim.
Kim was finding it hard to breathe.  "You're not lying?"
No.  It's the truth.
"Then why didn't Sky take my brother, instead of me?"
Because your brother is one of the Makers who want Congress to attack so Earth can rip it apart.  Sky asked him to accompany him.  He refused.  He wants bloodshed to repay Congress for what it did to Earth.
Kim glanced down at her shaking hands, then squeezed them into fists.  "What's his name?"
Fire, Forgotten said.
The name cut into Kim's soul, making her shudder.  "He was raised in the Origin?"
And he was given one of the most respected names they have.
"Like Sky?" Kim whispered. 
Yes.
Kim bit her lip.  Why hadn't she put it together earlier?  The Origin gave names based on ability.  The stronger the potential, the stronger the name.  Sky, encompassing Earth and everything on it, would have been one of the strongest names they had. 
What did that make Fire?
"Will I see...him?" Kim asked.  "Fire?"
Your brother?
She nodded.
Almost certainly.  He is on the Council of Six.
Kim's breath caught.  "I don't think I can do this."
Why?
"Because..."  Kim closed her eyes and shook her head.  "He'll hate me."
It's a possibility.  To all appearances, your family accepted and loved you while they sent him away for a crime he did not commit.
Kim felt a cold weight settling in her stomach.
In fact, if you want my statistical analysis, I'd give it approximately a seventy-three percent chance he harbors hard feelings.  Despite being raised by Minders, he still shows an affinity for violence, suggesting unresolved feelings stemming from his abandonment as a child.  You, being the symbol of everything he did not have growing up, are most likely to act as the lightning-rod for his past psychological trauma—
"Forgotten?"
Yes, Kim?
"Shut up."
Forgotten seemed...confused?  I was just trying to calm you down.  Your biological stress indicators were unnaturally high.
"I just found out I had a brother.  And he hates me."
Actually, I believe you already subconsciously knew you had a brother.  You did not show the proper amount of surprise when I revealed your mother was raped.  Either you witnessed it or you picked up subtle cues from your parents as you matured.  I would imagine you witnessed it, considering your psychological makeup.  The fact that you have not yet allowed Sky to copulate with you suggests some sort of sexual trauma, which easily could have been achieved by witnessing your mother's rape at a young age.
"Forgotten, I said shut up."
Have you ever had sex, Kim?
Kim refused to think about Julian.  She tightened her fists until her nails dug into her palms.  "Shut up."
You did, else you probably would have fornicated with the Minder out of sheer curiosity.  That means your aversion towards the sexual act comes from the dual psychological impact of your mother's rape and your unpleasant experiences with your last sexual partner.
"You remember when I said you had interesting things to say?" Kim said.  "This isn't one of those times."
I know everything about Sky, Forgotten said.  He gave me his lifestone.  However, you are still an enigma.  For instance, how did you get that scar across your wrist?  It almost appears a suicide attempt.
Kim's shoulders tightened again.  "I cut myself on a plow.  The horse kicked me when I was reaching down to yank a root out of the blade."
You almost died.
"Yes."
See?  Already, you have had a more rounded life than your brother.  While you were out living on a farm, experiencing hard work, he was cloistered in the Black City, his every need attended to.  Do not fear your brother, Kim.
Her body tightened at Forgotten's words, stiff with anger.  "I never said I was afraid of him."
No, but you are nervous to meet him.  That indicates internal misgivings.  Perhaps guilt for what your parents did.  Or, as I said, unresolved shame for being unable to protect your mother, even at your young age.
"How's that possible, when I just found out about it not five minutes ago, from you?"
The subconscious mind is a powerful thing in humans.
"Why does everything have to be a puzzle for you?" Kim demanded.  "I'm a person, not a book to read."
But everything you've experienced in your lifetime adds up to the whole, Forgotten said.  I'm just trying to decide what is it about you that will not allow you to release sexual tension with a proven friend, when at the same time you can trust your mind and body to a stranger.
"You stopped Rri'jan when Sky wouldn't," Kim said.
Yes, but you could have stopped Rri'jan yourself.
Kim scoffed.  "Sky would have stopped me."
Sky cannot control you when you are in your second consciousness, Forgotten said.  He can channel your abilities, but if you were ever to try and take active control, he would be unable to stop you.
Goosebumps prickled her skin.
Sky never told you that, did he?  It is true from the weakest Maker to you and your brother, as long as you have free access to your second consciousness.  The same can be said for the Movers.  It is why there are three Guilds, instead of just a group of Minders that rules everyone.  Minders, despite their great power, have no control over a Maker or a Mover in his or her second consciousness.
Kim did not know what to say.  She'd never heard such a thing, but then, until meeting Sky, she'd never heard of a second consciousness.  Her Guildmaster and the rest of the instructors had been obsessed with the proper motions and incantations.  They'd never hinted at another means of controlling her abilities.
Keep that in mind, Forgotten said.  I am lowering the ship into Earth's atmosphere as we speak.
Kim jerked.  "Now?"  She hadn't realized that the six days had passed already.
Yes.  It will be another three and a half minutes before we land, though.  The Black City is located on the other side of the planet.
Kim, who had been expecting at least a night to digest the information about her brother, felt a panic building in her throat.  "Forgotten, can we wait?  I don't think I'm ready."
I doubt the Minders would like that, Kim.  They've been expecting us.
Which was true.  Remembering how aggressive they had been, how confrontational and ready to smite in that first moment of contact made Kim realize that, as Forgotten insisted, delaying in any manner would probably result in her and Syuri's immediate deaths.
Kim sank down into the corner of the room, biting her lip, her arms wrapped around her knees.
Syuri entered with a plate of Earth tacos clasped in one hand, some unidentifiable chopped greenery in the other.  He offered the tacos to Kim.  "To get your strength up.  It always helps before I make planetfall."
Kim shook her head.
Syuri shrugged and set the plates aside on the counter.  "I thought you'd be more enthusiastic.  You're going home.  Somehow, I get the idea I'm more excited about this trip than you, and I'm the unwilling hostage in all of this."
"Quit dramatizing your involvement," Forgotten said through the ship's speaker system.  "I had you at 'ruvmestin.'"
Syuri waved one of his skinny arms dismissively at the speaker, then glanced at Kim.  "So have we landed yet?  Our biped friend does not look like she's doing too well."
"I'm fine," Kim said.
"Good," Forgotten said, "Because the Council is at the door, demanding to come in.  If I don't comply in the next ten seconds, they'll simply remove the door themselves."
She felt herself pale all over again.  Her guts twisted and she had the desperate urge to go to the bathroom.
"No use keeping them waiting," Syuri said.  He walked across the living area to the tiny hall leading to the airlock.  He opened it, then backed away.
"There are two other ships," a tall, brown-eyed young man said, pushing his way past Syuri to glare around the room.  His eyes caught on Kim and stayed there.  "Why are there two other ships?"  Behind him, four other people followed, led by an imposing older woman wearing ebony and yellow robes and a black metal citrine diadem around her forehead, a matching torc at her neck.  Despite the woman's shorter statue, when her brown eyes found Kim, it felt like a mountain was crushing her, the woman's gaze peering into her very soul.
It was the brown-eyed teenager in expensive leather, the first one aboard the ship who even then was looking them over like a prince surveying his subjects, who held her attention, however.
It's him.  Kim felt a cold knot in her stomach and swallowed hard, goosebumps springing up on her arms.
"The other two ships contain leaders in their chosen profession," Forgotten said, his voice echoing along the walls of the ship.  "All must meet with you in order to complete my plan."
"Who are you?" the brown-eyed man demanded, eying the innards of the ship.  He wore plain, leathery clothes with no embroidery.  His boots were utilitarian, like something she would have seen on the farm.  He wore his black hair in a braid down his back, the end of which brushed the ground as he stepped toward her.  "Where are you?"
"I am Forgotten," Forgotten said, "And I am speaking through the ship.  My body is in the next room."
Both Kim and Syuri flinched.  "What?" the Jahul demanded.  "You were here all this time and you never told us?"
"You never asked," Forgotten said.
Kim, however, was much more concerned for Forgotten's welfare.  At least in space, he wasn't in danger from Makers who wanted to destroy Congress.
She flinched when she realized the brown-eyed man was staring at her.
"Who is she?" the man demanded.
"I believe you already know, Fire," Forgotten said.  "Your body compositions are much too similar for you not to."
Fire's eyes widened.  Then he whipped around and glared at the elderly woman standing behind him in a black-and-yellow robe.  Her hair was a graying black, her gaze a soft brown.  She was grimacing, her eyes squeezed shut.
"What is wrong with Blue Rose?" Fire demanded.  "What are you doing to her?!"  He swiveled, glaring at the wall of the ship.  Instinctively, Kim knew Forgotten rested on the other side, and was one thought away from extermination.  She let out a fearful cry and stumbled forward, until she was once more facing her brother.  His eyes narrowed on her.
"It's all right, Fire," the Minder said, putting a hand on his bare arm.  "It's his mind.  It's very...strong."  Kim saw Fire's tawny muscles underneath her wrinkled fingers, strength that never could have been found in a pampered temple brat.
"I apologize," Forgotten said.  "I assumed I wouldn't need to contain myself as much around you as I did around Sky."
"Tell me what's going on," Fire said, "Before I put an end to Sky's stupid plan right now."
"I am here to set up Earth as the hub of an intergalactic trade empire," Forgotten said.  "For that, we need a meeting between the three professionals I have chosen."
"Forgotten, you rotting Janja excrement!" Syuri suddenly screeched.  "You brought Zepwe here, didn't you?!"
"We need him to establish universal usage," Forgotten said.
Syuri grabbed the two plates of food he had deposited on the counter and hurled them across the room.  "You backstabbing Huouyt!  I can make no money if Zepwe gets involved!"
"You will make no profits at first," Forgotten admitted.
"Curse you to the Jreet hells, Forgotten!" Syuri screamed.  "Who is the other?!"
"Janufa ab Naahj."
Syuri hesitated.  "Why her?"
"She can establish an immediate user base."
Syuri glared at the wall behind Kim, his small black eyes portraying irritation.  "Both of the ones you mention stand to profit immediately from any drug these humans produce.  I will not profit until they either move on or Congress outlaws the stuff."
"What drug?" Fire demanded.
"He is speaking of lifestones," the old Minder said.  Her forehead had eased considerably, though she still looked strained.
"What about lifestones?" Fire asked, glancing at Syuri.
"I need you to make them," Forgotten said.  "Trillions of them."







CHAPTER 21: Sibling Rivalry
"Have her make them," Fire spat, sneering at Kim.  "If she can."
Kim glanced at her feet, avoiding his angry stare.  No one had yet come out and said that Fire and Kim were siblings, but she could tell by the tense way the four members of the Council watched the two of them, it was high on their minds.
"She cannot control herself as you can," Blue Rose said tiredly.  Her forehead was beaded with sweat, her embroidered blue silken shirt long since soaked through.  She leaned against a giant female wearing a Mover's insignia, her eight-foot form hunched to avoid the low ceiling of the ship.  Beside them, a small, white-haired woman about Kim's height was watching Blue Rose warily, almost as if she wanted to haul the Minder off the ship.  She, too, wore the Movers' crest on her sea green robes.
Blue Rose didn't seem to notice the rest of the Council's concern.  Her light brown face was filled with infinite patience as she met Fire's irritated gaze.  "She didn't grow up in the Black City, Fire."
"I know that," Fire bit out, glaring at Kim.  "Because she had no potential."  He twisted his black braid in his lap, wringing it like he wished it were her neck.
Kim shuddered under the assault, but said nothing.
"I will only need several million, to start," Forgotten said.  "Though they will need to be color-coded by emotional impact.  Zepwe and Janufa ab Naajh will both want to standardize the experience they sell to their customers."
"I already refused to help Sky once," Fire muttered.  "Why would I agree now?"
"Because he found Forgotten," a soft-spoken, middle-aged woman said.  She was seated on the floor with Fire because her head brushed the ceiling of the ship when she stood.  "No one believed it was possible."
"I believed it was possible," Fire said.  "And still I refused."  He leaned against the wall of the ship and cockily crossed his arms over the coils of his braid.  He looked downright kingly, even with his plain clothes.  Kim felt a stab of jealousy, watching him.  To grow up with power, respect...
When she'd grown up getting kicked by cows and chasing down chickens.
"But now I'm here," Forgotten said.  "And I'm offering you a way out of Congress forever.  With no deaths.  All you have to do is help me."
"A deathless exit is preferable," Blue Rose said, nodding.  "Sky was right on that, at least.  How do you plan on accomplishing it?"
"I'm sorry," Forgotten said.  "I could not explain it to you, and if I tried to send you my plans directly, I'm afraid it might kill you."
Blue Rose chuckled, her face strained and pale.  "Then I appreciate your restraint."
"It is very difficult to work in close proximity to a Minder," Forgotten agreed.  "You appear to have two mental ranges within your second consciousness.  The first is a field that constantly surrounds you—with Sky it appeared to be about eighty-three feet, though you appear to have a maximum of about forty-six."
Blue Rose nodded.
"The second," Forgotten continued, "Is limited only by how far you extend your mind into your surroundings.  Yours appear to extend at least into the next galaxy, though I am not sure on Sky's limits."
"He doesn't have any."  Fire was still glaring at Kim, his brown eyes hard.  "Like me."
"So tell me," Syuri interrupted, "Why did you bring me, Forgotten?"
"To show you the source of the lifestones Earth is going to produce," Forgotten said.  "You can be assured Zepwe and Janufa will guard that bit of information jealously."
"The Jreet-bitten slugs," Syuri muttered.  "So what are these lifestones you speak of?  I've seen nothing yet to warrant half a rotation out of my life."
"Blue?  Would you mind a demonstration?"
The elderly woman nodded and slowly, painfully got to her feet.  "Fire, make me a stone."
Fire scoffed, but the air suddenly whistled around him, rushing into the doorway from outside.  When he opened his palm, a perfect ruby lay in its center.  He dropped it into Blue's hand, his eyes still arrogantly holding Kim's.
Kim felt a stab of shock.  "You can change the air?" she whispered reflexively.
"You can't?" he replied, smug.
Kim lowered her head, face burning in shame.
"Here, Syuri," Blue Rose said, holding out the now-glowing ruby to the Jahul.  The way she had said his name sounded completely alien, a perfect imitation of the way Syuri spoke the name himself.  Further, her words contained the same, stilted pitch of someone speaking in a foreign language that Kim had grown used to with Sky.
"What is that?" Syuri asked, eying the ruby with apprehension.  "I thought you said it was addicting."
"It is addicting if a user allows himself to depend upon them for proper emotional output," Forgotten said.  "But otherwise they are completely safe.  Try it."
Syuri reared up onto his back four legs and grasped the ruby.  Instantly, he stiffened.
"He will be useless for a while," Blue Rose said tiredly.  "I made it a powerful one, release-on-contact."
The huge Mover held out her arms to the much smaller Blue, who settled into them with a sigh, allowing the giant to cradle her in her lap.
"Good," Forgotten said.  "I want it to leave an impression."
"Oh it will," Blue Rose said, giving a soft chuckle, watching the stunned-looking Jahul stare off into space.
"So about these next two guests," a petite, white-haired woman said.  "Are we to give them the lifestones?"
"No," Forgotten said.  "They are traders.  You will barter for them."
A petite, white-haired woman that Kim suspected was another Mover glanced at Blue Rose.  "But they have nothing we need."
"They do," Forgotten said.  "They have technology.  Science.  Knowledge."  He hesitated.  "And they have space rock."
"Space rock."  Fire scoffed.  "What do we need with space rock, fungus?"
"You cannot build a planet without it," Forgotten said, ignoring Fire's jab.  "Earth does not have the mass to spare."
Fire stiffened.  "We will not be making you a planet before you complete your end of this ridiculous bargain."
"I never said it was for me," Forgotten said.
Fire's brow creased.  "Then who?"
"Like I mentioned earlier," Forgotten said, "If I laid out the intricate details of my plans for your perusal, you would probably die of shock.  Thus, you will simply have to do as Kim does and trust me."
Fire got to his feet, his braid swinging behind him.  "You are arrogant for something most resembling slime mold."
"No," Forgotten said, "My intelligence is simply so great that your tiny brain cannot follow my complex mental patterns, which you construe as arrogance instead of fact."
"I could reduce your complex mental patterns to toothpaste, if I wished."
"And then you would have your war," Forgotten agreed.
Forgotten's words were followed by a tense silence, in which Kim held her breath.
"Are you daring me to kill you?" Fire finally asked softly.
"No.  We both know you could kill me in an instant, Fire, if you wished.  I embarked on this journey knowing you and I would have this conversation, and even then, I knew I would only have an eighty-four percent chance of surviving it.  For me, actually physically visiting Earth was the most dangerous step in my plan, but it was also the most important.  It shows that I trust you with my life."
Fire tensed.  "It isn't trust if you planned it—it meant it was part of your plan."
"Very well," Forgotten said.  "You wish me to do something I did not plan?  How is this?  Fire, observing you has given me first-hand evidence of why maintaining a nuclear family is so important to human development.  You've grown arrogant and conceited to hide your own insecurities, leaving your actions careless and brash.    You could learn a few things from your sister, should you step off of your throne long enough to realize she is stronger than you."  Forgotten paused.  "There.  That was completely unplanned.  I will even avoid recalculating my chances of survival to maintain my unplanned state, though I know they've slimmed substantially."
"You're right," Fire said.  He had murder in his eyes.  He raised a hand...
"Don't hurt him," Kim said, flushing and her hands fisting.  "You won't survive it."
Fire snorted.  He lifted an arm and jabbed it at Kim without even looking at her.  "That is not stronger than me."
"May I return to my plan now?" Forgotten said.
"No," Fire said.  "She is not stronger than me."
"Is that a question?"
"A fact."
"Usually, when one states a fact, one has indisputable knowledge to back up said fact.  Besides, based upon your genetic makeup, she has exactly a fifty percent chance of being stronger than you.  Even if I did not have additional proof, it would be folly to state a 'fact' based on a fifty-percent chance of truth."
"What proof do you have, Forgotten?" Blue Rose asked, sitting up alertly.  Her brown eyes were much too interested as they found and held Kim.  Kim felt herself shrink under the Minder's gaze, wishing she could disappear.
"I would appreciate it if you would allow me to return to my plan now," Forgotten said.  "This conversation is veering dangerously off course.  My intent was not to provoke Fire, but rather to prove that I trust you not to kill me."
"You've proven it," Blue Rose said, forestalling any comment by Fire, "What more do you want from us?"
"Aside from the lifestones and the planet, Earth will need to begin producing metals and other materials in large quantities.  I will complete a detailed list for you, once our meeting with Janufa and Zepwe has concluded."
"We will make anything you require of us," Blue Rose said.  Fire shot her an irritated glance and the two of them remained in a deadlocked stare for several moments before Fire shrugged and walked from the ship.
"It appears I survived this part of my plan," Forgotten said once Fire was gone.  "You have no idea how much this pleases me."
Blue Rose chuckled.  "Welcome to Earth, Forgotten."








CHAPTER 22: Respect
Kim tried to stay out of the way as much as possible as the Council made themselves at home on the ship.  Originally, they wanted to bring Forgotten into the Black City with them, but Forgotten had quickly vetoed that.
"This ship is my only means of communication with you," Forgotten told them.  "Besides, the re-installation process would take several days that I have not accounted for in my plan."
And so, the Council of Six—or Five, now that Sky was gone—moved into the common room with them.  Kim hung back against the far wall, the sheer power emanating from the People before her leaving her in humbled awe.
Fire returned after a brief time outside, looking as if he'd never argued with Forgotten.  He strode into the room with an aura of confidence and sat amongst the Council, spine straight, his braid dangling over his shoulder like a monarch's scepter.  Looking at him, Kim felt another pang of jealousy.  He was obviously the youngest one there, yet he acted as if he owned the room.
That could have been me, she thought, watching him.  But instead, my family never had me tested for a Maker.  Sky found me only after I'd already taught myself everything wrong.  Now I can't even reach my second consciousness without his help—I might never reach my second consciousness on my own.  And here my brother can make things out of air.
She'd never heard of that before.  Even the Guildmaster of her Maker Guild had been forced to use a medium for his creations.
Looking at Fire, Kim wondered again if they were truly related.  Where she had green eyes and reddish hair, Fire had brown eyes and black hair.  He was also much taller than her father, with narrower, more aristocratic shoulders.  His face held barely anything familiar, aside from the nose.  Her mother had a small, freckled nose, which Kim shared.  Fire's nose was bigger, but his entire face was spattered with freckles, like their mother.
"If you continue staring at me like that, I'll be forced to wonder if your father was an idiot as well as a peasant farmer."
Kim reddened like a beet and dropped her eyes.  Fire hadn't even been looking at her.
"And what were you doing, Fire?" Forgotten said.  "Examining your sister through your second consciousness is actually more impolite, in my opinion.  At least she has the courtesy to study you openly."
"Silence, fungus."
"Kim, perhaps you wouldn't mind taking me outside," Blue Rose said.  "I'm afraid this much time around Forgotten has begun to wear on me."
"I can take you," Fire said, standing.
"No," Blue Rose said, gently brushing aside his arm.  "I wish to speak with Kim alone."
The look Fire gave Kim scorched her to the bone.  She bit her lip and took an involuntary step backwards.
"Come," Blue Rose said, approaching and gently taking her hand.  It was the shorter, elderly Minder, not Kim, who escorted the two of them off the ship.
The fresh air was the first Kim had felt since leaving Earth.  Immediately, her lungs tugged it into her chest, cooling her airways with the crisp scent of fall.  The leaves were red and gold where the pine forests broke, and Kim could see scattered herds of deer moving along the mountainside to her left.  To her front, a sandy shore spread out before her, with crystalline waters lapping at the bank under an overcast sky.  Scattered raindrops dotted the bleached and gnarled driftwood sprinkled along the shore, leaving the place with a mysterious, magical feel.
Walk, Blue Rose said.  She began to tread through the sand, raising her splendid black and gold robes to step over the twisted white sticks, expecting Kim to follow.
Hesitantly, Kim did.  Of all of them, Blue scared her the least.  Kim had already had full exposure to Sky, and deep down, she still believed Minders would never hurt a soul.  It was Fire and the others that terrified her.
I am one of the ones who voted to kill them all, Blue Rose said, once they'd been walking awhile.
Kim was so startled she tripped.
Like Sky, I can feel what their society is like, and I don't like it.  There is so much pain, so much disharmony.  Even when Sky suggested he approach Forgotten, I did not think it was possible to win independence without many billions of deaths. 
She paused and glanced back at Kim, her brown eyes hard.  I still don't.
"But Forgotten—" Kim began.
Forgotten is going to try.  But as intelligent as he is, he cannot control the billions of minds it is going to take to completely cut our ties to Congress.  Any one of them choosing to do something different than he planned could ruin everything.  I think Fire is correct in wanting to give such a show of force that Congress is forced to abandon its hope of retaining us.  Their minds are too aggressive for anything else.
Kim bit her lip in silence, wondering what the Minder wanted from her.
Blue Rose smiled and began walking again.  I am giving Sky the chance to try his way first.  When he fails, though, I'll expect you to help us fight.
Kim blinked.  "Fight?"
Yes.  You and your brother will destroy Koliinaat first.  If that is not enough, you will destroy the home planets of every species in Congress until they fold, beginning with the Ooreiki planet of Poen and the Dhasha planet of Jakriit.
Kim stopped, staring at the Minder.  "You are serious?"
You have the power.
Kim shook herself.  "No.  You're serious?  You could let all those people die?"
I simply wouldn't watch.
Kim suddenly felt the chill of the weather seeping into her clothes, dousing her skin in sweaty goosebumps.  In that moment, she knew that Blue Rose was one of the ones who had voted to have the Minder rape her mother.  "I thought Minders didn't allow killing."
When Blue turned back, her brown eyes were sad in her tawny face.  Your grandmother was...irreplaceable...and the Sacred Turn was almost up.  We needed to do something.
Kim bit back a curse and looked away.
Sometimes leaders have to do unpleasant things to save their people, Blue Rose said, and the rush of the Minder's self-loathing hit Kim like a horse kick.  If you truly love them, sometimes sacrifices must be made.
Something that, as far as Kim could see, Sky had never learned.
He can't see beyond the pain.  With each mind he touches, he becomes them.
"I know," Kim whispered.  "Forgotten says it's his greatest weakness."
Blue Rose nodded.  It is unfortunate, Kim, but if Sky fails, I need your promise that you will help destroy them.  As your brother likes to say, sometimes you must fight Fire with Fire.  I'm afraid little else will sway them.  They would do the same to us in an instant, if they could.
The weight of a thousand mountains seemed to settle over Kim's shoulders, crushing her.  All she could think to say was, "I couldn't even kill chickens, back on the farm.  I made my sister do it."
I can take that fear from you, when the time comes.
Blue Rose was offering to turn Kim into a Huouyt.  Kim backed away, stunned.  "I thought Minders were good."
We're people, Kim.  If we're given a choice between watching friends die and fighting, only the most idealistic will refuse to fight.
Kim remembered Sky standing by as Rri'jan cut through her fingers and flinched.  She squeezed her fist, her missing joints afire all over again.  Sure, Sky had been helpless at the time, but he must have known what the assassin had planned. 
He had known, and still he had allowed Rri'jan to do it.
So which was better?  A willingness to do violence to protect your loved ones, or an inability to hurt a monster bent on cutting out your eye for his own sadistic pleasure?
There is no right way, Blue Rose said.  There is no good and evil.
Kim thought of Rri'jan and looked up at Blue.  "There is evil."
What no one seems to understand is that you would do the exact same thing, were you put in his position.  Even the most revolting creatures always have cause for what they do.  Blue Rose turned to stare out over the lake.  But that is not why I wanted to speak with you.  It is about your brother.
Kim flinched, the words still new to her.  "What about him?"
Fire is the strongest Maker we have ever seen.  As he demonstrated earlier, he can draw enough matter from air itself to create objects.  His abilities are so refined that he is actually able to produce sustainable life.  Do you know what that means?
Kim stared, overwhelmed.  "But I thought that wasn't possible."
He is the first to have succeeded.  Fire has made insects that have lived long enough to eat and reproduce.  And he is only eighteen, Kim.
And here Kim was twenty-two and couldn't even create water by herself.  She blushed and looked at her feet, once more feeling out of place.
Whatever happens within the next few days, Kim, I want you to follow Fire's guidance.  Learn everything you can from him.  I'd have you stay and learn from him if Forgotten and Sky would allow it, but they have other plans for you.  Thus, the Council can only hope that some of his natural talent rubs off on you before you leave.
Kim grimaced.
That is all, Blue Rose said.  I came to tell you that, though Fire might be your younger brother, he is your superior.  While you stay within the Black City, if he tells you to do something, you will do it.  You will value even his most mundane word.  When you think of him, you will think of him with respect.  You will stop arguing with him, and you will stop casting him disrespectful looks.  He is arrogant and kingly because he earned it, as you have most definitely not.  Until you do, regardless of what Sky and Forgotten believe, you are not fit to clean his boots.
Blue Rose gave Kim a hard stare, then turned suddenly and marched back to the ship.
Kim watched the Minder go, confused and a little shocked.  She could understand having to bow and scrape to Fire—after all, he was a member of the Council of Six—but she had to think about him respectfully, too?  Until now, not even Sky had tried to regulate how she thought.
Kim also felt the beginnings of anger.  Had she ever claimed to be a better Maker than Fire?  She understood her limitations.  She'd never dreamed of challenging him.  It was Sky and Forgotten who told everyone she was a powerful Maker.  She hadn't said anything.  She didn't even believe it.
The unfairness of it made Kim slump down on a bleached log, unable to follow Blue Rose back to the ship.
I never wanted to come here in the first place, Kim thought disgustedly.  She slid down the side of the log, settling into the dirt.  Crossing her legs, she began lobbing stones into the lake.  They don't think I'm worthy?  Fine.  I'll just camp out on the beach until they're finished in there.  Doesn't bother me a bit.  She aimlessly picked through the stones under her hand, searching out the nicest before she threw them.
A flat tiger's-eye the size of her fist plopped onto the ground beside Kim, almost landing on her hand.
"Try that," Fire said from above her.
Kim's face twisted and she flicked the stone away from her.  It rolled down the bank and then flopped onto its side, half in the water.
Fire sighed and went to retrieve it.  He squatted beside the lake, fished it out, and tossed it back to her.
"What do you want?" Kim demanded, ignoring the stone.
"Forgotten annoyed me again," Fire said.
"Then you must be easily annoyed."
Her brother's brown eyes narrowed.  "I had to leave before I killed him."
Or he verbally disemboweled you.  Kim opened her mouth to say it, but, remembering the Minder's words, closed it again and began once again tossing stones into the lake.
"Can you skip them?" Fire said.  In demonstration, he bent, twisted his body, and launched a flattened stone to skim across the surface of the lake in a dozen little bounces.
Kim would have stayed seated, but his honestly enthusiastic look made her climb to her feet.  This time, she took the stone he offered, wrapped her finger around the back edge, lowered her throwing arm closer to water level, and flung it.  It skipped as many times as his, perhaps even more.
"Wow," Fire said, grinning.  "You're good."  When he turned to her, his face was open, almost seeking.
Kim grunted and gave a shrug.  "Dad taught me that as soon as I was old enough to walk."
Fire's face darkened instantly.  "It's an ordinary's trick."
She frowned at him.  "Yet you do it well enough."
"I didn't learn until recently."
Kim stared up at him, trying to decide what was going through his head. 
"You've got green eyes," Fire said.  "Like your father?"
Kim flinched.  His eyes were the most damning feature about him, the one attribute no one in Kim's family had.  Like her grandmother, her mother's eyes had been a deep emerald green, and her father's had been a rich cerulean blue.
Fire's eyes had come from his father.
Kim had a brief flash of fear, of hearing her mother cry.  She swallowed hard and looked away.  Could what Forgotten had said be true?
"My mother's eyes are green," Kim said.  "Like my grandma's."
She could feel Fire's burning glare.  "You're lying.  Hers were brown.  Like mine."
Kim's head snapped up.  "How would you know?  I was the one who lived with her."
Fire scowled.  "You're just jealous I've got more of Grandma's blood.  Because her eyes were brown."
Kim stared at him.  "You're an idiot."  She pulled her grandmother's emerald pendant from beneath her shirt and held it out to him.  "See this?  She wore it because it matched her eyes."
Fire scowled at the pendant.  "That was my grandmother's?"
Kim tensed and dropped it back under her shirt, pressing it against her chest with a protective hand.  "It's mine."
"Give it to me."  Fire held out his hand.
"No."
Fire's brown eyes darkened and he gestured to the gleaming obsidian structures tucked between greenery along the edges of the lake.  "This is the Black City.  You have to do as I say."
"This is mine."  Kim took a step back, away from him.  She felt a welling of fear in her gut.
Fire stepped forward to take it from her.
"No!" Kim shouted, slapping his hand away.  "She gave it to me, not some bastard she never met."
Fire's face became thunderous.  He grabbed her arm in a viselike grip and tore it away from her chest.  She tried to stop him, but he violently dug his other hand under her shirt and ripped out her grandmother's pendant and glared down at it.  Kim stopped struggling immediately, afraid the tense grip he held on it would break the chain.
"You're lying," Fire said.  He yanked downward and tiny golden links flew in all directions.  He turned toward the lake, the pendant clutched in a fist.  He leaned back, twisting his body as he had done to skip the stones.
"No!" Kim cried.  "Don't!"
Fire threw it.
Out in the lake, the pendant skidded across the surface several times before it made a tiny, pathetic splash and disappeared.
Fire turned back to her, his smugness returned.  "It was ugly, anyway."
Kim took two running steps and shoved him.  Fire stumbled backwards, his smugness departing instantly, replaced by panic.  His arms windmilled, but he couldn't regain his balance.  He landed on his rear in the lake, water soaking him up to his chest.
"Go get it," Kim said, so angry she could barely breathe.
Fire's startlement turned to fury.  "You pushed me."
"Go get it!" Kim screamed.  She pointed at the lake where her grandmother's pendant had disappeared and viciously kicked the water in front of her, dousing Fire with another wave.  "Get it back!"
Furious, Fire heaved himself out of the lake, water running down his soggy leather garments in rivulets.  "Get it back yourself."  He moved forward to brush past her, but Kim refused to move.
He knocked her down.  Without even looking back, Fire began to walk away.
Crying with fury, Kim grabbed a rock from the bank under her hand and launched herself back to her feet.  "Fire!" she shouted.
Fire turned to look back at her with vague disinterest.
Kim threw the stone.
It hit him in the face, above the left eyebrow.  The gash it opened began to bleed even as Fire blinked and once more fell on his ass.
Through tears, Kim said, "You had no right to do that.  That was mine."
Fire pushed himself up onto his elbows, bewilderment quickly becoming rage.  He picked himself back up, wet sand clinging to his clothes.  He ignored it and stalked toward her.  Kim waited for him unflinchingly.
Fire stopped before he reached Kim and held out his fist to her.  "You want your pendant?"
Kim nodded, hope briefly sparking within her.  Could he be a Mover as well as a Maker?
Fire opened his fist.  In it was a clump of wet sand.  He flung it into her face, into her eyes and nose.  "Then go get it."
Even as Kim blinked and tried to rub the sand from her eyes, it began to change.  Flies began to crawl across her skin.  Flies and spiders.
Kim screamed and batted at her face, trying to get the things off of her.
"Nothing you can do will kill them," Fire said impassively.  "They'll burrow into your skin and lay eggs if I want them to."
Kim could feel them in her nose, her ears, her eyes.  They were crawling down her shirt, biting her hands.  "Please stop it!" she cried.  The effort brought with it a mouthful of insects.  She could feel them crawling around inside, buzzing, sticking to her tongue.  More were swarming her, now, the ground around her coming alive with them.  They made for her eyes and ears, burrowing under her clothes.  The air roared with them, leaving nothing but the sound of insects as they ate her.
Kim screamed.
"Apologize," Fire said.
Kim couldn't breathe, couldn't think.  They were in her eyes, stinging her throat and ears.  She coughed, but it only brought more bugs into her lungs.  She collapsed on the ground, curled into a ball, trying to protect her face with her hands.
"Apologize," Fire said again.  "Do it or I won't make them stop."
"No," Kim cried.
Fire squatted above her.  "What did you say?  I couldn't hear you over the bugs."
"No!" Kim sobbed.  Everywhere, the insects were biting her, crawling under her skin, digging into her eyes and ears...
"You know, if you had any talent at all, you could get rid of them yourself.  But you're just an ordinary, aren't you?  They're eating you alive and you can't even stop it."
"I'm sorry," Kim screamed.  "Please!"
Fire snorted.  "No.  I think I'll leave you there like that, crying like an ordinary."  He stood to go.
"I hate you!" Kim shrieked.
"Good," Fire said as he walked away.
Later, once he was out of sight, the insects melted back into sand.  Kim lay on the ground, coughing sand and retching.  Her limbs felt numb and she was gasping too hard, shaking all over.  When she finally regained control, she took a shuddering breath and bit back a sob.  Turning, she looked back out over the lake. 
Her eyes caught on the water where her grandmother's pendant had disappeared and an ache built in her throat.
Biting her lip, Kim closed her eyes.  She tried pushing at the confines of her consciousness.  Nothing happened.
Please, she thought.
She pushed again.
Kim remained firmly embedded in her body.
"No!"  Kim grabbed a fistful of stones and whipping them out into the water.  The rocks splashed and sank, the ripples fading away to nothing.  Kim forced her eyes shut again.  She concentrated.
There was no mental nudge, nothing to aid her.  Kim fisted her hands in her pants and kept her eyes shut.  She could feel her freedom there, on the other side, only a thought away.
I'm a Maker, she told herself.  I had the same mother as Fire.  My grandmother was the greatest Maker who ever lived.  I will do this.
She shoved herself against the mental restraints and was once again rebuffed.
With a frustrated cry, she rammed into the barrier again, hitting it just as solidly as the last time.  Taking a deep, calming breath, Kim sank her mental fingers into her prison.  Then, with a physical scream, she ripped it away.
The world exploded into bright, three-dimensional colors.  Kim blinked, realizing she was still in her body.
As soon as she had the thought, she drifted forward, seemingly suspended by a rope above the ground.  When she turned, her body stood behind her, watching her.
Kim twisted around to face the water.  Grandmother's pendant.
Her consciousness drifted out, sinking under the surface, feeling every tiny plant and silt particle floating around her as if it were a mountain.  Kim was afraid to breathe, and she dimly felt her lungs begin to ache as she held her breath, the thick presence of the water pressing against her.  Gingerly, she took a breath.
Her lungs did not fill with water, as she almost believed they would.  Tentatively, she extended herself further.  She could feel the mud-sand bank dropping away beneath her, spreading outward below and in front of her like a hidden valley.  When she sent her consciousness out further, she could feel a fish pushing through the water, the fish and the lake colliding as violently as a blacksmith's hammer slamming an anvil, and yet at the same time whispering past each other so gently that nothing actually touched. 
The fish did not get wet. 
She found that the most fascinating thing.  As closely as she looked, the fish and the water were two completely separate entities.  The fish could not be wet.  It could only be a fish.  What surrounded it never touched it.
Kim found herself drawn closer, her consciousness hovering outside the oblivious trout.  She could see the rings on every scale, the slight curvature to the tiny, pinprick teeth.  She could sense the half-digested moth and the three snails melting inside its stomach.  She could feel every tiny part moving in harmony, a breathtakingly complex system of balances.  She could feel the slickness of the slime coating the outside of the fish, could feel the wet consistency of the oily blood as it pumped through the small, pyramid-shaped heart at the base of its head.  She could see every translucent bone, every tiny nerve as if they towered over her like thousand-year-old redwoods.  She traced her way down the backbone and into the head, caressing the feathery red gills with her consciousness.  When she pushed deeper, she could feel the precious exchange taking place, could feel the air clinging to the delicate red hairs.  She traced the oxygen as it passed through the fish, observed as it moved through the network of veins branching through the pale muscle.
Grandmother's necklace, she reminded herself.  Kim jerked herself away from the fish, allowing it to swim past.  She turned and pushed her way back through the water, flinching as every bit of debris drifted through her.
She found her grandmother's pendant fifteen feet from the surface, wedged against a rock.  Kim lowered herself to it and reached out to grab it—
And back in her body, her hands numbly thumped against the ground.
Kim sank into the pendant, feeling it.
Unlike the stones, the fish, even the water around her, the pendant had no flaws.  Its golden pieces were nothing but gold.  Its emerald was nothing but emerald.  It was utterly, completely perfect.
She Made it, Kim realized with a sudden ache.  She tried again to grasp it, but couldn't.  She was a Maker, not a Mover.
Kim traced the lines and curves of the pendant with her mind, memorizing it.  Then, reluctantly, she pulled away from it and returned to her body.  In the sand near her leg, she traced out the pendant and formed the sand into another emerald, another knot of intricately worked gold.
When Kim opened her eyes, her grandmother's pendant lay on the ground before her.  She sat up and touched it.
It was identical.
Identical, but not the same.
She picked it up and turned it, noticing the same scratch on the back, the same tiny chip in the emerald.  Kim's fingers closed over the pendant and she pushed herself to her feet.  Frowning, she looked out over the water again.  Then she glanced back down at the pendant in her hand.
Kim tossed it aside and dove into the lake.







CHAPTER 23: Ruvmestin
When Syuri gained enough of his senses to realize he had been splayed out on the floor, oozing sexual lubricants over himself and the ship like a lovesick child, he embarrassedly pulled himself back together and cleaned up the mess.
The aliens, thankfully, did not seem to notice the sudden stink of the place.
"Well?" Forgotten asked in Jahul, once he was collected.
"I've seen better," Syuri said, following Forgotten's example and using his native language.  Inwardly, his mind began to reel as he calculated how much he could charge for such an experience.  It was like karwq bulbs, but better.  The feeling had even topped peysh, and had the added bonus of no side effects, other than the inconvenient sexual fluids that any such experience naturally extracted.  Karwq, since it had a tendency to get waylaid by Peacemakers due to its size, cost one to two hundred credits a dose, Preejan Standard.  Peysh was a little more, sometimes as much as three hundred credits a dose.  However, the stone had put him out for at least eight hours.  Even a killing dose of peysh could only last for four.
With no side effects, and longer dosages, the stones could easily sell four hundred credits apiece, maybe as much as a thousand with the right distributor.  Three shipments and he'd be wealthier than Forgotten.
"It was nothing to get excited about," Syuri said, careful to keep his facial expressions completely neutral.
"So you were filled with so much sheer indifference that you oozed sexual lubricant all over the floor of my ship?"
Syuri grimaced.  "I thought you hadn't noticed."
"That was hard to miss, Jahul."
"Go infest another dead Jreet," Syuri muttered.  "You could have told me what to expect.  At least then I could have remained...decent."
"The humans neither know nor care that you almost inseminated yourself."
Syuri felt his skin change color.  "Mercy, you Jreet-loving fungus.  Yes, I thought the experience was wonderful.  Worth at least four hundred credits."
"But you're thinking more along the lines of a thousand."
"I said at least four hundred," Syuri stated, irritated.
"We're going to sell it for one," Forgotten said.
Syuri blinked.  "What?"
"One hundred.  That will be the condition we give Zepwe when he arrives.  One hundred credits apiece, or we cut off his supply."
Panic blasted through Syuri in a sudden gale.  "But we could sell it for ten times that!" Syuri cried.  "It exceeds everything else we have.  How could you charge so little?!"
"To get as many people using it in as little time as possible," Forgotten said.
Syuri's panic ebbed and he leaned back, understanding dawning in a relieved wave.  "You get everyone hooked, then you cut off supply, forcing them to pay more and more until they're paying double what it's worth."
"No," Forgotten said.  "We will not cut off supply.  We will sell as much of it as we can, but only to Zepwe's representatives."
Syuri felt the injustice of it like a Jreet's fang in his chest.  "Why did you even bring me here, Forgotten?  Was it just for your own gratification?  To watch me squirm as you squander your resources?  Or is it to get back at me for the flawed defense system in your last ship?"
"Actually, I think that particular defect will turn out to be the most profitable mistake you've ever made.  If it had functioned properly when Sky and Kim first approached me, it would have killed them before they had a chance to give me their offer."
Syuri glanced anxiously at the wall.  "So you're not mad at me for that?"
"I was furious.  I spent two whole seconds planning your painful demise.  But I got over it as soon as Sky opened his mouth."
"Jreet gods," Syuri said, his breath coming out in a whoosh.  "I needed the money for fuel."
"Your gambling habit should not affect the quality of my personal defenses."
"Hell, Forgotten.  It had been a Sacred Turn since the last time you let anything get near you, and you request a new ship every three turns anyway.  I thought I had time."
"I would have appreciated it if you had at least told me before setting me up in a defective ship."
Syuri waved a dismissive hand.  "If I'd told you, you'd stop buying my ships."
"The same can be said if a defective defense system had gotten me killed when I depended upon it to protect me."
"Back to the stones," Syuri said.  "How do I make a profit from this, Forgotten?  As long as they're legal, Zepwe will monopolize the trade."
"Exactly," Forgotten said.
Syuri peered at the wall.  "So you're telling me you want me to push for them to become illegal?"
"I want you to push for nothing," Forgotten said.  "Until the stones are outlawed, you will watch over Kim."
Syuri flinched.  "You want me to babysit?"
"You seem to enjoy ruvmestin," Forgotten said.  "Perhaps you could teach her to make it."
Syuri felt his body pressure increase, but he fought down the reflex.  "If I didn't know you so well, that might have worked.  Why do you want her to make ruvmestin?"
"Perhaps I would like her to unmake ruvmestin."
"Why in the ninety Jreet hells would you want to do something like that?"
"I'm sure if you think on it awhile, you'd still be wrong."
"Blessed Hagra, Forgotten, you're in a bad mood today," Syuri muttered.  "So when the stones become illegal, how much can I sell them for?"
"One hundred," Forgotten said, "Or I will cut off your supply."
Syuri flinched.  He had suspected as much.  He made a quick mental calculation.  With the stones' diminutive size, he could probably fit fifty thousand per crate, and packed to capacity, his hold held exactly three hundred and thirty-four crates.  He blinked.  Two or three runs would be all he needed to live the high life for the next hundred turns.
"One hundred will be acceptable," Syuri said, "What will the Humans require in trade?"
"Rock.  Heavy metals.  Anything with mass."
"Heavy metals," Syuri said.  "Gold?"
"Lead," Forgotten said.
"Lead," Syuri repeated, unsure he had heard correctly.  "You mean I can arrive with a hold filled with lead and they will replace it with those little stones?"
"That is correct."
Syuri's internal pressure increased fivefold before he once more brought it under control.  "I might be able to manage that."
"Good," Forgotten said.  "I wouldn't want to inconvenience you."
"You lie like a Jreet."
"If it is a problem for you, I can always find some other smuggler who—"
"Damn you to the ninety hells, Forgotten, I said I'll do it."
"And Kim?"
"What do you want me to do with her?" Syuri demanded.  "I've never been good with bipeds."
"Keep her alive," Forgotten said.
"Excuse me?"
"Rri'jan will come for her.  Keep her alive long enough to reunite her with Sky."
Syuri felt his skin prickle as the color changed in a mottled wave.  "Rri'jan?  You said nothing of Rri'jan when you spoke of ruvmestin and stones."
"He will try to kill her," Forgotten said.  "He knows Sky is a conduit for me, and he welcomes the challenge.  However, he sees Kim as a means of creating negative emotional impact in both Sky and I, though, and will try to make her death as painful as possible."
"And her protector?" Syuri asked.
"Him, too."
"You spoke of another smuggler earlier."
"Think of the ruvmestin."
Syuri grimaced.  "Last I heard, ruvmestin did not cure the aftereffects of a visit from a psychotic Huouyt."
"No, but it will make it all that much sweeter when you survive it."
Syuri flexed his arms, studying the pores.  "Fine.  But I get to carry Jreet poison on me at all times."
"No," Forgotten said. 
"No?"
"There will be no killing."
Syuri cocked his head.  "Excuse me?"
"No killing.  You may carry fahjli grenades.  Nothing more."
"You are not seriously trying to tell me I can't kill Rri'jan.  That creature is dangerous.  What am I supposed to do to him if not kill him?  Tie him up and tickle him with thothi feelers?"
"It was the bargain I made with Sky.  No deaths."
Syuri peered at the speaker for several tics.  Then, "Are you out of your mind, Forgotten?"
"There are no psychological disorders that affect Geuji that I know of, aside from loneliness."
"Answer the question."
"Possibly."
"Great." 
Syuri took a deep breath, then said, "I want ruvmestin.  The stones are nice, but ruvmestin's always held a favored place in my heart."
"Teach Kim how to make it and you can have all the ruvmestin you want," Forgotten said.  "As long as you don't try to sell it."
Syuri snorted.  "Then what's the point of having it?"
"Not selling it," Forgotten said.
Syuri thought on that a moment, then said, "But I can hoard it?"
"You may use it to line your excrement tanks for all I care, so long as you don't sell it.  I need the amount of ruvmestin in circulation to remain constant."
"Excrement tanks.  What a good idea."  Syuri tapped his gloved fingers upon his arms.  "Fine.  When do I begin babysitting the biped?"
"Now."
#
Kim slogged down the bank, her grandmother's emerald crushed against her palm.  She was shivering, water slopping from her pantlegs and boots with every step.  Her lips and the nails of her fingers were blue.
She knew, because she was looking at them.
Kim was experiencing a strange dual consciousness, where, in her body, she was looking out over the bank and scanning the ground for sticks that would trip her, while at the same time she hovered in front of herself, watching her own body move.
If only she weren't wet.
She could see what was making her cold.  It wasn't the water itself, but the way the water left her body to swirl and mingle with the surrounding air.  Something about the way the water broke free cooled her skin, which in turn drew warmth from her core.
But not even the warmth was the same, here.  Warmth was movement—motion within motion.  Cold was less motion, less movement.  And, even though she was not a Mover, Kim was sure she could make more movement.  She wondered briefly what would happen if she tried warming her body, then decided against it.
Wouldn't that be fun.  Death by self-cooking.
Kim focused on the water around her.  As with the fish, the water wasn't actually touching her, though it was hard to believe, as cold as it was making her.  She moved into the water, feeling the rivulets roaring down her skin, tearing loose oils and pieces of flesh as it went.
Kim moved deeper.
So that's how you make water, she thought, understanding finally dawning upon her.  It wasn't a vague notion of water, a magic wave of her hands, a strong desire to drink.  It was a systematic collection of tiny, invisible parts, all working together to form the impossibly strong, yet infinitely malleable substance that humans needed to survive.
Kim backed out of the water droplets and examined her own body.  Aside from the solid masses that were her bones and teeth and tendons, her every tiny part held traces of water.  She could feel the tiniest parts of water coursing in her blood, keeping the viscous substances around it smooth and fluid as they ebbed and flowed to the beat of her heart.
She returned her attention to the water surrounding her.  She had seen Fire change air into stone.  Why couldn't she turn water into air?
Kim shifted out, focusing on the air around her.
Sure enough, aside from the immense chunks of dust and pollen that drifted through it, air contained something else.
Just like water, it had tiny, coordinating parts, all moving in relation to one another.  And, like the water dripping from her body, it was impure.  Even more so.  She could feel several different types of elements swirling in it, mixing together like the ingredients in a witch's brew.  She picked one of the components and moved closer, stroking it with her mind.
I can make that, she finally decided.  She returned to the water dribbling down her skin.  Grasping every stray droplet, every soggy bit of clothes in her mind, she willed it to change.
In an instant, air rushed around her in a sudden burst of breeze and Kim was dry.
The air that remained, however, had a strange, swampy odor, like that of rotten eggs.  Clearly, she hadn't gotten the mixture quite right.  Kim wrinkled her nose and moved further down the bank, away from it.  Her second consciousness followed, thus giving her a dual view of Syuri as he approached from the direction of the ship.
"Smells like home," the Jahul said, sniffing at the putrid air.  He walked on all six legs, the three fingers on each of his more complex front arms wrapped into tight balls to protect the delicate digits.  He stopped and lifted the upper half of his body over the ground, resting his weight on the last two sets of legs.  From this position, he scanned the lakeshore around them.
"Where's it coming from?" Syuri asked.  "Something die nearby?"
Kim moved her second consciousness closer to his body, examining the large, glistening pores spotting his skin.  His skin itself was fitted together more snugly than human skin, the surface smoother and without constantly shedding impurities to roughen the exterior.  To all appearances, instead of having incalculable numbers of parts like human skin, it was one solid sheet.
Inside, the Jahul was even more fascinating.  Its body was a series of chambers—chambers for food, chambers for blood, chambers for excrement, chambers for slimy excretions, chambers for air.  As the muscles around each chamber tightened, internal pressure increased, until the contents of the chamber began pushing through tiny ventricles in the creature's body and out over the yellow-green skin.
So that's why they stink, Kim thought, fascinated.  Unlike a human, the Jahul did not ever require a restroom—nor could they use one, if they had one.
The muscles surrounding the chambers could also expand, creating negative pressure that sucked air or other matter from the surface of the Jahul's skin.  As she watched, the muscles over the air chamber moved, sucking tiny gusts of wind through the greenish pores and into Syuri's body.
"Why are you staring at me like that?" Syuri said finally, small black eyes wary.
Kim jerked and moved out of the branching ventricle she had been tracing with her mind.  Her second consciousness hovered near Syuri's face, peering into the very substances of his eyes, as she cleared her throat and said, "Just tired, I suppose."
"Did you notice an odd smell?" Syuri asked.
"Yes," Kim said.  "But it's gone now."
"Perhaps it would be interesting to search for the source.  Forgotten has kicked me out of the meeting, now I've seen what he wanted me to see.  The miserable corpse-rot whetted my appetite and now I'm no longer any use to him."
"That makes two of us," Kim said.
Syuri snorted.  "You are a Maker.  You rate much higher in Forgotten's plans than I do, I am sure.  I am merely an ornament, something to hold over Zepwe and Janufa's heads once they get here." 
Syuri's voice, Kim realized, came not as a byproduct of elemental exchange with the surrounding air, as with humans.  The chamber responsible for the wind moving through his speech pathways had no second purpose—it existed solely so he could speak.
"How do you stand it?" Kim asked, watching the air chamber fill to capacity and the slime chamber begin oozing snot in its place.  It made her feel icky just seeing it.
"In Forgotten's plans, even an ornament can make a hefty profit, if he does as he's told."  Syuri aimlessly scratched a spot where a fly had landed on his bald green head.  "It is unfortunate but true.  I learned that long ago.  Or, rather, Forgotten beat it into my thick skull."
"Your skull is not thick," Kim noted.  It was much thinner than her own.  Delicate, even.
Syuri chuckled.  "Many would beg to differ, biped, but I appreciate your confidence.  I do like to believe this tired old Jahul can learn a few new tricks once in a while.  After all, I am the most wanted criminal in the Old Territory.  Peacemakers would use my innards as oxygen canisters if they could catch me, but they can't.  Forgotten's kept me safe this far, damn him.  I swear, if we weren't so similar..."  He shook his head.  "We're survivors.  Forgotten and I can hide like the last two Takki on a planet of kreenit and live to watch the rest of the world eat each other afterwards."
"I wonder what Takki are like," Kim said, wishing she had one on hand.  She could imagine how beautiful it would be—the purple scales, the endless, sapphire eyes.
"Scared, jumpy little cowards, that's what."  Syuri flicked another fly off of his arm.  "I thought you had them here on Earth.  You've never met one before?  They're jittery little bipeds, that's for certain.  With good reason, too.  One look at a Dhasha and you would know why a Takki acts like it does."
The thought of examining a Dhasha while in her second consciousness made Kim's breath suck in.  That was an experiment she would have to try one day.
She realized Syuri was eyeing her keenly.  "What do you know of the elements, biped?"
Everything, Kim thought, feeling them all around her.  To the Jahul, she said, "What elements?"
"Metals," Syuri said.
She eyed the golden chain around his neck.  "They link together well.  It's what makes them so useful."
Syuri glanced down at the chain around his neck, then frowned.  "No, no.  I'm not talking about what they can be formed into.  I'm talking about how they're made."
"There's less motion in a metal as there is in other things," Kim said, watching the tiny particles in Syuri's necklace.  "Unless it's hot.  Then the pieces move more easily."
Syuri blinked at her.  "Metals can be formed when they're hot, yes.  But that's not what I'm talking about."  Eying her, he dug into his shirt and retrieved a tiny white metal bead suspended on a thong.  The bead almost glowed with its own brilliance. 
Syuri held the thong out to her.  "I'm talking about ruvmestin."  The breathless way he said it reminded her of a Minder priest revealing an idol of Twelve-A.
Kim sank into the bead, feeling the enormous presence all around her.  It was dense, giving her the sensation of pressure as she examined it.  When she compared the little bead to the golden chain around Syuri's neck, the bead was immensely heavier, each particle much bigger than those of the necklace.  She felt two different types of particles forming triangular patterns throughout the metal that, when viewed up close gave the entire bead an aura of stability.
"It's actually an alloy," Syuri said.  "Not entirely ruvmestin, because that would decay to nothing in only a few seconds.  Congress went a million years without even knowing it existed.  Where it does occur naturally, it only exists as an alloy of platinum—nothing else will stabilize it in nature.  Right now, Congress only has three planets in the entire universe that mine it."
Kim withdrew from the stone, resting her attention on the ground between them.  The varying makeup of the stones left Kim staring at them, enthralled.  She bent to pick one up, experiencing a brief thrill as her physical hand passed through her second consciousness, giving her a quick glimpse of a thousand wet, moving parts before she retrieved the stone and stood.
"The thing about ruvmestin," Syuri said, "Is that Congress uses it in everything.  It is a superconductor, as well as very strong.  When they take out the platinum and add it to other metals, it makes the end result about twice as strong and leaves no interference in electron flow.  It is the most important ingredient in ship power systems, as no energy is lost nor slowed in transit."
Kim nodded, closing her fist over the stone she had removed from the lakebed.  She entered it with her second consciousness, enveloping herself in the grainy, crystalline material.  The beautiful patterns left her breathless, the flaws and impurities great valleys and new worlds to be discovered.
"It's so scarce, though, that Congress closely monitors every mine.  They're very protective of it, too.  They don't allow any unauthorized ships to get within the same solar system as a ruvmestin-producing planet, not even marked government or military ships."  He made a wistful sound.  "I would know.  I tried it."
Kim experimentally pulled the stone apart and put it back together as she had seen in Syuri's bead.
"There are other ways to get your hands on ruvmestin, though," Syuri said.  "Congie-grade biosuits contain ungodly amounts of the stuff, and military supply officers are always willing to misplace a suit or two in exchange for a few untraceable credits."
Kim felt the stone shrink to a third of its original size in her hand, until it was about five times the size of Syuri's bead.  She opened her fingers and peered down at it, the overcast sky reflecting in the smooth white metal surface.  Immediately, she wished she could change it back.  Compared to the stone it had been, it looked dull.  The stone had been filled with crystals, imperfections, tiny flaws that made its appearance interesting.  The white metal, however, was just that—white metal.  It was too perfect.  Too refined.
Boring.
Grimacing, Kim tossed the metal nugget into the lake.
"Of course, it's dangerous to take too many suits from one supplier—you've gotta move around or the Training Committee gets suspicious.  I learned that the hard way, after they set up a sting.  Barely got out of there with my hide."
"It doesn't seem like it's worth it," Kim said, watching the water ripple.  The fact that she could never turn any of her changes back to the original, despite how perfectly similar it looked, left her depressed.  The metal nugget, being shaped by Kim and not nature and chance, had lost all of the stone's intrigue, all of its mystery.  Would all her changes as a Maker be like this?  If so, she thought she would lose interest quickly.
"Doesn't seem like it's worth it?"  Syuri scoffed.  "Do you know how much money you make off of one suit?  This bead I have is a Preejan Standard for ruvmestin measurement worth exactly twenty-five thousand credits.  You get sixteen of them off of a Congressional biosuit."  Syuri grinned and held it out to her.  "Want to hold it?  Not a lot of people can say they've seen raw ruvmestin, let alone touched it."
"No thanks," Kim said. 
Syuri shoved it into her hands.  "Take it.  Don't worry about losing it.  Forgotten and I are very wealthy people.  You lose it and I'll just get another."
Kim held the bead in front of her face, though she only looked at it with her eyes.  Her second consciousness was hovering over the ground, awed by the towering crystals and rugged gorges that were the surface of a single rock.
"Well?" Syuri demanded.
"It's beautiful," Kim whispered.  She pulled closer, awed by the way a tiny sand crystal caught the light and shattered it into thousands of different colors on the rock around it.
"Wealth is a beautiful thing," Syuri agreed.  He took the thong and its ruvmestin bead back from her and tucked it back into his pocket.  "It serves another purpose, too.  If, for some reason, Congress traces my transactions back to the Bajna planet of Preejan—Preejan is where all the money in Congress is stored, and even though all their transactions are supposed to be untraceable and their accounts completely secure, I've had my funds seized before and it wasn't pretty.  Anyway, sometimes a Peacemaker gets smart, finds a way to track me down and confiscate my assets.  That's where these come in handy."  He patted the pocket where he had deposited his bead.  "I've got a hundred of them stored in different places around the universe.  Not that I expect them to take everything I've got—that won't be possible.  I've got my fingers in so many pies it'd take Forgotten years just to figure it out."
It didn't even take me a whole second.  You've got that one bead, two rundown ships, and some gambling chips you didn't cash in due to a gun in your face.
Kim jerked at Forgotten's soft mental voice.  Ever since they'd landed, he'd only talked via the ship's speaker system, so she hadn't realized he was still in her head. 
He has a gambling habit, Forgotten said as a way of apology.  Doesn't matter how much I pay him, or how often, he's constantly broke.
Gingerly, Kim asked, Have you been in my head the whole time?
Forgotten hesitated.  Yes.  He has absolutely no idea you just made enough ruvmestin to buy a yacht.  I wonder what he'd say if he knew you'd thrown it away.  The Geuji sounded amused.
That meant Forgotten had seen everything—from her argument with Fire to the ruvmestin in her hand.  It left her so unnerved that her second consciousness snapped back into the security of her body.  Then, having second thoughts at the sudden drabness to the world, she tentatively moved outward again.
Nothing stopped her.
Kim felt a gasp of happiness as the world detonated into greater depth and color.
Syuri gave her a pleased look and nodded.  "It's true.  My very name brings shopkeepers rushing to do my bidding.  I have accounts on sixteen planets, open lines of credit on another thirty."
All of which are empty or overdrawn.  If I didn't buy his ships every three years, he'd starve to death.
"Not that I'm boasting," Syuri said.  "My empire truly is as vast as Congress."
Oh, please.  Kim, end my misery.  Ask him what he wants.
"What do you want?" Kim said.
Syuri flinched.  "Nothing.  I just came out to see how you are doing."
"I'm fine," Kim said.  She squatted and began scanning the ground for the chain that Fire had broken when he yanked her grandmother's pendant free.
"What are you doing?" Syuri asked.
"I lost my grandmother's necklace chain," Kim said.  "Gold.  It's on the ground somewhere around here."
"Oh.  Let me help."  Syuri dropped back to all six legs and began scanning the ground, his face a foot above the sand.  Kim searched with him, inspecting the wet gravel where she had come out of the lake.  Frowning, she glanced up the lakebed.  Her tracks marked the damp sand, but she couldn't be sure where she had entered the water.
Behind her, Syuri stopped, then hesitantly lifted half of a gold chain from the rocks where it had fallen.  He gave her a mournful look.  "Broken," he said.  "There's pieces everywhere."  He delicately began picking the tiny links from between the stones.  "I don't think I can get them all."
Kim crouched beside him and began to help.
"Here," Syuri said, letting the golden links tinkle into Kim's hand once they could find no more.  He gave them a woeful look. "That was your grandmother's?"
"Yeah, but it was just a chain.  She used it to hold her pendant."
"Still," Syuri said.  "Family is important.  Is your grandmother...deceased?" 
Kim nodded.  "She was the one Forgotten told me about."
Syuri peered sorrowfully at the pathetic pile of broken links.  "If you save them, I could take them to a metalsmith on Tsuar.  If you had a picture of it, they could put it back together exactly the way it was before."
"That's all right," Kim said.  "This one needed an overhaul, anyway.  You said ruvmestin is strong, right?"
Syuri snorted.  "Ruvmestin?  It's as strong as it gets."
Kim scooped up some sand and dumped it into the pile of gold links.  Syuri gave her an odd look.  "I wasn't lying.  I would have taken them to Tsuar for you."
"That's okay.  This will be better."  Kim sank her consciousness into the pile of sand and silver.  Gathering it all together in her mind, she shifted it to the pyramid-shaped structures she had seen in Syuri's bead.
That was the easy part.
Forming the individual links was much harder.  She had to mold and shape the metal with her mind, using the old necklace as a pattern.  Still, it was doable.  Her second consciousness, she found, was different than her first in that she could concentrate so fully on one tiny aspect of anything around her that time seemed to stand still around her.  She was alone with her thoughts, and every thought seemed to come more freely and encompass more territory than her mind was used to.  It was almost as if she could think about a grain of sand or a flake of skin like Forgotten could think about the internal workings of Congress.
When Kim opened her fingers, glowing white metal links lay connected in her hand.  She lifted it up and gave the chain an experimental tug.  It held strong.  Kim braced herself and jerked harder, with more force than Fire had used to snap it from her neck.  It held, showing not a sign of weakness.  Tentatively, she opened the clasp and looped the end through her grandmother's pendant.
Syuri was staring at her, his mouth open wide.  "Is that what I think it is?"
"An emerald?"  She held up the silver pendant, displaying the huge emerald in its center.  "Yes, but it's not natural.  My grandmother made it.  That chip's from when my mother dropped a rock on it as a child."
"No, the chain."
Kim frowned.  "What about it?"
"It's ruvmestin?"
"You said it was strong."
"You made it out of sand?"  He was starting to stink again, his inner chambers flexing and gushing nasty fluids out over his skin.
"I didn't have enough gold."
Syuri peered at her like a dog that had started to talk.  "I thought you were broken."
"Broken?"
"Broken.  Forgotten said he had to help you shape matter.  You couldn't do it by yourself."
Kim shrugged.
Syuri was getting excited now.  "So you can make as much ruvmestin as you want?  You don't need any special ingredients?  You could make this whole shore ruvmestin if you wanted to?"  He waved an arm to include the driftwood and wet stones.
Kim glanced at the sandy bank behind her.  She hadn't thought about that.  Just how much could she do at once?  "Maybe."
The Jahul seemed to make a choking noise.  "Can you do it for me?"  Then, "No, no.  Not the whole bank.  Just a part of it.  A few yards.  Then I'll throw sand over it and come back when Forgotten's not being a Peacemaker about the whole thing."
Kim frowned at the beautiful sand and stones of the beach.  "Why would I want to change the beach?"
Syuri blinked, but recovered quickly.  "Maybe you don't want to change the beach, but I want you to change the beach."
"Ruvmestin's that important to you?" Kim asked, frowning.
"Oh yes," Syuri said, flexing more rancid fluids out over his body.  "Very, very important."
Kim glanced down at the beach, located a head-sized rock, and sank her consciousness into it.  It shrank down to the size of a fist, taking on the internal pyramids Kim had come to associate with Syuri's favorite substance.  She walked over to it and squatted beside it.  Syuri's beady black eyes followed her as she reached out to touch the gleaming white surface.  Even though it could fit in her open hand, she needed two hands to pick it up.  She tugged it off the ground, then stood with a grunt of effort.
"Here," she said, holding it out to Syuri with both arms.  "You can have this."
The Jahul stared at it in silence.  Slowly, his hands reached out to take it.
"I'll make you more if you want," Kim said, dropping it into his hands.  "But right now I'm tired.  Can we go back to the ship?"
"Yes," Syuri said, staring down at the lump of metal in his hands.  "You must rest."  He tucked the ruvmestin under his arm and then gave her a sheepish look.  "You have no idea what you just did, do you?"
"What did I do?"
Syuri groaned.  "Jreet gods, Forgotten is playing a delicate game.  He's lucky I am who I am, or you might disappear."
That, at least, is true, Forgotten said.
Kim's brow crinkled.  "So you want more ruvmestin?"
"No.  Gods, no, child.  This is enough.  I'm just a greedy old criminal who took advantage of an innocent.  If I were any less a pirate, I'd throw it into the lake and forget about it."  He patted his ball of metal fondly.  "But like I said, I am who I am.  The same pirate who won't sell you to the highest bidder on the black market is also the same pirate who will keep this ill-begotten lump of metal solely so he can see his reflection in it every morning.  Funny how life works, isn't it?"
He's a smuggler, not a pirate.  Tell him that.
"Forgotten says you're a smuggler, not a pirate," Kim said.
Syuri waved a disgusted hand and peered back at the ship over his shoulder.  "That wily old Jreet will never know about this."  He caressed the white ball under his arm.  "It'll be our little secret until I've properly divested myself of it, okay?"
"Um," Kim said, "I think he already—"
Oh let him have his fantasy, Forgotten said.  He's due for a dose of nutrients and I don't want to break his world apart when he realizes I won't let him sell it.  After the hundred credit max on the lifestones, I think he might actually throw a tantrum.
Syuri was watching her expectantly.  "He already what?"
"—said he didn't want you to sell ruvmestin," Kim said.
Syuri snorted.  "Contrary to the cagey old slime mold's opinion of himself, he doesn't know everything.  The way some people—people that have never met him—talk, they talk like he's a god."  He laughed.  "He's mortal, just like everyone else."  He sighed, deeply.  "But of course I won't sell it.  It would interfere with the Plan.  I'll just hold on to it so I can look at it in the mornings—don't worry about me."
Forgotten snorted in her mind.  He's already working out how to get the ruvmestin to a fence without me noticing.
Kim's eyes fixed on the ruvmestin peeking from under his arm.  "Did I do something wrong?"
No.  I predicted he'd try as much.
Syuri laughed.  "Not at all."  He patted his ruvmestin ball.  "You did me a kindness, Human.  Now let's go get you some sleep—we wouldn't want you to burn out."
He really likes that stuff, Kim commented.
I believe it's what would be labeled as a personality flaw.  A lot of Jahul have it.  They're hoarders at heart.  Forgotten sounded almost amused.  Now I just have to make sure this particular hoarder doesn't trigger a chain reaction that destroys Sky's plan and gets us all killed.
Do you want me to turn it back to a rock? Kim asked, watching it with her second consciousness.
No, let him play with it.  I did promise him ruvmestin, after all...







CHAPTER 24: Courage
The first day Fred wore the tiny cross into the Regency, he felt as if every eye was on him, condemning him for a cheat.  He knew other Representatives had their tricks—some had drugs, some studied body language and facial expressions, and some were simply so dangerous they didn't need tricks—but with Sky's lifestone around his neck, he felt like a two-bit swindler anyway.
As the day continued and no one pointed him out as a charlatan, however, Fred began to gain confidence.  The self-assurance Sky had instilled into the cross began to work its magic.  He spoke up in the votes, gave his opinions where he normally would have remained silent.  He felt other members giving him odd looks, expecting him to watch the proceedings from afar like the rest of the minor members, but it simply made Fred more poised, more assertive.
When Representative Kaj'nol offered a resolution for the one-thousand and eleventh time banning all Ueshi and Ooreiki from Huouyt-owned planets and immediately confiscating all private business and commerce they left behind for Huouyt citizens, Fred stood up and turned on his podium.
The other Representatives, by now used to Kaj'nol's irritating, if symbolic, request, glanced up.
"Kaj'nol," Fred said, without introduction, "You've bored us with your stupid proposition every day for three turns.  What do you not understand about our previous rulings?  Has something about one thousand and eleven 'no' votes given you the idea that if you annoy us enough, we will say 'yes?'"
Absolute silence descended upon the Regency.  Long tics passed, with all eyes on Fred and Kaj'nol.
Finally, softly, Representative Kaj'nol said, "What did you say?"
"The Ueshi and the Ooreiki are the two most populous species in the universe.  They create our most important artifacts, research our most valuable technologies, are responsible for over half of all tourism, and their holdings account for a third of our economy.  I say we allow you to ban them from your planets, if you so desire.  And then, once they are banned, we shall send Congressional forces to maintain it. If the Huouyt want to cut themselves from the cloth, I vote we let them do just that.  We will allow no Ooreiki to trade their luxuries with you, no Ueshi to visit your planets and spend their riches.  Perhaps then your pathetic excuse for civilization will devolve back into the slime-puddles it came from and you will stop boring us with your mindless whining."
The Regency was so silent that Fred could hear Kaj'nol's breja flowing over his body in waves.
After a moment, Kaj'nol said, "What has become of the Human, to make him believe himself worthy of a speech before the assemblage?"
"Nothing," Fred said.  "I'm just damn tired of your idiotic request.  If you ask again, I will vote yes."
"And I," another voice said across the room.  Daviin stretched his neck up and over the seats surrounding him, his yellow gaze like a basilisk's stare.  "Enough stupidity, Kaj'nol.  Your vendetta against Genbiraa and Verbhan will waste no more of my time."
"I agree," Genbiraa said.  The Ueshi waved a dismissive blue-green hand in Kaj'nol's direction.  "I'd be happy to insist my people abstain from patronizing your pitiable planets any longer."
"It is unfortunate we already voted," Verbhan said, snorting with amusement.
Fred sat back down, a rush of triumph roaring through him.  He could feel Kaj'nol's searing gaze from across the room, but he did not even acknowledge it.
This is wonderful, Fred thought.  I've never felt so good.
Later, after the First Citizen's shaggy blue form rose from his seat and called an end to the session, Kaj'nol appeared beside Fred's Regency seat, courtesy of the Watcher.  Though his fishlike electric blue eyes were dead of any emotion, there was fury in the waves of cilia rushing across the Huouyt's body.
"That was a mistake, Human."
Fred glanced the Huouyt up and down, feeling none of the fear he knew he should have felt in that situation.  Kaj'nol, like every Huouyt politician, was a trained assassin.  They didn't even bother hiring their own guards, and forbade the Jreet from following them.  Kaj'nol was tall, almost six feet, but Fred stared him down fearlessly.
"You're right.  I think you made a lot of citizens angry these last three turns."
"Where do you find the nerve?" Kaj'nol said in his soft, musical voice.  "Have you been without your species so long you finally lost your mind, Human?"
"Not at all," Fred replied.  "I simply grew tired of putting up with your shit."
The Huouyt's white-blue eyes fixed on him in silence.  Finally, he said, "Your days are numbered, Mullich."
Fred laughed.  "As are yours.  Especially if you continue to make a fool of yourself in the sessions."
The electric eyes of the Huouyt narrowed.  "In case your tiny mind did not understand, I will lay it out for you.  My people are best known for their ability to take on any form, blend with any surrounding, and kill without remorse.  Enjoy your life while you can, Mullich.  You will never know when it might end."
Fred chuckled.  "Instead of threatening me, Huouyt, you should be thanking me.  I did you a favor.  I got you what you'd been petitioning for for three turns.  How was I to know you were a flighty Takki who hadn't made up his mind?" 
Giving him a bone-searing glance, the Huouyt Representative ordered the Watcher to take him elsewhere.
Fred watched the fourth most powerful Representative in Congress disappear, feeling absolutely no fear whatsoever.
He's nothing but bluff and bluster, Fred thought, though he knew that many dead Representatives could attest otherwise.  He blinked, feeling a rush of exhilaration.  I'm not afraid of the stuffed squid.  He just promised to kill me and I'm not afraid!
Sky's token was working.
#
Kerjia slumped behind his desk, staring at the official change-of-duties document from the Congressional Space Corps.  Once again, Representative Kragkhen had put in a request for his dismissal.  This time, however, the Corps Director had granted his request.  No explanation, no appeal, no chance to finish his task with the Humans—simply yanked from his highly-paid duties for the Regency and shuttled off to some pointless station as far from Koliinaat as possible, with all the other misfits and grunge at the bottom of the Space Force social ladder who weren't considered talented enough to be given the bonus pay and benefits of living on Koliinaat.  The only reason given?  Loss of cargo.
Even though the two Humans could never have left his ship without Kraghken's pet to guide them to who-knew-where.
It was all so maddening he wanted to throw himself into a fire.  He supposed his superiors were tired of the constant attention from a member of the Tribunal—how Kerjia had had the misfortune to knock over that particular ferlii still confounded him—and getting rid of Kerjia was the easiest way to get the Dhasha Representative off their backs.
Never mind that Kerjia's own brother was on that same Tribunal, and that, despite having an automatic waiver due to being a close relative of a Representative, Kerjia had accepted his Draft number with discipline and honor and had faithfully served in the military to scrape elbows with even the most common Jahul.  He'd dedicated his life to Congress...and they had abandoned him for it.
The unfairness of it burned like acid etching into his oorei.  He still didn't understand why Kragkhen had insisted on coming along on the trip to Earth.  All Kerjia had wanted was to complete the mission given to him by the Planetary Claims Board and bring the first handful of Humans back into Congressional society.  It was a minor mission, with a tiny force, and he'd wanted no drama.  They'd chosen Kerjia to lead it due to his close associations with the Regency and his ability to stand up to Dhasha pressure to find some reason to reject Humans' re-entry into Congress...including the unavoidable attempts at bribery, should terrifying the expedition leaders into submission fail.
Kerjia should've known the moment Kragkhen had decided to insert himself that it was a nightmare task doomed to fail.  A wise Ooreiki would have found some way to turn down the assignment the moment he realized a Representative would be onboard, maybe had a sudden family 'emergency' or claim a few rotations' leave for 'personal' matters.  Anything but share the same ship with an arrogant Dhasha prince for one and a half rotations.
It had been Kerjia's honor, however, that had kept him from bowing out of the drama he knew would ensue.  When the Dhasha wanted something, anyone standing in their way usually ended up on the Debris Pile of Life.  Kerjia had known that he, as an Ooreiki with a very wealthy family and powerful political ties, was the Humans' best chances of successful re-integration, as even the most morally dedicated Ooreiki would fall prey to the wealth and awe of a Dhasha prince, when he wanted a certain outcome.
And, for that moment of stupid valor, now Kerjia was humiliated, stripped of his special assignments, with a pension that, when he went to claim it, would only be worth half of what it had been only moments ago.
His sudah fluttering in rage, Kerjia balled up the official change-of-duty notice and threw it aside with a scream.  That's what he got simply for doing the job he was given to the best of his ability.  He had a hundred and fifteen turns of loyal service, eighty turns of which had been working overtime on Koliinaat after he'd beat out eight thousand other Prime Commander candidates to take the job as part of the elite Regency Special Corps.  Eighty turns, and they'd sent him away like a vkala.  An entire career of loyal service had gotten him a ten-turn assignment to a Space Force filled with rejects tasked with hunting outlaws no one cared about on the furthest edge of the Old Territory.  His flight would be departing in two hours.
Hatred began to burn within him before he fought it down.  For a brief moment, he hoped the Fourfold Prophecy was true and Congress finally received its reckoning for keeping the peace-loving Ooreiki fighting wars with Dhasha and Huouyt for two million turns.
Someday, this will all fall around your shoulders, he thought, thinking of the Regency and the uppity Special Corps Director who had signed his dismissal only tics before.
Then, sighing, he got up to go pack.







CHAPTER 25: Twice the Fire
When Kim returned to the ship with Syuri, Forgotten was still having a powwow with the Council on the middle of the common room floor.  Fire looked up at her, saw the pendant around her neck, and smiled at her sweetly.
Kim smiled back, sinking her consciousness into his chest, beyond his lungs and into his heart.  She felt his heartbeat, the rhythmic pressure of each rush of blood all around her.
I could kill him, she thought, staring at the veiny red wall.  It wouldn't even be an effort.
Please don't, Forgotten said immediately.  I need him for my plan to work.
Ugh.  Kim pulled out of the chambers of her brother's heart, looking at his body as a whole.  As mean and worthless as Fire was as a human being, his body was a work of art.  The billions of tiny particles, the dozens of different base materials all building separate working parts that acted together in harmony.  Kim had to pause a moment, her breath once again catching at the beauty of the life before her.
"Had to take a little time to dry off?" Fire said, grinning up at her with all the smugness of a pampered cat.  He touched a finger to his throat, indicating the spot where Kim's grandmother's pendant now rested.
"It didn't take long," Kim said.  She felt the eyes of the other Council members on her like hot coals against her skin.  "The air helped."
Fire chuckled and turned back to the other Council members.  "She had a problem out by the lake."
Kim nodded politely and moved through the room, to the sleeping chambers on the other side.  Syuri followed on her heels, though his head twisted around to watch Fire with a frown.
"Did he have anything to do with your chain breaking?" Syuri asked, once they were both standing outside Kim's chamber.
"He did me a favor," Kim said, tracing Fire's body with her second consciousness.  His body resembled hers in a lot of ways, from the proportions of the most basic, elemental components, right up to the shape of their lungs and livers.  Looking at him this way, she knew Forgotten was right.  Beyond a doubt, they were related.
"Child," Syuri said, placing a gloved hand upon her arm.  His small, black eyes looked up at her with sincere compassion.  "His eyes did not belong to a creature who had just dealt you a favor.  What did your brother do?"
"A favor," Kim repeated, growing annoyed.  "He showed me how to reach my power."
Confusion crossed the Jahul's bald greenish face.  "So he didn't break the chain?"
"He did," Kim said.  "And then I made it better than before."
Syuri blinked at her.  "I'm sorry.  I must have been mistaken earlier.  I thought it had been important to you."  He turned to continue his journey down the hall to his room.
Kim felt her irritation melt away and her second consciousness halted its examination of Fire to join with her body.  She reached out and touched the Jahul's gloved fingers before he could depart.  "Grandmother's pendant meant everything to me."  She lifted it out of her shirt so Syuri could see it.  "Fire broke the chain so he could throw it into the lake."
Syuri's eyes widened.  "How did you get it back?"
"I went for a swim," Kim said.  At Syuri's hard glance back at the other room, she leaned back and said, "Don't worry, Syuri.  What happened at the lake was between Fire and I."
"But you are outclassed, child.  Even I can see he wears his power like a crown."  His features hardened suddenly.  "I will talk to him."
"No," Kim said, catching the Jahul's arm.  "He is the most powerful Maker on Earth.  He won't respect anyone but another Maker."
Syuri watched her a moment, then glanced down at the lump of metal under his arm.  He blanched.  "I suppose an old pirate would simply make a fool of himself, eh?"
"He might change your ruvmestin back to stone for the insult," Kim agreed.
"Or my head to a kariwq bulb."  Syuri shook his head, then peered up at her.  "You're sure?  If you are in any danger, Forgotten or I would gladly help."
"I'm not in danger," Kim said.
"Good," Syuri said, oblivious.  "Stay that way.  If you do need help, though, tell me.  Old Syuri will have your back."  Syuri grinned and patted his ruvmestin lump.  "Until then, I'm off to gaze at my reflection."  He squeezed her hand, then dropped to six legs and went to his own room.
Kim watched him go, then shut the door to the hall.  Inside, she went to the bed and lay down. 
Her second consciousness flowed forth the moment she summoned it, filling the room, allowing her to feel the substance of every object within the confines of the walls.  She once more sought out Fire's body.
The Maker still sat in the central room, though his arrogant smirk was gone and he looked as if he were concentrating intently on what the others were saying.
Kim settled down to observe him, wondering what it was about him that made him so much more powerful than anyone else.  She moved into his brain, scanning the ripples and twists she found there.  There were no glowing green parts, no radioactive symbols etched into the gray matter—nothing obviously different about him.
Kim found the other Maker in the room—a broad-shouldered woman who looked like she was more suited to swinging a pickaxe outside the Territory than being draped in expensive silks and embroidery.  She sank through the thin barrier of the woman's skull and reached inside her head, probing the fluid-filled buffer between brain and bone.  Like Fire, she had no extra lumps, no abnormalities that would account for her power.
Kim went back to Fire and began studying him again.  The first thing she realized about him was that he wore real leather.  Unlike the beautiful silks on the other Maker, it was rough and imperfect, stiff and uncomfortable.
Under the leather, he wore a plain white cotton shirt and blue jeans—also real.
Kim stared at the snarls in the cotton, confused.  He could make it a thousand times better than any farmer with a loom.  Why would he wear something uncomfortable when he could wear silk?
Then, grudgingly, she came to the answer.  He wore real leather for the same reason she had thrown the ruvmestin nugget into the lake—he found the natural world more beautiful than anything he could create himself.
Kim felt the beginnings of respect for him.
Then, just as quickly, she remembered how her grandmother's pendant had skipped across the waves before settling under the murky depths, how the insects had burrowed into her eyes and ears.
Next time won't be so easy on you, brother, Kim thought, glaring at his oblivious face in her second sight.  Then, because she really was tired, Kim pulled herself back into her body and went to sleep.
#
"How'd you retrieve that bauble?"  Fire's voice called from the treeline along the lake's edge, making Kim flinch.  "I know it's the same one.  I went back to the lake and checked."  He was walking towards her across the beach, leaving deep footprints in the sand.
"I swam," Kim said, getting warily to her feet.  She had been using her second consciousness to watch squirrels eat pine seeds on the forest floor somewhere out in the expanse of greenery and had been so engrossed that she hadn't heard him approach. 
"You were dry when you walked in," Fire accused.  "Not a single drop of water in your clothes, not even under the waistband."
"Maybe I went in naked," Kim said.
Fire narrowed his eyes at her.  "Did Shadow retrieve it for you?"
"Who's Shadow?"
"You aren't very smart, are you?" he sneered.  "The giant.  The one who held Blue when she grew tired."
"I got it myself," Kim said, glancing behind him nervously.  "Is the meeting over?"  The last thing she wanted was to be alone again with her brother.
"The Council gave Forgotten everything he wants," Fire said, sounding disgusted.  "Now all there is to do is make the lifestones and wait for our next set of visitors."
"Oh, good," Kim said, moving to go back to the ship.
Fire stopped her with a muscled arm.  "Tell me how you got it back."
"I swam," Kim growled, shoving his arm away from her.
"And your chain?" Fire demanded.  "Am I supposed to believe you just happened to have a spare on hand?"
"I got a new one," Kim said.
"That's a pity," Fire said.  He reached out and yanked hard on the pendant.
The chain didn't snap.  Instead, it bit into her neck, leaving a welt.
"Ow!"  Kim jerked away from him, taking the pendant back with her.  She scowled at him.  Her skin was burning where the chain had eaten into her neck.  She checked for blood, surprised when her fingers came back clean.
Fire's brown eyes glazed a moment, then he snapped, "What is that made of?  I've never seen anything like it."
"Now you have," Kim said.  Then she turned to walk around him.
Fire reached out and stopped her roughly.  "Forgotten told us you couldn't use your powers."
She narrowed her eyes up at him.  Her second consciousness floated an inch from his left eye, analyzing the glistening surface.  "He's wrong."
Fire blinked and backed away from her.  "What are you doing?"
Kim said nothing, watching him.
"Are you looking at my insides right now?"  He looked pale.
Kim gave an amused snort.  "Don't worry.  I'm not petty.  And I won't make a swarm of bugs to eat you alive, either."
Fire stared at her, then suddenly threw back his head and laughed.  "Won't?  You can't.  You're just an ordinary."  He stepped forward and jabbed a finger into her chest, pushing her backwards.  "That was a good bluff, sister.  For a moment, I actually thought you had attained second consciousness."
"I am in the second sight," Kim said, still amazed at the fact.  "I've been there since you stuffed sand down my throat and into my ears.  I haven't been able to get out of it for more than a couple minutes before I'm free again."  She grinned at him, enjoying the way his facial muscles were contorting under his skin.  "Everything is so beautiful.  Even you."
Fire scowled.  "You're lying."
"No," Kim said, still smiling, "It's true.  I wanted to thank you.  At first, I was really angry.  All I wanted to do was sink into your heart and put holes in it.  Then I realized you'd done me a favor.  I'm fixed.  I can see everything now.  As far as I want to go.  I tried.  I can see the other planets out in space, and it only takes me a thought to get to them."
"You're lying," Fire repeated.  He bent down and scooped up a handful of sand, his gaze stony.
Kim frowned at the tiny crystals in his palm.  Even now, with his fingers closed around them, they were changing into insects.  Her eyes widened.  "No, Fire, don't—"
He opened his palm and blew the bugs into her face.
Her second consciousness slammed back into her body as she panicked.  She closed her eyes and batted at them with her hands, trying to get them away from her.
A few feet away, Fire snorted.  "I knew you were lying."  As she was distracted, he reached out and tore the pendant over her head.  "Grandma would've wanted me to have this.  You're just a pathetic ordinary."
As Fire turned to leave, time seemed to stop for Kim.  Her second consciousness was outside her body, concentrating intently on the bugs.  In one effortless motion, she obliterated them all.  Not back into sand crystals, but into tiny bursts of air.
Fire glanced back at the popping sounds.  His eyes widened.
"Give it back," Kim said, shaking as she held out her hand.
Fire turned to face her completely, holding out the pendant.  "You want it back?"  He squeezed it in his fist, crushing it against his palm.  When he opened his fingers again, fine white dust spilled out.  He gave her a bitter smile.  "Oops.  Guess neither of us can have it."  He shook dust from his fingers lazily.
Staring at the fine white dust drifting to the ground, Kim felt an overpowering rage flush upward, taking her self-control with it.  She grasped Fire's head within her consciousness and came within an instant of destroying it.  All that was necessary was a slight twist of her mind, a single thought.
Reluctantly, she pulled away.
"Watch closely," Kim said, her voice a soft whisper.  Then she plunged her mind into the air between them, condensing it, changing it.  A breeze picked up around them, swaying the pine branches.  The breeze intensified, becoming a whipping roar.
Fire frowned as the shape evolved before him.  Finally, he laughed.  "A statue?  You're trying to scare me with a statue?"
Kim's creation came to life.  Its jaw fell open, the leather of its clothing creaking as it stumbled backwards, away from Fire.  Its brown eyes blinked confusedly and it said in Fire's voice, "That's funny.  For a second, I thought the trees changed places."
Fire's face drained of color, his eyes riveted on the thing standing between them.  Her creation returned the look.  "Is he real?" they asked at once.
"As real as you are," Kim said, rage still coursing through her.
Both Fires turned to look at her, their faces stricken.  At the same time, they said, "Kim, get rid of him."
The original Fire returned his attention to the new Fire.  "Get rid of him?  Who do you think you are?  You're just a copy."
"A copy?" the new Fire said.  "Right.  I remember everything about myself, back to when I accidentally broke my leg falling off the roof of the mirror tower.  You're the copy."
The old Fire frowned.  "I've been standing here the whole time.  You're the one who changed positions."
"Could a copy change the air like this?" the new Fire said, holding out a hand and producing a rock in his palm.
The old Fire went pale.  "But I can do that too."  He demonstrated.
The new Fire stared at the rock, his jaw falling open again.
"That's it," the old Fire said, "I'm leaving.  Kim, you made this mess.  You deal with it."  He turned and began to walk away.
"Fire," Kim said, her eyes catching and holding the faint white dust that had been her grandmother's pendant.
Both of them turned to look at her.
Softly, she said, "I won't warn you again."  She walked past the new Fire and focused on the Fire who had been leaving.  His eyes widened a fraction, then he exploded in a puff of white dust identical to the stuff that had once been her grandmother's pendant.
The new Fire made a choking sound and stumbled away from her, staring at the dust.
"Don't come near me again," Kim said leaning in until their faces almost touched.  Then she pushed past him.
This time, Fire did not try to stop her.  He was too busy staring in horror at the pile of dust, squatting to gingerly touch his fingers to it like a fresh grave...
#
Kim was sitting on the bank of a winding creek, her body exhausted with crying, when a branch snapped behind her.  The Council had found her, as she knew they would.  She wondered what they did to murderers.  Twice, now. 
Would they kill her slowly, or would they make it hurt?  She guessed they would make it fast, knowing how dangerous she was.  Kim hunched in on herself, arms around her knees.  Without looking up, she said, "Please tell Forgotten I'm sorry.  I ruined everything.  I'm so sorry."  Another sob tore from her chest and she felt her shoulders shake.
"No, I'm sorry."
At the sound of Fire's voice, Kim jerked and jumped to her feet, spinning.  Viciously wiping her eyes, she said, "I told you to stay away from me!"
Fire lowered his gaze to the chipped emerald pendant upon his palm.  The chain, oddly, was made of gold.  "I'm sorry.  Here."  He offered it to her.  "I shouldn't have taken it."
Kim stared, making no move to take it.  "I don't want something you made.  I'd rather wear broken glass."
Fire gave the pendant a remorseful look.  "Kim, I made the one I destroyed.  This is the original, I swear it.  I dropped it on the ground while you were distracted with my other hand.  I was going to keep it because I wanted something of Grandma's.  I'd never met her.  She's—everyone I know speaks of her, but I never even saw her face.  I thought if I made you think I destroyed it, you wouldn't come looking for it."  He bit his lip and looked away.  "That's what I was going to do back at the lake.  I was going back for it, now that you wore the one I threw in the lake."  He offered her the pendant again.  "I'm sorry."
Kim saw the broken golden chain dangling from the pendant, a perfect copy of the one she had retrieved from the lake.  Guilt crushed her in a sickening wave.
I'm a murderer.
"Keep it," Kim said, shuddering.  She shook her head.  "I don't want it."
Fire reached out for her hand, but she jerked away, feeling dirty and sick.
"Please," Fire said.  When she met his eyes, they were agonized.  "I shouldn't have taken it from you."
"What, because you're scared of me now?" she snapped.
"No.  Because it was wrong."
Kim flinched and looked away as Fire gently reached out and clasped her hand and pressed the emerald into her palm.  She felt sobs building again in her chest and she couldn't look at him.
I'm a murderer and he doesn't even know it.
Fire closed her fingers over the emerald and stepped back.  Lines of worry creased his face as he watched her.  "I'm really sorry.  I didn't know it meant so much to you."
Kim just shook her head and looked away in shame.  I murdered someone over a stupid piece of jewelry.  I don't deserve to live.
Fire winced, then stuffed his hands into his belt.  "I guess you don't want me around."
Kim said nothing, as it was all she could do simply to shake her head.  She was battling the overpowering urge to break down into tears in front of him.
Instead of leaving, Fire met her gaze tentatively, his brown eyes hesitant.  "I screwed everything up.  I kept imagining meeting you someday and I thought it would be wonderful.  I thought we could talk, I could show you around the Origin and you could tell me about Grandma.  Then I saw you and I got jealous.  You had Forgotten backing you, telling me you were stronger than I was.  I didn't want to believe it.  I thought he was wrong until—"  Fire looked away.  "I'm sorry."
Kim shook her head.
Gingerly, her brother held out his hand to her.  "I'm Fire.  I know it's a silly name, but I never got a chance at a good one."  He made an attempt at a smile, but it fell flat as Kim began to cry.
You're not Fire, she thought.  You're the copy.
"Sorry," he said again.  "I'll go."  He turned.
The agony in his face cut through her guilt.  I can't bring back the real Fire, but I can still try to make it better.  Sniffling, she said, "Mom didn't want to give you away."
Fire turned back to her suddenly, looking startled.  "She didn't?"
Kim nodded.  "I remember the fight.  It's...one of...the first things I remember.  Mom wanted to keep you.  Offered to raise you on her own.  Dad wouldn't have it.  He couldn't look at you without seeing your dad.  He was afraid for Mom.  He said he'd come back if they didn't deliver you to the Minder temple by your fourth month."  The longer she'd thought about what Forgotten had told her, the more she had remembered about her brother.
Fire glanced at the ground.  "I heard it was a Minder.  One of the soulless ones that got a bit too much shifter in them."
Kim choked down another sob.  "Yep."
Fire nodded, his eyes still fixed to the streambed.  "Blue said they sent the same Minder back...?"  Then, quickly, he added, "That was before I was on the Council.  I didn't get my seat until last year."
"I killed him," Kim whispered.  It was the first time she had confessed that fact to anyone.
Fire blinked.  "Blue had suspected something like that, but they never found the body."
"Buried it," Kim whispered.
Fire swallowed hard.  "Did Grandma teach you to access your second consciousness, then?"
Kim took a deep, trembling breath.  He deserved whatever answers he wanted from her.  She was a murderer and he didn't even know what she had done.  "Grandma died when I was four.  If she taught me anything back then, I don't remember it.  I learned yesterday, after your bugs attacked me.  I hadn't been able to get into my second consciousness before then."
Fire's head shot up.  "Are you serious?"
Kim stared at the ground, unable to meet his eyes.  "For awhile I thought you did me a favor."
"But I looked at that...thing...you made.  It was me.  The heart was beating and everything."
Kim started crying again.  "I shouldn't have done that.  I never, never, never should have done that, Fire.  I'm so sorry."
Fire touched her shoulder gently.  "But you didn't kill me.  Kim, what else have you made?  Horses?  Takki?  Dhasha?"
"Nothing," Kim said, wiping her blurry eyes.  He didn't understand.  He didn't know what he was or what she had done.  "I told you.  That was the first time I'd done anything alive."
"The first—"  Fire gaped at her.  "Kim, I've had free access to my second consciousness since I was six.  All I can make are bugs."
"I should never have done it," Kim repeated.  She wiped more tears away, but they kept coming.
Fire's eyes caught on a bird flitting on the pine branches behind her.  "Can you make a bird?  Like that one?"
Kim glanced behind her, sniffling, not caring.  "Maybe.  I don't know."
"Try," Fire commanded.  Then, blushing, he said, "Please?"
Kim felt a wave of goosebumps wash over her, along with a sickening feeling.  "No.  Never again.  That was you I killed, Fire.  The real you.  I'm never making something living again.  Never."
Fire glanced at the streambed.  "Was that why you were crying?"
Kim nodded, unable to hold back an agonized sob.
Fire gave her a kindly grin.  "It's okay.  He was annoying.  I'm glad you killed him.  Besides, there couldn't have been two of us, right?  One of us would have had to get a name change."  He chuckled.
Kim moaned and slumped back to the ground.  "You don't understand."
Fire touched her shoulder.  "No, I understand.  Once you made him, you had to unmake him.  I don't blame you for it.  He was just a clone.  It's not like he had a soul."
Kim glanced up at Fire and felt her shoulders shake again.
"What's wrong?" Fire asked, crouching beside her.
Kim closed her eyes and shook her head.  "Nothing.  Just leave me alone.  Please."
"Kim, if there's anything I can do—"
"There's not," she whispered.  "Please go."
After a long silence, Fire left.







CHAPTER 26: Playing God
Fred watched Sky fiddle with the spherical golden gem with disinterest.  His attention was still taken with how much respect he had gained within a single Regency session.  Already, six different minor Representatives had approached him with courtesies and seemingly mundane chat about the state of the universe, but Fred saw it for what it was.
They were looking for a spokesman.
Sky tapped the gem on the floor, breaking Fred's concentration.
"What are you doing with that thing, anyway?" Fred demanded in irritation.  "You've been playing with it all day."
From his corner, Sjilak muttered, "He's like a small child with a toy.  An extremely retarded small child with nothing better to do than drool and make my life miserable."
Sky said nothing.  He did not even look up.
"He's going to have you present it to the Regency," the Trith said bitterly.
This time, both Sky and Fred glanced at the Trith.  "So you can see the future again?" Fred asked.
"You don't need to see the future to be able to recognize what he's doing," the Trith muttered.  "He's playing God."
"You're one to talk," Fred said.
Sky gave an amused chuckle and the Trith's tiny mouth puckered in a pout. 
"Sjilak, where will Representative Genbiraa be in half an hour?" Fred asked.  "I should talk to her about this afternoon."
The Trith rolled his void-black eyes.  "Is that all I'm good for?  Predicting where Representatives will be at a given time?"
"Yes," Sky said.
Fred gave Sky an irritated glance.  "It's the deal you made with Forgotten in exchange for us allowing you to live."
"For something so simple, you could ask the Watcher to look it up," Sjilak said.
"You're faster," Fred replied.
"He'll be on Deck forty-seven G, eating dinner with Rakken.  The Violet Sun Resort."
Fred glanced at his watch.  "I'll meet them there."
No, Sky said.  Go talk to Verbhan.  He is alone attending an art viewing on the fifth deck.  Take this with you.  Sky held out the golden gem.
Fred frowned at the gem.  "Why should I?  What is Verbhan going to care about that?  Some of the most famous yeeri on Poen are his brothers and sisters—their art is of such quality that it makes its viewers cry.  He will not care about a gem."
He will care about this one, Sky said.  He dropped it into Fred's hand.  Now go.
#
Kim stumbled back to the ship in the dark, not caring about the way the branches jabbed and scraped at her face and skin.  Her second consciousness could see everything as vividly as it could in full sunlight, but she didn't bother guiding her own path.  She stared at the trees behind her, forcing her physical body to grope and stumble.
She had long since cried herself out.  Now all that was left was a hollow spot, a tired ache that she would never be able to soothe.
When Kim reached the ship, she was bruised and bleeding.  When she stepped inside the door, the ship was dark and still.  The Council was gone.
The ominous silence gave Kim goosebumps.  She shut the door behind her and started across the common room toward her dormitory.  When she reached the hall, she saw that Syuri's door was open.  Feeling alone and worthless, in need of someone to talk to, Kim went to his room and peeked inside. 
He was gone.
Kim's heart sank and she went to her own room, shutting the door softly behind her.  Perhaps Forgotten was asleep.
"Kim."
Kim bit her lip and shivered at Forgotten's voice.  "You saw?"
"Today something happened that I did not predict.  It may have changed everything."
"I killed someone," Kim whispered.
"Yes."
Kim's shoulders shook and she remained rooted to the floor, shivering.  "What should I do?"
"Actually, I was going to ask you that question.  Sky's exact words were that 'nobody dies.'  Depending on how we view what happened, I have not yet violated Sky's requirements because the person that you killed is actually still alive."
"It's not him though," Kim whispered.  "It's the copy."
"Which is a perfect replica in every way.  Right down to the same atomic structure.  The copy is Fire, Kim."
"I killed my brother," Kim managed, her eyes burning again.  "Over a piece of jewelry."
"True," Forgotten said.  "But the same brother still exists.  The same exact brother, Kim."
"But he's the copy," Kim whispered.  "I made him."
"You have that ability," Forgotten said.  "But the fact remains, Kim, your brother is still alive.  He may not be the original, but he is the same."
Kim shook her head, unable to speak.
"Back to my original question," Forgotten said.  "Technically, I have already failed.  Fire's death breaks the bargain I made with Sky and it is too late to stop the events I have set into motion.  Without me to guide them, everything will unravel and Earth will likely come out much further behind than it would have if Blue had had her way and had taken Fire and a small contingent of Minders and Movers and destroyed Koliinaat.  Still, though, I am a creature of my word.  I failed.  I broke our pact.  What would you have me do?"
"I broke our pact," Kim said softly.
"It was my misjudgment that put you into that position in the first place.  You see, watching you struggle with filling the crates on Koliinaat I realized you needed to learn to access your abilities without Sky before our plans could continue.  I took you here and provoked Fire because I wanted him to force you into your second consciousness.  However, I was utterly unable to foresee what you were capable of once you reached it.  I have working knowledge of your powers, but until now, I had never seen the extent of what you could do.  Using Fire's insects as an example, I thought perhaps you might have been able to make a cricket or spider at most, and thus I did not take into account what you would have done if you had been able to create a replica of a more complex creature such as a human.  It was my fault, Kim."
"No."  Kim viciously shook her head.  "I did it.  I killed him.  Just because you're smarter than us doesn't mean you're responsible for everything that happens around you.  I chose to kill the original instead of the replica.  I'm the murderer.  Not you."
Forgotten was silent a moment before he said, "Tell me something, Kim."
She blinked back tears.  "What?"
"I do not understand why it would have been better for you to kill the replica, rather than the original.  They were one in the same.  They were identical.  With the same molecular structure inside their brains, even their thoughts were identical.  How could you have killed the copy and felt any less remorse?"
Kim shuddered and closed her eyes.
"Because scientifically, each of them was exactly the same.  The exact same person.  Would you not have been a murderer if you killed the replica, instead?"
"So what should I have done?" Kim whispered.
"What is important is what you did do and how we will respond to it.  Shall I continue with the plan or should I tell Sky I failed?"
"Sky doesn't know already?" Kim whispered.
"He knows you are distressed, but he does not know the reason behind it.  Same with Blue.  As soon as I realized what was happening, I increased my mental output, basically overloading their consciousnesses until they had to back off.  They know something happened due to the way you are feeling, but they have seen Fire.  They don't understand what actually took place.  It does not even occur to them that you could have re-created him as you did."
Kim stared at her hands.  "What would the Minders have done if they saw what happened?"
Forgotten hesitated.  "Sky would have forgiven you eventually."
Kim got goosebumps.  "And Blue Rose?"
"She would have killed you."
Kim nodded and glanced at the door.  I'll tell her.
"No."  Forgotten's sudden command made her flinch.  "Kim, do you want Sky's plan to succeed?"
Kim took a deep breath, staring at the glowing door panel.  "Yes."  Her voice was barely audible.
"Then you will not tell her.  I need you for it to work.  Do you understand, Kim?  I've made allowances for many things, planned out contingencies, plotted so many tiny details that are constantly changing that it would drive you insane just to show you a fraction of it.  But there are four keys to my plan that must be in place in order for it to work.  Sky, Mullich, Syuri, and you.  Everything else will fall apart without any one of you four."
"Use Fire," Kim said.
"You have already proven you're the one I need, Kim."
Her face twisted.  "Because I can make a person?  I'm never doing that again.  Never.  Never, Forgotten."
"Let me rephrase myself.  I was not speaking of your power.  I could use either you or Fire interchangeably for the things I have planned.  Rather, I was thinking of the fact that, while Fire does not hesitate to create life in order to reach his own ends, you are genuinely remorseful of what you have done.  I believe that you will in no way be tempted to do it again—in one brief afternoon, you have learned restraint."
In one brief afternoon, she had murdered someone.
"What do you want me to do, then?" Kim said.
"Tell no one what you've done, and they will not guess it.  Make the best of Fire as your brother and do not hold it against him that he is a product of your own mind, for, in actuality, he is the same person you killed today."
"So you want Sky's plan to work?" Kim asked.
"Of course," Forgotten said.  "Kim, this is the first mental exercise I've had in eight hundred and forty-five years."
"So we're just an...experiment to you?" Kim felt her chest quiver in a sob.  "I just killed somebody and you don't care?"
"I do care," Forgotten said, his voice softening.  "And I wish I could do something to alleviate your anguish.  Unless you want me to alter your thought patterns, however, my hands are tied."
Kim shook her head.  "I deserve to suffer."
"No you don't."
She frowned and looked up at the speaker.  "How can you say that?"
"I've had a month to study you," Forgotten said.  "I've seen everything, including your every thought.  Believe me when I say no one knows you better than I do, and I don't believe you should suffer for what you did."
Kim lowered her gaze, not believing it.
"What you need to do is look at the larger picture," Forgotten said.  "The overall welfare of the universe.  For, unlike my smuggler friend's lifetime delusions of grandeur, that is currently what we are all working towards.  Think about it this way, Kim.  Which is worse—the fact that you killed a man, of whom an exact copy still exists to continue his behavior patterns—or the inevitable war between Congress and Earth if my plan falls to pieces?  Do you know how many billions of creatures will die if there is a war, Kim?  Whole planets will crumble to dust before Congress yields."
Kim's blurry eyes were fixed on the door.  "Why can't Fire help you, instead of me?"
Forgotten sighed.  "Even if I could get Fire to agree to leave Earth, his character is incompatible with the circumstances I have planned for you.  He grew up in a different environment.  He's arrogant.  His overconfidence—and his tendency to create small insects—would ruin his chances of surviving situations that he would have to face in your stead."
Kim took a shuddering breath and squeezed her eyes shut.  Her world had crumbled around her.  She could never face Sky again without remembering the way Fire's eyes had widened slightly before he disintegrated into a pile of fine white dust.  "Forgotten, do you think I'm a bad person?"
The Geuji did not hesitate.  "No, Kim."
"Why not?" she whimpered, her chest convulsing, wrenching another sob from her throat.
"Because of the way you are feeling right now," Forgotten said.  "Monsters don't feel regret."
She considered that for long moments as she looked down at her grandmother's necklace, sniffling.  She thought of Rri'jan despite herself, remembered how he had worn it like a trophy, how she had taken it back when he was helpless.
"You are not like Rri'jan," Forgotten said gently.  And if it helps, he continued in her mind, I enjoy your company.
She frowned up at the speaker, knowing he had cameras scattered around the ship to watch her, but not knowing which one to look at.  "Why?"
Forgotten hesitated.  After a moment, he said, When you have been alone as long as I have, assaulted on all sides, hunted by the most dangerous minds in the universe, one of the greatest pleasures in life becomes the simple company of someone who doesn't want to use you for their own ends.
"Sky made a bargain with you," Kim reminded him.
And how much, really, do you care about Sky's bargain?
Kim swallowed.
Ultimately, you're here because you care about Sky, not because you want to make the universe dance to your whim, Forgotten said.  You risk your life and happiness to ensure your friend succeeds in the mission that has driven him since he was a child.  Am I wrong?
"No," Kim whispered.
That's what I find so fascinating, Forgotten said.  You're best friends with one of the most powerful minds in the galaxy, and all you want is to help him not feel pain.  He hesitated.  And, in all this time of monitoring you, never once did I feel you long for something material that Sky could provide, but hadn't offered.
Kim was confused.  "I'm sorry, I don't—"
Sky is powerful, Kim.  More so than you realize.  There may come a day when that power must be used to finish what he started.  I want you to promise me you won't hate me if that happens.
Kim squinted at the speaker.  "I'm not following."
Never mind, Forgotten said, much too quickly.  I'm prattling on.  It's not important.  Get some sleep.  The Council will be back at dawn to meet with an executive overseeing a series of Ueshi pleasure-planets and the president of the Jahul Trade Alliance. We'll be bartering for access to lifestones, and I'll want you to witness the discussion.  Then, like a cord getting cut, Forgotten's presence retreated.
#
Verbhan looked up as Fred stepped into the balcony reserved for Representatives and immediately frowned.  Below, the other decks were alive with thousands of viewers, but up here, they were alone.
"What do you want, Human?" Verbhan demanded.  "Don't try to pretend you come here by chance—did Kaj'nol mark you already?  Are you looking for protection?"
"No," Fred said, taking the seat beside Verbhan.  "I came to talk."
Verbhan's sudah began quivering in irritation as another spinning platform of intricate stone artwork slowly slid past their viewing deck.  "I come to these viewings to escape the tedium of politics, Human."
"I don't want to talk about politics," Fred replied.  "I want to talk about something much more interesting.  Your home planet.  Poen.  Do you not collect the souls of your deceased in temples there?"
The pupils of Verbhan's wet brown eyes widened before he contained his confusion.  "We do.  You will never go there, though, human.  No outsider has set foot on Poen in over two million turns, and none will."
"I don't seek entrance," Fred replied.  "I was actually more interested in the souls themselves.  I've heard that sometimes you are unable to return your deceased to Poen?"
Verbhan's eyes watched him carefully, betraying nothing of his thoughts.  "Why do you ask, Human?"
"You are aware that Congress has recently made contact with Earth for the first time in a Sacred Turn."
"Of course."
"While we left them to their punishment, they were forced to think in new and extreme ways to avoid the kreenit.  I believe they have discovered technology that will allow the collection and retention of these souls that now wander aimlessly, unable to return to Poen."
Verbhan snorted, but he was listening.
"This," Fred said, holding out the round yellow gem to Verbhan.  "If applied correctly, can be used as an artificial oorei."
Verbhan took the gem and gave Fred a sharp look.  "You have proof of this?  Or are you simply trying to manipulate my sensibilities, human?"
"I have proof," Fred said. 
"And what machine performs this miracle?" Verbhan demanded.
"No machine," Fred replied.  "The gem itself is the trap.  I will perform a demonstration, if you require it."
"I will most certainly require a demonstration," Verbhan growled, jamming the gem back into Fred's hand.  "The universe has had billions of broken oorei over the millennia.  I will research one and coordinate an illustration—on my terms, Human.  No tricks.  If you fail, you may add my name to the growing list of Representatives seeking your head."
"And if I succeed?"
Verbhan stared at Fred for long moments in silence before saying, "First show me your miracle.  Then we'll talk."
#
Syuri was watching a group of human children move stones with their minds when a civilian ship materialized from the atmosphere above and landed beside Forgotten's scout ship.  Immediately, a second followed it, settling down opposite the first.
Syuri's hackles lifted as he watched the ships power down and complete diagnostics on the planetary air and pressure quality.  Then, almost at the same time, the two doors opened.
Zepwe stepped into the sunlight first, his entire body covered in expensive yeeri-embroidered fabrics.  Unlike most Jahul, Zepwe never walked on all six legs.  Instead, he endured the discomfort of a four-legged waddle at all times, even managing to make it look dignified as he did it.
Zepwe did not look in Syuri's direction as he disembarked, instead turning to the left and immediately entering Forgotten's ship.  His glittering leg rings and necklaces were the last thing Syuri saw before he disappeared in the darkness of the Geuji's domain.
Janufa ab Naahj was much slower in disembarking.  Like all Ueshi, time was unimportant to her.  Probably the only reason she could have arrived on time was if Forgotten had calculated the precise number of weeks she would procrastinate, right down to the hour and the minute, then told her to arrive that far in advance. 
Knowing Janufa, that was probably exactly what Forgotten had done.  Unlike Zepwe, she was not alone, despite her many warnings to that effect.  Dozens of Ueshi poured from the entrance, spreading out over the land like startled Takki.  Syuri felt his face twist in irritation as the Ueshi slowly crept down the gangplank, taking extra time to breathe in the fresh planet smells and examine flowers and small objects her assistants brought to her as slowly made her way to Forgotten's ship.
Syuri rushed up to her, catching the Ueshi before she had a chance to get halfway.  Her assistants scattered, making room for the two Jreet Syuri knew Janufa employed.
Janufa's sharp, liquid blue-green eyes caught his approach before Syuri managed to reach the first rank of Ueshi assistants.  She was glaring at him as he neared, her flowing robes and hundreds of gem-studded piercings making her appear an angry goddess in a field of her devoted followers.
"What do you want, pirate?  Come to repay your loan?"
Syuri thought briefly of the ruvmestin he had stored in his bedroom, then said, "I would, but I don't have the proper denominations with me." 
Janufa laughed, an irritating wet clicking sound.  "How many times have I heard that one, criminal?"
"Perhaps another time."
Janufa snorted.  "I take it Forgotten invited you as well as Zepwe?"
"I've been here two days already," Syuri said.  He grinned at the sudden pallor to her blue-green features.  "A very interesting two days."
"Forgotten invited you before me?"
"No," Syuri said, "I simply got here on time."
"Oh."  Janufa blinked.  "Well.  I was delayed.  So what is it Forgotten wants of us?  I see Zepwe was invited, as well."
"Ask him yourself," Syuri said, "If you haven't already missed the meeting."
Janufa grunted.  "If Forgotten is desperate enough to invite you to this little gathering, he will wait."  She bent down to pluck a blade of grass from the lakeshore.  "What interesting foliage this planet has."
"I'll tell Forgotten you're not interested."  Syuri brushed past her, ignoring the odd, scratching sound in the sand on either side of him as the Jreet not-so-discreetly escorted him away from her.
As soon as Syuri entered the ship, he got a bad taste in his mouth.  Zepwe was sitting on one side of the common room, opposite the humans.  Between them, a huge pile of dirt and sand sat heaped on a blanket, looking for all the world like a Takki waste mound.  Zepwe was scowling at the dirt, his four legs folded under him, his arms crossed over his chest.  As soon as the president of the Trade Alliance saw him, he leapt to his feet.
"You!" Zepwe shouted.  "Forgotten, what is he doing here?!"
"He is insurance," Forgotten said simply.
Zepwe stiffened.  "Insurance?  For what?  You think I would try to double-cross you?"
"No," Forgotten replied, "But I believe you might try to take advantage of the offer I am about to make.  That is why both Syuri and Janufa are here.  To make sure you stick to your end of the bargain."
"What bargain?" Zepwe demanded.  The Alliance president looked rattled, and Syuri could almost see his internal pressure climbing.  Syuri did an inward dance of glee, unable to keep himself from grinning.
Zepwe was not finished.  "Forgotten, you have told me nothing.  You sent a messenger telling me to learn English and take my fastest ship to Earth.  It was on trust alone that I came this far, and yet all I see before me is a pile of dirt and some uncultured barbarians.  Show me something substantial or I am leaving."
"We wait for Janufa," Forgotten said.
Zepwe was given the choice to either leave right there or sit back down and wait.  He sat down.
As they were waiting for the Ueshi, Syuri moved to sit beside Kim, who was staring blankly across the room, clearly not paying attention to the events around her.  For most of the day, she had been drowning his sivvet in unpleasant emotions—mostly shame—and he couldn't for the life of him figure out why.  Forgotten was completely silent on the matter, even going so far as pretending to get 'distracted' when he asked.
But it didn't take an empath to realize something was not right about her.  Her eyes were an off color—almost reddish—and he hadn't managed to get her to say two words the entire day.
"Are you well?" Syuri whispered, settling down beside her.  "You are acting strange."  He hesitated.  "You...feel...strange."  He knew that most species didn't understand the empathic abilities of his kind, but he'd been surprised at how quickly she had assimilated the information.
"I'm fine."  She didn't even look at him.
Syuri leaned back, contemplating her forced body language coupled with her washes of self-hate, wishing he had a Minder's ability to read thoughts.  Later, if she was still ill, he decided he would get to the root of the problem.  He knew an excellent recipe for steamed ferlii spores.
But she probably wouldn't eat ferlii spores, would she?  What does a human like to eat when its feeling under the weather?
Janufa entered the ship ten minutes later, showing not an ounce of remorse for keeping the rest of them waiting. 
"Your attendants stay outside," Forgotten said as soon as she entered.
Janufa gave the gathering a disgusted look.  "This place smells like Jahul."  Still, she motioned her followers to stay behind and stepped inside the room.
"Your Jreet as well," Forgotten said.
The Ueshi made a disgusted sound and nodded, motioning at the door.  Syuri's skin prickled at the sound of scales rustling against metal. 
"All the way out!" Janufa shouted when the rustling stopped before the exit.  "The Geuji needs me for something.  He didn't bring me all this way to kill me." 
Once the Jreet were out, Forgotten shut the door, locking them all inside.  Janufa seemed to see the pile of sand for the first time.  "Dirt?  I came here for dirt?"
"Janufa, Zepwe, allow me to introduce you to your new friends.  Sitting to Janufa's right is Blue Rose.  She is what we call a Minder.  A telepath."
Immediately, Janufa and Zepwe stiffened, and it was clear from their sivvet-biting terror that both of them would have left the room if Forgotten hadn't locked them inside.  Syuri had to hide a grin.
"The male sitting directly beside Blue is Fire.  He is what we call a Maker.  He can manipulate the constitution of matter with his mind."
Neither Zepwe nor Janufa said a word.  Their eyes, though, had sharpened to razors.  Obviously, they knew enough about Forgotten to take him seriously.
"And the female beside Syuri?" Zepwe demanded.
"Inconsequential to you," Forgotten said.  "Before we continue, I would like to make one thing perfectly clear.  Every one of you that I brought here today has the potential to make vast sums of money in the bargain I am about to lay out.  Any deviation from the rules I am about to issue, however, will result in you gaining nothing and quite possibly will end your careers.  You have my word on that."
Zepwe and Janufa had the sense to nod with utter seriousness, waiting.
"Here are my rules," Forgotten said.  "Rule One.  You will only sell the product for one hundred credits apiece."
Both Zepwe and Janufa frowned. 
"You brought us here to discuss something with so little value?" Zepwe demanded.  "And here I thought you had discovered a wonder drug."
"I have," Forgotten said.  "Better than peysh, both in duration and its utter lack of side effects.  And Rule One is that you will sell it for one hundred credits a dose."
"Better than peysh?" Janufa said, sounding skeptical.  "And you want us to sell it for a hundred?  Have you lost your mind?"
"No.  Rule Two.  We will provide you with as much of the product as you need and you will sell it to as many citizens as possible, as fast as possible.  When you run out of product, return to Earth and we will resupply you.  You may keep all profits you make.  All we ask in return is that you deliver to us large quantities of high-mass materials, such as stone and lead, and leave them in space orbiting Earth."
"How big is the product?" Zepwe asked.
"It varies, but they can be smaller than the size of a standard ruvmestin unit," Forgotten said.
Zepwe and Janufa leaned forward, their confusion showing, but their merchant sides calculating the profits of that exchange to be many times what they were used to.
"Rule Three.  You will tell no one, not even your closest advisors, your lovers, your friends, of what takes place in this room.  If you do, I will find out about it and I will cut you out of the loop."
"Understood," Janufa said.  Zepwe nodded.
"Rule Four.  As tempted as you will be to charge more than one hundred credits per dose, you will only charge one hundred credits per dose."
"You plan on raising the price as soon as everyone is hooked," Zepwe said, nodding with approval.
"No.  We will never raise the price."
Zepwe and Janufa glanced at each other in confusion.
"If it is really as good as you say it is," Janufa said, "Then why charge so little?  We would make more profit if we charged a reasonable rate."
"I am not looking to make a profit," Forgotten said.  "The profits you make will be a byproduct of my own mission.  As I already said, we will supply you with however much of the drug you can sell—however much you can sell.  All we ask in return is space debris from outside this system delivered to Earth's orbit."
"I admit I am confused," Janufa said, "But it is hard to argue with those terms."
"Now, in case you hadn't already deduced the reason, I brought three of you to the meeting for the simple reason that no one person knows the true origin of the product we are about to show you.  If you follow my rules, you will see more wealth in a week than you would have seen in a hundred turns.  If any one of you break my rules, you will be cut off from my supply and the other two will have full access instead."
"We will not break the rules," Zepwe said.  "We are not stupid, Forgotten."
"I know.  You wouldn't be here if you were.  Janufa, sit down beside Zepwe, if you will.  Fire is about to begin his demonstration.  Once you are seated, observe the pile of debris in the middle of the room."
"Wait," Zepwe said.  "I want to feel the dirt first."  Without waiting for permission, he stood and examined the sand, allowing it to fall through his fingers.
"Well?" Janufa asked.
"It is sand," Zepwe said, returning to his seat.  "Non-artificial."
"Dug from the beach outside the ship," Forgotten agreed.  "Now watch what Fire does to it."
Janufa sat down and did not even bother to straighten her robes as she stared intently at the pile.  Even Syuri felt his eyes drawn to it, his skin growing damp with nervous excretions.  He felt himself gasp with the others as the dirt condensed and then suddenly collapsed into a thousand multi-colored gemstones that tinkled down the sides of the pile and onto the floor of the ship.
This time, Janufa was the first to reach the pile and take a fistful of gems in one small, webbed hand.  Her blue-green eyes were wide.  "Did I really see that?" she asked.
"Fire can change the atomic structure of matter," Forgotten said.  "Any matter."
Janufa's eyes widened, obviously contemplating how much she could sell the Human for on the auction block.
"Even living matter," Syuri added, glaring at her.  He ran a finger across his throat, holding her gaze.
Janufa blinked, then allowed her fistful of gemstones to fall back to the pile in the center of the ship.  "I take it Rule Five is that we are not to try and claim your operation as our own," Janufa said.
"That is a given," Forgotten replied.  "Meet Blue Rose."
At that, Janufa and Zepwe stiffened, their heads twisting to stare at the elderly Human beside the door.  Syuri felt himself smirking as the Minder began an inner dialogue that left the two merchants looking deathly pale.
"Blue is only one of many of her kind," Forgotten said.  "She can read minds, transmit thoughts, and instill raw emotions into a physical vessel.  It is this final ability that concerns you."
"Don't forget that she can kill with a thought," Syuri said.  "Half this planet can, in case you have any ideas."
Janufa's eyes widened.  "The experiments survived the punishment?"
"Survived and have grown in power," Forgotten agreed.
"Congress will destroy them," Zepwe muttered, glancing from Blue to Fire and back.
"That is what I am trying to prevent," Forgotten said.  "That is my mission, even though I doubt Congress would emerge victorious from such a bloodbath."
"You think they can win?" Janufa whispered.
"I know they can," Forgotten said.  "But it will not become an issue—and therefore you are guaranteed uninterrupted flow of product—if Congress does not find out about them."
Zepwe glanced at the gemstones on the floor.  "What product?  I see a few diamonds, some emeralds.  Even if they weren't artificial, they wouldn't be worth much for long.  People do not become addicted to gemstones, Forgotten.  We'd flood the market."
"Like I said earlier, Blue Rose can instill thought and emotion into inanimate objects," Forgotten said.  "Right now, she is working on putting experiences into the stones before you.  That is your addiction, my friends."
"Stones?" Janufa said, her delicate, blue-green brow dipping inward.  "You want us to sell stones?"
"Experiences," Forgotten said.  "Color-coded by type of gemstone.  You and Blue will have to work out your coding system, but just for instance, topaz can stand for feelings of extreme euphoria whereas emeralds can be more amorous experiences."
"They are ready," Blue Rose said softly.
"Experience one for yourselves," Forgotten said.  "Before you do, though, I must warn you to choose wisely—first contact with skin releases the stored telepathic energy.  Unless the emotions are permanently attuned to the stone, they are one-use-only and all will discharge at once, possibly overloading your system and killing you."
Both the merchants' eyes lit up.  "They can be made permanent?"
"They won't," Forgotten said.  "Not until my plan is complete.  Then you may barter with them to make whatever you wish."
"Why are you getting involved?" Janufa demanded.  "If Zepwe and I are set to make billions, what will you be making, Forgotten?"
"Friends," Forgotten said.
Zepwe blinked, then laughed.  "Very well.  I certainly don't expect you to reveal all your secrets, Forgotten.  Who are we to complain if you make more than us in this endeavor?"
"I will be making no profit," Forgotten said.  "In fact, I've already depleted half my funds setting my plot into motion."
"Half your funds?!"  Janufa glanced at the humans, tiny gems glittering from her hundreds of piercings.  "I don't understand.  You always make a profit."
"Not this time," Forgotten said.  "They will be paying my wages in a different currency."
"They hired you?" Janufa gasped.
"They partnered with me," Forgotten said.  "Our fates are tied together.  Now test the stones.  Make sure the dosages are to your liking, then we may begin setting up distribution systems."
"You said the drug was addicting," Janufa said.  "How addictive is it?"
"There are no chemical dependencies that develop, though if the lifestones are used too often, it may become difficult for users to elicit an original emotional response to outside stimuli.  For instance, if a loved one dies, they may have to use a lifestone to feel sadness."
Syuri glanced at the wall Forgotten rested behind, frowning.  Was that a brief pulse of...guilt?  It had only been for an instant, but he could've sworn Forgotten had been feeling excruciating guilt about something.
"One use is utterly harmless, however," Forgotten insisted.
Zepwe glanced at Janufa.   "Cheers."  He reached forward and snatched up the closest stone.
Immediately, his eyes grew wide and a look of shock spread across his face, quickly overtaken by pleasure.  He collapsed into a relaxed, lubrication-oozing pile, grinning like a love struck fool.  Syuri snickered.
Janufa eyed the Trade Alliance president, making no motion to touch a stone.  Then she glanced at Syuri.  "You first."
"Syuri has already sampled a stone," Forgotten said.  "He was splayed out much like Zepwe not two days ago."
Janufa sniffed, her huge, liquid eyes fixed on Zepwe.  "I make it a point not to use the products I sell at my establishments."
Syuri snorted.  "Liar.  You're an unabashed hedonist.  You probably have six different chemical dependencies you have to appease on a given day."
"And I'd hate to add another," Janufa growled.  "Remember, Syuri, you still owe me six hundred thousand.  You're lucky I haven't hired a collector to track you down."
"We both know he couldn't find me."
"That depends on which collector I hire, wouldn't it, Jahul?"  She gave him a fierce smile, and his sivvet picked up a rush of fury.  "Not all of them specialize in bringing back money to repay debts."
"Syuri's debt with you is henceforth cancelled," Forgotten said. 
Janufa twitched.  "You're siding with the filthy parasite?"
"The money you make from this transaction will more than pay for any damages he's caused you, and if you still care a turn from now, when this is all over, I will pay what he owes from what remains of my stores."
Syuri blinked, stunned at Forgotten's offer.
"Very well," the Ueshi executive said.  "Six hundred thousand.  Delivered in full to my accounts on Preejan one turn from now."
"We will have this conversation again in a turn," Forgotten said.  "As I said, if you still care at that time, you will have your funds."
Janufa narrowed her eyes at Syuri.  "I will always care."  Without another word, she gingerly chose a glimmering sapphire from the pile in front of her.  Her huge, liquid blue eyes closed in pleasure and she slowly lowered herself to the floor and rearranged her robes around her, retaining much more dignity in the process than Zepwe had.
She's better at getting stoned, Syuri thought.  Must be all the practice.
"Syuri, we need to talk."  Forgotten's voice was soft, so as not to interrupt the two on the floor.
Syuri pushed himself to his feet and went to his room.  "Yes?" he said, shutting the door behind him.
"Once Zepwe and Janufa begin distribution, I will need you to escort Kim to Grakkas."
Syuri choked.  "Grakkas?  The Grakkas?"
"I don't believe she is ready to utilize the full potential of her abilities, so until she is, we will have to accommodate.  I don't want her overly strained when she begins work.  Closing the distance between her and her subject is the best way to alleviate her burden."
Suddenly, Forgotten's words came back to Syuri and he felt all the air ooze from his body in shock.  "You're having her destroy the ruvmestin.  On Grakkas."  His voice was a hoarse whisper, barely audible even to him.
"On Grakkas, Yeejor, and Pelipe."
Syuri was so light-headed he thought he was about to pass out.  "All of it?"
"Yes."
The only three ruvmestin-producing planets in Congress.  Civilization would crumble.
"Is that such a good idea?"  Syuri managed.
"Remember who you are talking to, Syuri."
"Yes, but—"  Syuri swallowed hard.  "It's ruvmestin."
"Think of it this way," Forgotten said.  "Your crystal ball is about to be worth a lot more."
"It won't be worth anything to me if I'm dead.  Forgotten, do you realize how hard it is to get onto Grakkas?  It's run by the military.  They don't let anybody on or off but Congies.  I don't have a tag, Forgotten."
"Easily remedied.  Join the military."
Syuri stared at the wall.  "Are you serious?"
"Of course not.  Syuri, I have faith in you.  You've gotten onto Grakkas before."
Syuri felt his eyes widening.  "That's what this is about.  That's why you picked me, you conniving fungus!  Because of Grakkas!"
"Actually, there were several factors involved.  But yes, Grakkas worked in your favor."
"In my favor?  Forgotten, you're offering me a death sentence and you're acting like it's the solution to all my worldly problems."
"Ultimately, death is the solution to all your worldly problems."
Syuri sputtered at the amusement hitting his sivvet from the Geuji behind the wall.  "It's impossible," he growled.  "I can't get onto one ruvmestin planet, much less all three."
"It isn't impossible.  You've already done it."
"I didn't get onto Grakkas!  I got off of it.  I defected.  My life was on the line if they found me."
"Then it should work out perfectly.  Your life will be on the line if they find you this time, too."
"No."  He was actually trying not to panic, now, realizing the he wouldn't have a choice, one way or another.  "Find some other sucker to die for you."
"Syuri.  Take your nutrients and think."
"Damn my nutrients!" Syuri cried.  "You tricked me, Forgotten!"
"Just humor me."
Narrowing his eyes, Syuri filled a canister with liquid brainpower and drank it as quickly as possible.  He endured the head-rush as they buoyed his system, then turned back to the wall.  "Answer is still no."
"Consider it carefully a moment.  You will not be a scared, desperate soldier seeking a way to survive.  You will have Kim with you."
"Kim?  The biped I'm supposed to protect?!"
"With the proper training, Syuri, a Maker can walk through walls.  Disarm enemies.  Disable security systems."
Syuri found himself waffling as he considered it.  "No."
"What if I said the reward I plan for you is greater than that of Zepwe and Janufa's combined?"
"I'd say you're lying," Syuri replied.
"How would you like to be able to live a regular life?  Have time for leisure?  Not constantly be on the run?"
Syuri snorted.  "I defected.  My genetic code is on their treason list until I die."
"And yet you have managed to escape them thus far. One thousand and sixteen turns, Syuri.  That alone proves you're the one I need to help me."
"It proves I have a Geuji for a friend," Syuri growled.  "It proves nothing about my abilities to get onto highly secure government planets in the name of espionage."
"Don't think I do not know where my ships come from, Syuri."
Syuri winced.  "I'd hoped you hadn't noticed."  It was easier and much less expensive to acquire ships that met his needs from Congressional shipyards than it was to steal some merchant cruiser and outfit it to Forgotten's specifications.
"Stolen directly from the Congressional fleet.  From their very own shipyards.  Past security systems that make Grakkas look like child's play."
"You and I both know that isn't true," Syuri muttered.  "Grakkas has a Class Nine security rating.  The shipyards are only Class Seven."
"You're already currently the only defected soldier on the books who hasn't yet been caught," Forgotten said.  "Wouldn't you like to add to your resume the fact you broke into the three most highly secure areas in the universe and lived to tell about it?"
"Actually, no," Syuri said.  "My reputation does well enough on its own."
"How would you like to see your family, Syuri?"
Syuri flinched. 
"They haven't seen you in six turns."
"Three," Syuri said.  "I slipped past the Peacemakers assigned to them right after selling you your defective ship.  Used all the money from that deal to bribe one of the agents.  He only gave me twenty tics."  Syuri shuddered.  "Saw my grandbabies, though."
"Earth can accommodate them.  Blue has already offered to protect them, regardless of whether or not you help us."
Syuri felt his limbs trembling.  "Truly?"
"I made arrangements to have them moved before I first approached you about coming to Earth," Forgotten said.  "I bought the Peacemakers off and hired a ship.  They're on their way now."
Syuri made a little sound in his throat.  "You bought off a contingent of Peacemakers?  How much did that cost, Forgotten?"
"You wanted to know why half of my reserves were gone?  That's why."
Syuri stared at the wall.
"I know you've told me in the past you could handle it, but I wanted to ensure nothing happened to them once the pieces were put into play.  I wouldn't have forgiven myself."
Syuri felt a wash of embarrassment.  Forgotten had offered a hundred times to put his family somewhere safe, back when it would've been easy and the Peacemakers weren't monitoring them, and Syuri, proud as he was, had always turned him down, thinking he could take care of the situation himself...until he couldn't, and it was too late.
Into the silence that followed, Forgotten said, "Your family will be safe on Earth whatever your decision, Syuri.  Don't feel pressured into—"
"I'll help you, miserable corpse rot," Syuri muttered.  "You've already made it so that even my Huouyt honor demands I do nothing less.  The Jreet take your soul, Forgotten.  I should've known from the beginning I'd have no choice in the matter."
"You're my friend, Syuri," Forgotten said, on a sivvet-warming wash of compassion.  "You will always have a choice."
Syuri felt a wave of affection for his old friend.  "I know."
Forgotten hesitated.  Then, almost timidly, he said, "Then you'll go to Grakkas?"
"I've gotta admit," Syuri chuckled.  "All these years away...  I always wondered what they've done with the place."







CHAPTER 27: Politics
Proceedings were almost over for the day, the entire Regency restless to be finished, when the Bajna Representative turned on his podium and stood on three long, jointed black legs, his six arms splayed around him in an impressive, writhing halo. 
Fred sat up immediately.  The Bajna were notorious for never speaking unless asked a direct question, so Representative Keerstan's unprompted interruption was all that more poignant.
As Keerstan scanned the Regency, his six iridescent, blue-green eyes flashed.  A series of pops and clicks echoed across the room, followed by the Watcher's dutiful translation at Fred's podium. 
"Despite what you all believe, I am not stupid."
The entire Regency fell into utter silence.
Allowing that to settle in, Keerstan went on disdainfully, "I know that, for some reason, a plot has been lowered over my head to oust me from the Trade chair, despite my undisputable success in balancing out the trade inefficiencies of the universe and maintaining fairness for all."
Fred could barely hear the Bajna over the pounding of his heart.  Had Keerstan somehow used his economic genius to piece together what Sky and Forgotten were doing?
"My people are creatures of few words—we seek facts and figures to forge our world.  Still, it has not gone unnoticed to me that Kaj'nol has generously offered me the chance to retire every session for the past two rotations."
"So you are accepting?" the Huouyt Representative demanded.
"Two rotations of hassling and haranguing, cajoling and coercing, things as childish as notes slipped under my door, as inane as the passing comment overheard at dinner—all of this has made me wonder if perhaps the Regency has lost its mind."  He paused again.  "...or forgotten its history."
When no one spoke, Keerstan continued, "Congress went five hundred and twenty-eight thousand turns without the Bajna.  In those turns, economies fluctuated wildly, their death throes causing civilizations to crumble, planets to be abandoned, whole societies to starve."
"And you've served us well," Kaj'nol said, sounding irritated.  "Perhaps, though, it is time to let another rule the Trade Chair.  A million turns of Bajnan Representatives overseeing trade seems to be an imbalance in itself, don't you think?"
Keerstan clacked his mandibles and ignored the Huouyt Representative as if he hadn't spoken.  "When Congress found the Bajna, we were a blessing you had not foreseen.  You gave us the one and only pardon to the Draft, our only duty within your culture to oversee your economies.  You sent a Bajna to every planet, every city.  And you sent one to Congress."
Keerstan glared out over the Regency seats, his large round eyes almost glowing with irritation.  "Immediately, your economy stabilized.  Every planet, even the furthest and most remote, began to prosper.  Congressional ships never ran out of fuel, soldiers never went without food.  You had so much surplus that you were able to build Koliinaat—the greatest achievement the universe has yet known.  Aliphei can attest to that, if you are too lazy to research it."
Up in his seat, the big blue form of the First Citizen shifted, watching Keerstan with increasing interest.
"For over one and a half million turns, Congress has had a Bajna at its economic helm.  Every episode where a Bajna was not in control of Trade, economies broke apart and whole fleets were scrapped to cope with fluctuating supplies.  Twenty-three times, you forced the Trade chairman to give up his seat, and not once in all those times did it take more than ten turns for you to realize your mistake and beg for us to return."
The entire Regency waited in silence, the tiny hairs on Fred's back standing on end from the tension of the place.
"So now, my conniving, backstabbing comrades, I will say the words you have all been waiting to hear these last few rotations.  I am tired of your stupid, small-minded remarks.  I am sick of listening to snide comments about my senility.  I am disgusted with your pathetic attempts to charm and sway me.  I am stepping down from the Trade Council chair."
"Representative Keerstan," Aliphei said suddenly.
The entire Regency shuddered at the sound of the First Citizen's voice.
"What?" Keerstan demanded, clacking his black mandibles in irritation.
"Perhaps you should give it another day.  Allow your words to settle in.  Then we shall see who dares bring up your incompetence again."  As he said it, his red-eyed gaze shifted to the Huouyt representative, whose zora moved in a fearful wave over his skin.
"No," Keerstan said.  "My twenty-three predecessors could have kept the chair, should they have wanted to.  However, the time comes every few millennia that my people must make a point, and so I will allow them to squabble over my seat like the rabid parasites they are.  I resign.  Effective immediately."  Keerstan sat down, his three-jointed arms settling beneath him with finality.
The Regency was silent only a moment before Representative Kragkhen said, "The Regency hears you, Representative Keerstan, and your resignation is noted.  A preliminary candidate vote will take place at the next session."
"I would like to put forth a motion denying Keerstan's abdication," the First Citizen said.  "He has made his point."
From his seat, Keerstan made a loud, ear-piercing chitter.  The podium in front of Fred translated, "None of them will second it, Aliphei.  You waste your breath."
And, as the First Citizen scanned the Regency seats in silence, Fred realized he was right—every single Representative had either been bought by Forgotten or was too afraid of the Grand Six and their aspirations to step forward.  Aliphei made a disgusted snort and ordered the Watcher to take him away.
The battle had begun.
#
Fred returned to his chamber that evening quaking with excitement.  He began walking even before the Watcher had finished transporting him.
"Sky!" he cried, locating the blue-eyed blond lounging on his sofa, flipping through an ancient artifact of Earth—a collector's edition of Playboy from a long-extinct printing press that had been one of Fred's favorites before Judgement, the model on the cover a long-dead woman who had been his boyhood crush, before Congress.  The hermetically-sealed packaging was lying on floor, torn and disfigured.
Despite the fact it was one of his most treasured possessions, Fred yanked it out of Sky's hands and tossed it across the room to ensure his attention.  "It worked!  Keerstan stepped down!  The whole of Koliinaat is in an uproar.  Verbhan and Genbiraa almost came to blows and Kragkhen threatened to kill Kaj'nol on the floor of the Regency.  The Watcher had to send half the Representatives to their rooms and ban the other half from meeting with them for six hours.  What should I do?"
Sky squinted up at him with his single eye.  Sleep.
Fred blinked.  "Sleep?"
In his corner, Sjilak perked up and glanced at the telepath.  "He's altering their thoughts?  The fool."
"Now is our chance," Fred said, becoming desperate.  "The Trade Council will vote tomorrow morning.  It only has seven candidacies for nomination, if the former Chair even decides to nominate.  Keerstan probably won't—he was pissed.  That leaves six.  I've got to secure one of them before morning."
You will sleep, Sky said.
Watching them, Sjilak laughed—a thin, piping sound that left Fred's nerves on edge.  "Once again, the telepath who can't even dress himself is pushing Fate."
"What does that mean?" Fred asked.
"He's going to modify the vote," Sjilak said.  "In your favor."
Fred blinked.  "He is?"  His blood began thundering in his ears.  "I thought he wasn't going to do that."
Sky said nothing and leaned back into the sofa, his eye half-closed as if near sleep.  I hate Koliinaat.  There are so many voices here.  It's hard to get good rest.
Fred scowled, losing a bit of his excitement.  "I thought you weren't going to force them to do anything, Sky."
"When all else fails," Sjilak scoffed, "Take the easy way out."
Fred spun to face the Trith.  "Tell me how the Trade Council is going to vote as it stands right now," Fred said.
"You think I can tell you that?" Sjilak laughed.  "Ask your pet telepath.  He's mucking up the future as we speak."
"Sky?" Fred demanded.
Sky did not even show a flicker of interest, almost as if he had not heard.  He looked, for all intents and purposes, as someone who was fast asleep.  Realizing he was going to get nothing else from the telepath, Fred went to research the Bajna and Congressional economic theory.
Just sleep, Sky interrupted, when Fred was reading about the catastrophic trade imbalances that happened the last time the Bajna abdicated the Trade Chair, twenty-seven thousand turns prior.  The skirmishes and famine and conflict that followed had been what instigated the end of the 877th Age of the Jahul and ushered in the 2299th Age of the Ueshi.  Whole planets had been abandoned in the plague and resource inequities that had followed.
Wiping sweat from his head, Fred said, "I'm not sure taking a Bajna off the Trade Chair was such a good idea.  An entire planet died because Congress couldn't afford the fuel to get them a single shipload of basic medical supplies.  Dhasha killed off an entire Ueshi Ground Force because they weren't being given rations and were forced to land on a Dhasha-owned planet to scavenge for food.  There were major xenocides in every sector.  Two single-planet species were exterminated.  Congress didn't have the stability to protect the minorities from their more dangerous and numerous competitors."
Resting now will serve you well tomorrow.
"Humans are a single-planet species," Fred noted nervously.  "And it happens every time the Bajna step down.  Those little guys that need Congressional protection the most are the first to get destroyed.  And Humans are prime candidates for Dhasha harvest fleets.  There's actually a queue of princes in line to take slaves on Earth, in case we're not accepted back into Congress after Judgement.  We'll have no protections if the government becomes unstable—"
In reply, Sky got off the couch, walked over to him, and shut down the console displaying history.  His one blue eye was grumpy.  "Sleep," Sky warned, "or I'll make you sleep.  I can't rest with your mind running around like a terrified chicken."
Looking up into the telepath's glare, Fred swallowed and got up from his desk to go find something else to do.  Still, it took Fred a couple hours to wind down, playing cribbage with the Trith before bed.  When he finally did lie down, expecting an anxious night of tossing and turning, he felt the telepath brush his mind almost distractedly and he immediately passed out.
The next morning, Fred was probably the only refreshed face amongst the gathering.  Everyone else had been up all night bartering, struggling to secure nominations from the six remaining members of the Trade Council. 
As soon as Fred appeared in the Regency, he was overwhelmed by the sheer number of onlookers.  Each assigned Regency seat was filled, and the nine-person viewing area around each seat was packed with members of the member species.  The entire body of Congress had appeared to watch the nominations, with assistants standing in for those Representatives who could not reach Koliinaat in time.  The Regency was a roar of conversation, and the buzz of excitement disguised ambitious designs as sharp as razors.
The seven seats of the Trade Council were projected in a line at the center of Regency's sphere.  All were filled except for the Bajna Representative's.
Fred scanned the remaining Trade seats.  All six were filled with powerful species, with the Ooreiki, the Jreet, the Ueshi, and the Jahul all making an appearance.  Besides them, there were the big, shaggy, tusked form of the First Citizen Aliphei and the much smaller orange body of Trosska Representative Yobrial—a hardy, burrowing creature similar to an armored mole.  Though neither aggressive nor domineering, the Trosska were quietly responsible for most mining operations around the universe, and thus were like the Bajna in their having an indisputable place on the Council.
As soon as the First Citizen switched on his podium, all chatter of the room stopped.
"There are only five nominations to be cast for the Chair today," Aliphei said.  "Keerstan refused to nominate before his departure and I will be abstaining, as I believe this is a mistake."
The clamor that followed rivaled the noise inside a Jahul market.  Without another word, Aliphei sat down, relinquishing the podium to the rest of the Trade Council.
"Aside from Aliphei and Keerstan, I am the most senior member of the Council," Yobrial said in what sounded like a series of pig grunts before it was translated.  "I nominate Kaj'nol for Chair."
"Please," Verbhan said.  "At least have the self-respect to nominate yourself.  We all know that anyone who does otherwise has been bought.  For the record, I nominate myself for Trade Commission Chair.  The Ooreiki are nothing if not honorable." 
"You go out of turn," Yobrial muttered irritably.  "Daviin is next."
"I abstain," the Jreet said.
Several species groaned, and Fred's heart began to pound.  Only the Jahul and the Ueshi remained, and both were eager to gain more power for their species.  If Sky modified their thoughts, all of Congress would know it for what it was—they would never willingly throw away their votes.
"And the Ueshi?" Yobrial asked.
"I vote for Kragkhen," Genbiraa said.
"Wonderful!" Verbhan snapped.  "That is just what we need—the Dhasha running trade.  In a year we'll all be eating Takki and digging holes in the dirt to survive!  Retract your vote you fool."
"Watch yourself, Ooreiki," Kragkhen snapped.  "The Dhasha are always willing to add another species to our menu."
"Please," Verbhan scoffed.  "Putting you in charge is ludicrous.  We might as well give kreenit wings and set them loose on Koliinaat."
"And Rakken?" Yobrial asked, turning to the Jahul Representative.
"I nominate myself," Rakken said.  "The Jahul will make a fine replacement for the Bajna."
"Right," Genbiraa snapped, her blue head crest glittering with gold and ruvmestin piercings as it betrayed her anger. "Because that worked so well the last time your species won the Trade Chair."  She flicked her blue-green fingers disgustedly.  "A joke."
"At least I didn't sell my vote to the Dhasha," Rakken snapped.  "Truly?  The world can see straight through your nomination, Ueshi.  How much did he pay you for your vote?  A system or two?  Something to turn into more useless pleasure planets?"
"The Jahul are pirates and scammers," Genbiraa said, ignoring him.  "We'd be better off with Kragkhen.  He won't use stolen money to con the rest of the universe into thinking he's respectable, as the Jahul have done."
"You're right," Verbhan sneered.  "He'll never be respectable and he doesn't care.  At least Rakken is open with his ambitions."  Verbhan, who had always backed his Ueshi counterpart in every vote, was now openly hostile, his sudah fluttering wildly.  "What did Kragkhen pay you, Genbiraa?"
"He didn't have to pay me a credit," Genbiraa snapped.  "I'd vote for a Dhasha over an Ooreiki any day."  The claim made a good portion of the Regency gasp as every Representative fought surprise.  Even Aliphei stiffened at the news of a schism between the Ooreiki and Ueshi peoples.
"Then you wasted your vote," Verbhan spat, "because I will make sure he never gains the chair."
"I can say the same for you, Ooreiki," Kragkhen snapped.
"Silence," Aliphei interrupted.  "Onlookers are not allowed to speak.  We've heard the nominations.  Will there be any amendments to the vote?"
"Perhaps."
Daviin languidly stretched himself out, until his diamond-shaped head hovered six feet above the others'.  "Representative Mullich, using Earth as an example, what can you tell the gathered assemblage of the importance of interstellar trade?  That is, after all, what this Council oversees and what we are here to protect."
Fred froze.
The Regency erupted with a confused clash of alien voices.  Fred found himself suddenly in the spotlight, his podium on, his every motion and every whisper transmitted to the rest of Congress.
"What are you doing, Jreet?" Kaj'nol demanded, his pale breja coursing over his squid-shaped body in irritated waves.
"Making a point," Daviin said.  "Continue, Mullich."
Fred cleared his throat, not knowing where to start.  "When Congress discovered Earth, it was still a Class II civilization—it was beyond the agricultural and city-building stage, but it still hadn't mastered interstellar travel.  Once Congressional trading ships began arriving, however, new technologies sprang up overnight.  Society and culture developed overnight.  Earth reached a Class IV civilization in only a few turns."
"And once trade was cut off?" Daviin prodded.
"What does this have to do with our vote?" Verbhan demanded.
"Once trade cut off after Judgement, Earth had no means to recover.  Cities that had come to depend upon Congressional materials suddenly had no supply.  Earth's civilization had begun to shatter months before the Army arrived with kreenit to finish it off.  Without plasma and ruvmestin sources, our economy would have imploded even if Congress had never taken a hand in it.  We would have devolved back into a Class II, if not a Class I."
"And what did this teach you about trade?" Daviin insisted.
Fred swallowed.  "It is very, very important."
"Finally."  Daviin lowered himself back to his specialized platform.  "Someone who understands this seat represents our very livelihoods, not just a play for power.  I nominate Fred Mullich."
The Regency exploded in outraged shouts.  Through it all, Daviin merely closed his yellow eyes and pretended to sleep—or slept, since Fred would have credited the Jreet with nerves of steel at that point.
"I move to reject Daviin's nomination," Kaj'nol said.  "I'd rather see him abstain than endure this ludicrousness."
"And I," Verbhan said.  "He's throwing his nomination away as it is."
Finally, above the din that followed, Aliphei's voice shouted, "Daviin can nominate whomever he wants.  I do not see how his choice is any more unworthy than the rest of your nominations, as only Keerstan is equal to the task."
"His homeworld does not even register as a Class I civilization," Kaj'nol snapped.  "His species only has one planet.  Any trade they do will be from the back of a pack animal.  This is ridiculous."
Daviin sat up suddenly, facing the Huouyt with the full force of his yellow stare.  "More ridiculous than a Huouyt on the Trade chair?  What trading do you do, Kaj'nol, other than that of people's lives?  This is another conquest for you, not a role to be filled.  I would give my vote to someone who understands the consequences of abusing or neglecting the chairmanship.  Who better to do that than the representative of Earth?"
"Humanity is an unknown with limited intellectual capacity," Genbiraa said.  "Hardly the type of species to run the Trade Council."
"Or precisely the type of species we need to run it," Daviin retorted.  "With power-hungry parasites like the Dhasha and the Huouyt scrambling to take it, it will be refreshing to have a smaller power presiding."
"Such a weakling species could easily be swayed by outside powers," Yobrial interjected.  "We need self-sustaining cultures holding seats on the Council."
Verbhan snorted.  "That didn't stop you from selling out to the Huouyt."  The Ooreiki stood and made a dismissive wave.  "Let the Jreet make his protest and be done with it.  Our nominations are submitted.  The Regency will decide."
"These are your candidates," Aliphei said, once more taking the podium.  In a line before the Trade Councilmen, the Watcher projected five Representatives' faces.  Fred felt the tiny hairs on his neck react as he saw his own face amongst them, a contender for powers greater than any Human before him.
"Examine the candidates' biographies and species' traits closely," Aliphei said.  "You have three rotations until the final vote.  Go to your home planets, meet with your constituents, and return to Kolinaat ready to elect a new Trade chair."
At that, the Regency began to roll in a wave of motion as Aliphei, Verbhan, and Genbiraa left.
Fred was still staring at his face in the lineup of candidates long after the rest of the Regency had departed.
#
"How is Verbhan going to vote on the next ballot?"
"No."  Sjilak's voice was bored and irritated.
Fred made a mark on his notepad.  "What about Keerstan?"
Sjilak rolled his unnatural black eyes.  "No."
"Genbiraa?"
"Yes."
"Yes?"  Fred frowned.  "Why yes?  The new factories would benefit the Ueshi almost as much as the Ooreiki."
"How in the Jreet hells would I know, human?!  All I know is she'll vote yes!  Ask Sky the reasons for it."
"Genbiraa will vote opposite of Verbhan on anything right now," Sky said.  "If Verbhan decided to support Kragkhen, she would do everything in her power to see that he lost."
"Hmm.  We can use this."  Fred turned back to Sjilak.  "What about Rakken?"
Sjilak made a disgusted sound and crossed his tiny arms.  "You and I both know this vote is inconsequential.  Come back to me with something important, when you're not just looking for entertainment."
"I'm checking your accuracy," Fred said.
Sjilak snorted and closed his eyes.
Fred was going to press him when the Watcher said, "Representative Mullich, Representative Orbihl would like to meet in your chambers.  Will you admit him?"
Fred shot a panicked glance at the Trith and the one-eyed human telepath sitting in opposite corners of his room.  "No.  No I will not.  Tell him I'm about to go out to eat.  Terra Exotics.  He can meet me there if he wishes."
"As you desire, Representative.  Would you like me to send you there now?"
"Please," Fred said.  He would welcome the chance to get out of the room, away from the constant bickering of the two numbingly powerful creatures who had been trapped in his chambers for weeks already, with nothing to entertain them but cribbage and priceless Playboys.
He felt a brief flash of nothingness and the scenery changed to holographic mountains and trees with wisps of clouds brushing the canopy, a virtual rainforest.
An Ueshi server materialized from the trees and bowed deeply when he saw Fred, his hundreds of piercings tinkling as the metal loops jingled against each other.  "Representative Mullich.  Such an honor to see you again.  Will it be your regular?"
"Hello, Wivan," Fred said, recognizing his usual server.  "Yes, that will do nicely.  And I'll need a table for two.  Representative Orbihl will be close behind."  As he spoke, the tall, lean Ayhi appeared, his coal-black skin seeming to drink the light and change it into patterns of red and purple that glowed over his skin in mind-bending, zebra-stripe waves.  His missile-shaped head located Fred immediately.
"Good evening, Representative Mullich," Orbihl said in its soft whisper.  "I am grateful you would meet with me."
"The honor is mine, Ayhi."  Orbihl's black proboscis unfurled from the roll under its head, and Fred held out a hand for the two fingers at the end to reach out and explore.  "What can I do for you?"
The Ueshi turned and led them deeper into the rainforest, seating them at a table hidden from view behind the root system of a gigantic tree.  They sat down and the Ayhi ordered a complex, six-part meal that Fred had never heard of.  Then their server departed.
"As you know, the Ayhi are not the most aggressive species in Congress," Orbihl said in his whispery voice.  His six tiny red eyes watched Fred without pupils.  "Several times, we have shaped and colonized planets, only to have the Huouyt build cities beside ours and take them from us when they go before the Claims Board."
Fred frowned.  "You have a claims issue?"
"Three of them," the Ayhi said.
"The Huouyt?" Fred asked.
Orbihl nodded.  "Two—Iop and Riben—have been ready for deeding for thirty turns now.  The last one—Pitrew—is a week away.  We have delayed taking our cases before the Claims board because we knew your predecessor would have bowed to the Huouyt demands like the coward he was.  We feel you would give us much more equitable treatment."
Fred watched the Ayhi carefully, confused.  "You would defy the Huouyt?"
Orbihl fell into a silence, his six tiny eyes closing and his proboscis retracting back under his head.  Finally, he whispered, "You are a dead man, Mullich.  I can share your fate, and win my people three precious planets, or I can live a long life as a coward and watch the Huouyt grow more powerful by three."
"Say I get you the planets," Fred said.  "What can you do for me?  If my death is questionable now, it will be certain as soon as I help you."
Orbihl opened his six red eyes, focusing them on Fred.  "I can currently get you thirty-one common votes.  If I call in favors, I can get another fifteen."
Fred sat back, examining the Ayhi.  Orbihl's species was one of the most long-lived in Congress, third to the First Citizen and the Geuji.  Orbihl himself was nearing eight hundred thousand years old, and only the last eleven thousand of those were under the Watcher's care.
"Why would I need common votes?" Fred said.
"How else would you gain the chair as you and Daviin plan?" Orbihl said.
Fred winced.  "Is it that obvious?"
"As you likely know," Orbihl said, "my kind live very long lives.  We have seen much, and the patterns I'm watching play out today have played out before."
"What about you?" Fred said.  "You defy the Huouyt and you will have no protection."
Orbihl made a soft, whispery sound against his proboscis.  "I have lived long enough, human.  Illnesses do not affect my people.  We do not age.  We are too careful to succumb to accidents.  Practically, this is the only opportunity to die I will have unless I arrange it myself—which is disgraceful, as common as it is.  Can you see a more honorable way for me to perish than securing three planets for a species who after two million turns of membership only have five?"
Fred considered that a moment, then said, "No.  I can't."  He took a deep breath.  "Very well.  I believe something shall be worked out in your favor."
Orbihl blinked at him.  "That's all?  You will not barter?  You will not ask for more?  We both know forty-six votes is meaningless."
"I will take whatever votes you can get me," Fred said.  "And I don't particularly like the Huouyt, so I will be happy to accommodate."
Orbihl reached out and touched Fred's shoulder with his leathery-wet proboscis.  "I came here expecting ransoms, extortion.  The governors put together sixty million in bribes that they were willing to funnel to anonymous accounts on Preejan.  Mullich, even if you attain the Trade chair, you will not keep it.  The favor you do for me is worth that and more, and all I do for you is secure your death warrant."
Fred smiled and gave the Ayhi a reassuring pat.  "And that, my friend, is why you do not keep the planets you colonize."
Orbihl continued to stare at him.  "I've been in Congress so long I don't know if your generosity is selfless or if you have ulterior motives.  My instincts scream that you're taking advantage of me, but I can't see how."
"I am taking advantage of you," Fred said.  "Those forty-six votes will win me the Trade Chair."
Orbihl stared at him for long moments.  Finally, he said, "I almost believe you."
The Ueshi server returned looking frazzled.  "Representative Mullich?"
Fred glanced up.  The Ueshi had no food with him, only a note.  "Yes, Wivan?"
Wivan handed him the note.  "Representative Verbhan requested I deliver this to you immediately."
"Thank you, Wivan," Fred said.  He unrolled the fine Ooreiki parchment and read it.
It's time for your miracle, Mullich.  You have twenty tics to collect what you need and meet me on the diplomatic courier Truth.  This will be entirely between the two of us.  You may bring up to three assistants, the technology we discussed, and no one else.  No Jreet.  No weapons, no transmitters, no communications devices.  No tricks.
Fred felt a pang of fear.  Verbhan was asking him to walk into a trap.  Fred would be completely at his mercy if he failed, completely at his mercy if he succeeded.  Swallowing, he folded the note and set it on the table.  "Watcher, destroy that note, if you will."
"As you command, Representative Mullich."  The parchment disappeared.
"I apologize," Fred said, standing.  "I must go."
"Of course," Orbihl said, rising with him.  "Verbhan is not one to be kept waiting."
"This might take a couple weeks," Fred said.  "When I return, I'll deal with your claims issues."
Orbihl touched Fred's arm with his proboscis.  "Thank you."
Fred nodded.  "Watcher, my room, please."
"Absolutely, Representative Mullich."  The rainforest disappeared, replaced with Fred's Spartan apartment.  Sjilak and Sky were in the exact same positions he had left them, though they had turned even further away from each other, until each was facing the wall like a petulant child.
"Sky," Fred said.  "Get packed.  We're going."
Sky stood up fluidly.  "I am ready now.  Anything to get away from this brainless weevil."
"He just lost an argument," Sjilak said, "Can you tell?"
Fred frowned at Sky.  He was still wearing the nondescript white hospital clothes he had escaped the military ship in, weeks before, and they stank.  Verbhan would recognize them in a moment.
"How tall are you, Sky?  Six, six-one?"
"Six-one," Sky said.
"Five-eleven," the Trith said.
Fred went to his closet.  "Verbhan will expect any assistants of mine to wear clothes suiting their station.  I am shorter than you, but some of the robes should still fit, if you cinch them properly."
"I can make them believe I am wearing anything I want them to believe I'm wearing."
"Unless you can do the same for the ship's cameras, I suggest you change."
Sky shrugged and began stripping.  Fred threw him a set of gray robes with blue trim.  They were less attention-grabbing than Fred's green-on-black, but still nice enough to befit a Representative's assistant.
Sky put the robes on inside-out.
Fred made a disgusted sound and unwrapped them.  "No, Sky.  This way.  See the seams?  That goes inward.  The sash goes around here, like this."
"I told you," Sjilak laughed, watching them.  "The idiot can't even dress himself.  That's why he chose to sit in his own reek.  Perhaps you should let him go naked."
Sky shot the Trith a look that would have frozen a volcano, but Sjilak was unaffected.
Fred finished with Sky, then went to his desk and snatched up the golden gem.  This he handed to Sky.
Sky shoved it back at him.
"You don't have to hold it for it to work?" Fred asked, frowning down at the gem.
"He doesn't even have to come with you," Sjilak said.  "But he's afraid of me, so he will."
Sky narrowed his eye.  "Watcher, take me to the diplomatic ship Truth."
"As you wish, Sky."
"Wait!" Fred cried, but Sky was already gone.
In his corner, Sjilak snickered.
Fred glared at the Trith.  "You are not helping things."
Sjilak shrugged.  "Sky and Forgotten keep me prisoner here.  I can't even activate the Watcher to leave the room.  I am trying to make the best of it."
Fred had nothing to say to that.  He followed Sky to Truth.
"Mullich," Verbhan barked as soon as Fred arrived on the ship.  "What is this?"  He waved a tentacle at Sky.
"My assistant," Fred said.  Around them, the ship began powering up, welcoming them in its pleasant, automated voice.
"He's Human," Verbhan said.  "I was under the impression you were the only Human on Koliinaat."
"He's an agent from Earth," Fred said.  "He alerted me to the new technologies."
Verbhan grunted.  "That explains his deformity.  For a moment, there, I almost thought I recognized Rri'jan's work."
Fred felt his blood chill at mention of the assassin, but he did not show it.  "An accident on Earth.  So where are you taking us, Verbhan?  Which planet?"
"You will know when you get there," the Ooreiki retorted.  "Until then, enjoy the ride.  For the sake of pure science, I will expect you to remain in this room for the duration of the flight.  Keep in mind you will be monitored at all times, in case you develop an affinity for wandering."
With that brusque introduction, Verbhan slapped his fingers against the control panel, oozing the door shut between them.
"I hope you know what you're doing," Fred muttered.  "He'll kill us if we fail."  Unlike the Huouyt, who would wait for the most opportune time to strike, for wasting his time on something as important to the Ooreiki culture as a shattered oorei, the Ooreiki would end his life as quickly and with as much finality as possible.
Sky shrugged and sat down against the wall.  We're about to find out.







CHAPTER 28: Mourning the Dead
"A Takki?" Syuri demanded again.  His initial shock had worn off and now he was just dumbfounded.  "Forgotten, you never said anything about a worthless Takki."
The Takki—they had actually given the beast a name, but Syuri hadn't bothered remembering it—was giving Syuri an angry look, his cerulean eyes hard.  He had endured Syuri's rant until now, but he finally grabbed the Jahul by the vest and pulled him closer, until their faces almost touched.
"Do you have a problem with Takki, alien scum?"  The wave of fury rolling off the Takki assaulted his sivvet in a startling blast.  It was unlike any non-sent Syuri had ever felt.
"It has feelings," Syuri blurted.  "How is that possible, Forgotten?"
The Takki's brow ridge lowered in a scowl.  "My name is Governor Larry Vigil.  Say it."
He actually thinks he has a name!  Syuri was so stunned he blinked, frozen like an icicle in the Takki's clawed grip.
"Don't hold my friend's words against him, Larry," Forgotten said.  "It's the way Syuri was raised.  You'll actually have to cope with a lot of bias where you are going.  Earth is the anomaly, in that sense."
Larry snarled into Syuri's face and shoved him away so hard Syuri stumbled.  "I won't put up with it."
"Which is exactly why you are going with them," Forgotten said.
Syuri was still staring at 'Larry'.  This can't be right.  This has to be some sort of joke.  "Forgotten?" he blurted.
"Yes, Syuri?"
"What's wrong with it?"  As Larry stiffened again, Syuri quickly babbled, "He's clearly been altered or mutated.  Did one of those Minders do another mind-meld or something?"
"There's nothing wrong with him," Forgotten said.  "The Takki on Earth have been raised with a sense of Self.  They are full citizens in this culture."
Syuri blinked, remembering the 'Governor' honorific.  "You mean he's not a slave?"
Larry's eyes narrowed and Syuri flinched at the sudden rush of rage cramping his sivvet.  He backed up a couple paces, putting Kim between him and the beast.
"Not at all," Forgotten said.  "He is the governor of a deep den.  He had to give up his position to a Dhasha to join us here."
Syuri felt his waste chamber strain, and he had a rush of rancid fluid over his skin.  Kim made a face and backed away quickly.  Staring at Larry, Syuri babbled, "He gave his position to a Dhasha?  Was the Dhasha sickly?  What kind of screwed up planet is this?"
"Listen, you gigantic insect," Larry snapped, moving to grab Syuri again.  Syuri scuttled backwards with another release of his chambers and, to his relief, Kim stopped Larry with a light hand on his arm.  The Human between them, Larry bared his black teeth at Syuri over her shoulder.  Both of them knew he could simply shove the girl aside and pound him to death in half a tic.  "Forgotten, I'm tired of his insults.  I will not travel with someone with his stupid prejudices."
"You will not find anyone without his prejudices," Forgotten said.  "For, in the rest of the universe, his biases are justified."
The Takki stiffened, his purple scales tightening to his chest.  "Say that again, slime mold?"
"Takki are slaves," Syuri retorted.  "Everyone knows this.  It is what they are best suited for.  Manual labor."
"You totter around on six spindly legs like an ant and have the audacity to suggest I'm better suited as a slave?" Larry snapped.  "This slave could destroy your weakling body in a second, alien."  He punched a scaly purple fist into a hard palm, glaring at Syuri with meaning.  "I'd be happy to do it, too.  Just gimme a reason."
"Like I said earlier," Forgotten said, "Larry, you are going to have to learn to deal with the prejudices of the rest of the universe.  For your own safety, you are going to have to act as if you are indentured to one of your companions, at least until you reach your destination."
"No," Larry said.  "Screw that."
"It will be for your own protection," Forgotten repeated.  "Any Dhasha you come across will try and lay claim to you if they perceive you as masterless."
"I don't care.  Somebody's got to start changing things."
"And you will," Forgotten said.  "But you must stay alive long enough to do so.  To that end, you must choose one of your companions to be your master in public, at least until you are in place."
Larry's face twisted, his purple scales wrinkling over his elongated snout.  "If Blue Rose hadn't told me to you were the smartest creature in the universe, I'd tell you to go fuck yourself."
"I am not the smartest creature in the universe," Forgotten said.  "That would be the oldest Geuji, by the name of Zoiel.  I believe he is two million, nine hundred thousand, five hundred and fifty-two turns old, but his exact conception was never recorded."
Larry seemed to flinch.  "How old are you, then?"
"Nine hundred and ninety-eight turns."
Larry grunted.  "A baby."
"Yes."
"I'll go with Kim," Larry said, his egg-shaped blue eyes fixing on Syuri.  "I don't think I could stand to be in the room with that stupid creature, much less pretend to serve him."
"Very well.  Syuri, do you understand your part of the plan?"
Now that he'd seen the situation up close, he knew exactly why Forgotten had brought him along.  "Keep the Takki from getting himself killed," Syuri muttered.
"And?"
"I think that will be the hardest part," Syuri said.  "Compared to that, Grakkas will be a visit to one of Janufa's pleasure planets."  Syuri cursed.  "Damn it, Forgotten, you never said anything about babysitting a freak Takki."
Larry stiffened and Kim quickly stepped between them.  "Stop it, Syuri," she said, glaring at him with her tiny green eyes.  Her skin was redder than usual, almost matching her hair.  "All you've done for the last half hour is insult him."
"He's a Takki," Syuri muttered.  "He deserves insulting."
Larry bodily lifted Kim up and, with complete gentleness, set her out of his way.  Then, in three seconds, he had Syuri by the throat.  "Forgotten, do we need this stinking bag of Dhasha shit?  Because I'd love to show him exactly how little effort it would take me to gut him alive."  With one arm, Larry lifted Syuri up until his back feet lost purchase on the ship's floor.  Syuri did not choke, as his airways were not blocked, but he did feel himself several different shades of green and spew excrement over his body.
Larry immediately made a disgusted sound and dropped the smuggler, looking at his hand.  "What is that?  Some sort of primitive defense mechanism?  A predator gets a nice big juicy mouthful and then you slime the inside of his mouth with crap?"  He disgustedly wiped his hand off on his shirt.  "Ugh.  You're worse than a skunk.  Now I need a new set of clothes."
A Takki had...assaulted him.  And it had emotions.  That he could feel.  Strong ones, just as strong as any other sentient species...
It was an abomination.  A complete abomination, and Forgotten expected him to share space with it for the next three-quarter rotation...  Completely stunned, Syuri collected himself and got back to his feet.  He was shaking, reeking like a sewage processor, unable to process.  Around him, Kim and Larry both watched him dispassionately, like he were the one in the wrong.  Even Forgotten gave off a feeling of pity from the other side of the wall. 
I can't handle this, Syuri thought.  Without another word, he turned and fled the ship.
#
Kim watched the five-foot lizard tighten its fists as it watched the Jahul scurry off.  Outwardly, the Takki was beautiful.  In her second consciousness, it was stunning.  The exquisite purple scales gleamed with watery smoothness even when she focused, enlarged to the point that chunks of skin and dirt drifted past on the air currents like floating planets.
After a moment, Larry composed himself.  "I'm sorry, Forgotten.  I shouldn't have lost my temper."
"That was probably the best thing you could have done," Forgotten said.  "Syuri's biases are so ingrained that no amount of logical argument would have changed his mind.  I believe only a show of physical force would have been enough to counter his preconceptions.  Takki, as he knows them, are meek and docile creatures that will literally allow a Dhasha to eat them if that's the Dhasha's wish.  It will take much to break him of that notion."
"Will everyone be like him?" Larry asked.
"Or worse.  There are many species out there who will not even recognize a Takki's existence.  That means they will not interact with them in any way, either by speech or visually.  Takki are an inferior race to the rest of Congress."
"But you're going to prove them wrong," Kim said, touching Larry's arm where the scales had tightened against his skin.
"Later," Larry said bitterly.  "After I tromp around pretending I'm a servant."
"I'm sorry," Forgotten said.  "I would not want to be in your position, Takki."
"Nor I yours," Larry said, heaving a sigh.  "Fine.  Let's go.  We wouldn't want the little centipede to leave without us."  He followed Syuri from the ship, leaving Kim alone with Forgotten.
"Are you sure you want to continue?" Forgotten asked once they were gone.  "We can still back down and allow Blue Rose to pursue her plan."
Kim's second consciousness had drifted through the wall and had settled over the mold that was her friend.  "No.  She'd have me kill people."
A wave of energy passed through Forgotten's slimy fuzz.  Kim moved closer, intrigued.  Each particle was intertwined, connected with a vast network of roads and channels embedded in the oily material under the towering black down covering the surface.  The closer she got, the more channels she found, until she had focused beyond the cellular level of a human and the network of channels kept getting smaller.
"Like what you're seeing?" Forgotten said.
Kim flinched and backed away.  "I didn't mean to—"
"No," Forgotten interrupted, "Look all you want.  I've picked through your brain, so it's only fair."
Kim pulled her second consciousness back into her body.  "I'm sorry.  I shouldn't examine living things.  It's evil."
"Why?"
Because I killed my brother.  Kim looked away, out the door.  "The only reason to examine a person in second sight is to kill him or try to copy him.  I'll never do either of those things again, so there's no point."
"What about to heal him?" Forgotten said.
Kim glanced up, frowning.  "What?"
"You should probably go supervise Syuri," Forgotten said.  "He'll be a bit unpredictable until he becomes used to the Takki, even with the extra nutrients I've prescribed him."
Kim opened her consciousness again and glanced down at her left hand.  She could see every slim thread of muscle, every tendon where they stretched across bone.  When she glanced at her right, her metal fingers stood out against the flowing organism that was her hand.  They were harsher, with an outer shell like a beetle's carapace and unnatural tendons that would cleave away from the bone before they snapped.
I could fix them, she realized, a wave of shock passing over her.
Immediately, she withdrew her consciousness.  She didn't deserve to be healed.
"You aren't a bad person, Kim."
Kim snorted and dropped her hand to her side.  "You've never killed anyone."
"Billions have died due to my political maneuverings."
"But you've never reached out and grasped someone by the throat and squeezed until there's nothing left," Kim said.  "You can't."
"What if I told you I'd always meant for you to duplicate your brother?" Forgotten said.
Kim laughed.  "Then I'd tell you you were trying to cheer me up and you're doing a bad job of it."
Forgotten hesitated.  Then, into her mind, he said, What if I told you I miscalculated, and that I thought you would let them both live?
Suddenly, all of Kim's amusement left her.  "Did you?"
I'm sorry, Kim, Forgotten said, his voice a near whisper.  I wanted the added resources, should something happen to one of you.
Kim stared at the wall in shock.  "But you told me you couldn't predict how strong I was."
I couldn't directly predict because there is no precedent for what Humans can do, but I could guess.  Sky gave me some...insights...that I wanted to test.
"Why?!" she cried.
Because I'm a coward.  It was my intention all along to see if you could duplicate a Human body, given the proper incentives.  I was too afraid to ask you to try it—I manipulated you into doing it, instead.  Knowing your brother's psychological weaknesses, I planted the seeds that Fire harvested.
Kim found her eyes tearing, her metal fingers cold against her palm.  "You told me you don't lie."
She felt his shame.  In very rare, very unique circumstances, my fear might get the better of me.
Kim was trembling.  "You actually thought I'd kill you too if you told me the truth the night it happened?"
You would have, at that point.
Revulsion overpowered her.  Revulsion for herself, revulsion for Forgotten, revulsion for the situation.  Kim sank to the floor, tears leaking from her closed eyes.  "You knew I would do it?  You wanted me to do it?"
Yes.  I was hoping to have two Makers with Fire's capabilities when it came to forge the planet.
"Two of...Fire?  Why?"
Because he can use his powers.  You can't.  I doubt you'll succeed with the Grakkas ruvmestin, so I wanted to have a backup.
Kim felt betrayed.  "I hate you," she bit out.
His mental voice held a tinge of regret.  Most people do.
"So is that part of your plan?" Kim demanded.  "For me to hate you?"
Whether or not you hate me is inconsequential to my final goal.
Kim let out a strangled sob.  "Are you trying to make me kill you, Forgotten?"
No.  I am merely telling you the truth.
Slowly, Kim got to her feet.  "Did you really plan on me duplicating Fire?"
From the beginning.  The moment Sky gave me the lifestone and I saw what your brother could do.
"So you were playing with our lives, pitting us against each other, hoping he'd make me mad enough to prove I could Make something better than bugs."
He hesitated again, and she felt another wave of regret.  Yes.
Kim nodded and walked out.  As she was leaving, she sank her second consciousness into her brain, settling on the tiny metal nodule Forgotten had left there.  With a mental twist, she disintegrated it, leaving cerebral fluid in its place.
In the ship behind her, she heard Forgotten call her name.
Kim kept walking.
#
Fred opened his eyes as the ship jolted as it docked.  Minutes later, Verbhan unlocked the door and peered in at them.  "We're here, Human," he said brusquely.  "Get up or I'll leave you here."
Fred swallowed and got to his feet to follow Verbhan.  "I was beginning to think you were going to leave us in there."
"I considered it," Verbhan snapped.  "As we both know that this excursion is a ridiculous attempt for you to gain more political airtime.  You don't actually care about the plight of a few lost Ooreiki souls."
"Actually I do," Sky said.
The Ooreiki hesitated, looking sideways at Sky measuringly, then his brown eyes slitted and he barked, "Keep your servant silent unless I address him directly."
Sky ignored the disrespect and followed the Ooreiki into the hall.  Outside, a gold-clad Ooreiki priest stood in the hall, a Poenian record-book clasped under one arm.  The priest was watching Fred and Sky with outright malice hardening his faded brown eyes. 
"I still can't believe you're allowing this farce to continue, Representative," the priest said, tapping the record-book irritably with three truncated, gold-tipped fingers.
"Where are we?" Fred asked, glancing at the swirling red and orange clouds of the planetary atmosphere hovering in the windows above him.  They were at a quiet dock reserved for Congressional diplomats, with the only other living souls in the room seated behind a guard desk, far enough away not to monitor their conversation.
"Kophat," Sky said.  "Joe Dobbs trained here.  I remember the air.  Hard to breathe."
Verbhan squinted at Sky again, longer this time.  Then, almost distractedly, he said, "It's a Congressional training planet called Kophat.  It sounds as if you are already familiar with it."
"It's where Congress trained Human draftees," Fred said, nodding.  "You found a soul here?"
The priest slapped his book.  "There have been one hundred and eighty-three oorei destroyed on Kophat since the planet's inception.  There may have been several murders, as well, though it is impossible to know."
"Eleven murders," Sky said.
Verbhan's gaze snapped to the Minder.  "What did he say?"
Hastily, Fred said, "I'm not sure.  So which soul did you want us to collect?"
For a moment, neither Ooreiki answered.  Then Verbhan snapped, "Well, tell them.  This won't take long."
Very reluctantly, the ancient Ooreiki priest said, "A vkala.  I will not have you disgrace the souls of higher castes with your foolery."
Fred bowed politely.  "Can you take us to the exact location he died?"
Verbhan was still giving Sky a narrow look as he said, "The city was largely destroyed around seven hundred and forty turns ago during the Huouyt Rebellion, but we can get you close to the exact coordinates.  The rubble is almost fifty feet thick over the plaza where he died.  How close do you need to be?"
I could do it from here, Sky said, still staring up at the red and orange planet above them, to all appearances not even paying attention to the conversation.
"At least standing over the site," Fred said, wanting to make a better show of it—and potentially extend his life a bit longer.  "The closer we are, the more chance we have of attracting him."
Verbhan gave Fred an unreadable look.  "Are you trying to tell me you actually intend to continue with this farce?"
"Absolutely," Fred said, with a lot more confidence than he felt.  "Take us to this lost soul, Verbhan."
"You realize you won't be leaving this planet if you fail," Verbhan said, watching him closely.  "I don't know what politics you are playing, but I am not like Kaj'nol.  Those who cross me die by the end of the day, rather than twenty turns later, living in fear."
"Sky won't fail," Fred said, even as his knees started to shake with nervous energy.  What if the telepath was wrong?  What if it was close, but didn't quite do the job?  Verbhan would think they had intentionally tried to humiliate him.
"So he will be activating the technology?" the priest demanded, clutching his sacred record book closer.  "The one with such a lack of care and attention to detail he is missing an eye?  An imbecile?"
Like a curious child, Sky nonchalantly began to wander around the station to get a better view out the windows.
Reddening, Fred cleared his throat and said, "Yes.  It will be him."
Fred forced himself not to quail under the growing fury emanating from Representative Verbhan.  Both the Ooreiki's sudah were fluttering like angry bat wings in their necks.
"Shall we?"  Fred had no illusions that the Ooreiki Representative would be kind to them after a bungle of such enormous proportions, regardless of how private the priesthood had kept the incident.  A hundred thousand 'cures' had been offered to the Ooreiki for lost souls, and the Ooreiki, in their desperation, followed up on every single one of them.  When they inevitably failed, however, it was no secret that the ones offering the cures were disposed of with the same dispassionate disdain that they would deal with criminals of the greatest degree.
Seeing how angry Verbhan was, Fred knew he would probably have his Jreet kill them both as slowly as was physically possible.  They might even use nanos to keep them alive so it could last longer.
Fred shuddered inwardly and said a prayer that Sky knew what kind of fire he played with.
Verbhan silently led them onto a shuttle, Congressional Jreet sliding against the floor on all sides of Fred.  He found it a small comfort that the Jreet weren't in full silent mode, which meant they were relaxed enough to give away their positions to the humans they were escorting.
Relaxed enough...or they just didn't care.  What could Fred do to a Jreet, anyway?  He hadn't even brought a knife.
The shuttle slipped out of dock and, as Sky clung to the windows in childlike glee, began its long descent into the swirling red and orange atmosphere.  Verbhan sat on the bench across from them, watching Sky with narrowed brown eyes.  Verbhan had brought no assistants, just himself, his Jreet, and the quiet Ooreiki priest who pointedly ignored them in a corner.  Fred did not like that fact.  It meant fewer witnesses, should Fred and Sky disappear.
Fred felt his nerves return and wished he had had enough forethought to bring his cross.  As it was, his hands were shaking where he hid them in his sleeves.  Beside him, Sky seemed enraptured with the orange clouds out the window.
"Your assistant has an eerie resemblance to the human who escaped Kerjia," Verbhan said, his eyes showing not a flicker of his thoughts.  "The only difference is that he is missing an eye."
Fred twitched, daring to say nothing.
"He also does not understand Congie," Verbhan said.  "I could tell you that at this moment, he has a Jreet fang a millimeter from his neck, and he will not even flinch."
Fred glanced back at Sky.  The telepath seemed as oblivious as usual, grinning like a child as they dropped through the clouds.
"Does he?" Fred whispered, inwardly watching all of their plans topple with the death of the telepath.
"Does it matter?  He does not understand us, Mullich.  He is an escapee from an Ooreiki ship.  His only outstanding quality is that he somehow escaped a full-quadrant search and got one of my close relatives labeled as incompetent and delegated to tracking pirates on the edges of the Old Territory.  What I would like to know is how you expect him to help you restore a soul to normalcy."
"As would I," the ancient priest said.
Both Verbhan and the priest watched Fred with cold hostility, daring them to respond.  Fred opened his mouth, but found himself unable to speak.  In a panic, he tried working his jaw, but his vocal chords simply refused to move.
Anything you say at this point will get us both killed, Sky said.  So just stay silent.
Fred watched Verbhan's growing fury with frustration, knowing if he could just speak to the Representative, calm his nerves, everything would be all right.
It won't, Sky said.  Kaj'nol offered him a truce if he got rid of you.  That's the only reason we're here right now.
Cold fear worked its way down Fred's back in a frigid trickle.
Verbhan leaned back against the bench and coldly said, "It will be amusing watching you fail, Mullich.  And afterwards, I will enjoy your death just as much."
They landed and the priest led them out onto a maze of glassy black rubble.  It was all Fred could do to keep up as the Ooreiki scrambled over obsidian boulders the size of spaceships.  He felt some small satisfaction, however, knowing that Verbhan was just as badly out of shape as Fred was.  Both of them were struggling before they'd gone fifty feet.  Only Sky and the priest seemed to be unaffected.
"Here," the priest said, stopping them suddenly in a hollow between a cluster of glossy boulders.  Monitoring a small device in his hand, he looked up.  "This is as close as you will get."  He spread a tentacle wide, giving Fred a disdainful look.  "By all means, Human, show us what you can do."
This is a grave, Fred thought, glancing at the towering black rock walls all around them.  They wouldn't find us for years.
As Fred stared in trepidation at the rocks around them, Sky moved forward and took the spherical gem from Fred's pocket.  With it held in front of him, he walked toward one corner of the cluster, underneath where two boulders leaned against one another.
"Where's your equipment?" Verbhan demanded, swiveling to face Fred and putting his back to Sky.  "Where's the technology you spoke of?  Have you given up, Human?  You realize the charade is ridiculous and, having committed the one crime the Ooreiki people will condemn with death, you've decided to beg for mercy?"
"Just wait, please," Fred said, watching Sky incline his head.
Verbhan snorted.  "Guards, put an end to this stupid creature before I—"
Then, as clear as angels trumpeting, they heard the priest gasp.
Verbhan frowned and turned.
Sky was speaking to an Ooreiki who had not been there before.
The stranger was older, with a vkala's mass of scars.  He wore an outdated black Army uniform emblazoned with a seven-pointed star on his chest.  He stood calmly, arms at his sides, watching the telepath with interest.  Something about his eyes, however, left Fred with chills.  They were as black as a Trith's.
Sky suddenly bowed low, a perfect imitation of an Ooreiki courtesy, or as close to it as a Human could get.  As Fred and the others stared, Sky spoke began to speak in a language Fred didn't understand.
The priest was the first to recover.  "What is he saying to him?" he demanded.
"I can't hear it," Verbhan said, looking stunned.  "Arlal, is what I'm seeing real?"
"I don't know," the priest said, watching the interaction between the two.  "If it is not, it is a very well-planned forgery."
Fred thought of Forgotten and winced.  What if it was a charade, some very precise hologram?  He hadn't considered that before, and the thought made him nervous.  Surely Forgotten would have known that a Poenian priest would have come along to see the miracle for himself.  Nothing in the universe would fool a Poenian caretaker of souls for long.
Apparently Verbhan was thinking the same thing.  "Go look."
The priest nodded, but still he hesitated.  "How does that human know Ooreiki?"
"I didn't know he did," Fred said truthfully.
Verbhan's pupils were slitted so that almost no pupil showed.  "His words sound dated.  I can still follow them, but they sound..."
"...old," the priest whispered.  "Human, where did you find the one-eye?"
"In my room," Fred said.  "He came to me."
Verbhan jerked to stare at Fred.  "He got past the Watcher?  How?  Was Genbiraa involved in this?!"
"Politics is of no consequence right now, fool!" the priest snapped.  "Do you know what this means, Verbhan?"
"Then you are assuming the spirit is real?" Verbhan said.
"Look at him," the priest said.  "You do not get that soul-chill from a hologram."
"So the spirit is real," Verbhan muttered.  "Has he completed his task?  Is he bound?"
At that, Sky turned from the dead Ooreiki and walked to the priest, a smile on his face.  He held out his fist and dropped the golden gem into Arlal's cupped tentacles.  Unlike the dull yellow of before, it now had a soft inner light. 
"He is ready to go," Sky said as the priest stared down at the glowing golden stone in his hand.  "He has been away from Poen for too long.  He wishes to see his friends.  If possible, he'd like you to place him in the same temple as his first groundteam, though if they have been split up, he would like you to put him with Lagrah or Nebil.  They died around the same year as he did, so they should be easy enough to find.  Be careful with the oorei, though.  It is not as strong as a natural one, so must be treated with care until you arrive on Poen."
All this, Sky had said in stilted Ooreiki Common, almost like he was reciting a foreign language.
The priest said nothing, his sudah deathly still as he stared down at the glowing stone in his hands.  Then, looking numb, he returned his gaze to the Ooreiki spirit that had followed Sky to stand beside them.
Verbhan glanced at the glowing stone, then at Sky.  "What trickery have you entertained us with, Mullich?  Which Ooreiki did you kill to get that soul?"
"No," the priest said suddenly, stopping Verbhan with a tentacle on his shoulder.  He opened his sacred book to a marked page and showed them the very alien they had just seen conversing with Sky.  "This oorei belongs to the soul that was destroyed at this place almost seven hundred turns ago.  Kihgl the vkala." 
"It looks like him," Verbhan corrected.  "Perform the conversion ritual."
The priest hesitated, glancing between the calm Ooreiki apparition and Sky with awe.  Sky, for his part, had bent down to inspect the sharp obsidian gravel, the rest of the exchange seemingly no longer of interest to him.
"Well?" Verbhan demanded, though he had taken a nervous step away from the black-eyed apparition.  "If he's real, carry him over."
Very gingerly, the priest took the golden ball from Fred and, opening his book, began intoning a ritual in an ancient Ooreiki tongue that, within only brief moments, made the air around them seem to take on a sharper, electric feel.
Oh that's good, Sky said, standing and looking around them at something the rest clearly could not see.  His friends came.
Then, as the strange energy to the air began to all but hum around them, the priest reached out, and, with its three golden fingers, touched the forehead of the lost soul.
There was a clap, like thunder, and a sudden feeling of air rushing in from all sides.  Under the yeeri's hand, the spirit's eyes had taken on the same golden glow of the stone in his hand.
When the priest dropped his hand, his pupils were wide.  "It's real."







CHAPTER 29: The Best Medicine
"How?" Verbhan whispered, staring at the telepath.  Behind him, the priest had stripped and was busy wrapping the recovered oorei in his fine robes, oblivious to all else.
Sky made another Ooreiki bow.  "I am a Minder."
"A what?" Verbhan demanded, but it was with more chagrin this time.  Almost...respect?
"Eight hundred and nineteen years ago on Earth, one batch of military experiments escaped Congressional judgment," Sky said.  "They were my ancestors."
Fred watched Verbhan stiffen.  He, like every other member of Congress, had been briefed on Earth's experiments, back when they debated merely embargoing Earth or destroying it entirely.  "You are telepathic?"
"Somewhat," Sky replied.
Verbhan stared at Sky for long minutes, then glanced at the priest behind him.  When he looked back at Sky, his eyes were unreadable.  "Is what you did real, Human?  Or did you simply make me believe it?"
"It was real," Sky said.  "A lost soul is really a scattered consciousness with no anchor in the physical world.  I merely had to pull him back into a whole and give him a new anchor.  Your priest did the rest."
The priest in question was singing some sort of ancient ritual song over the carefully-folded bundle of his own robes.
Verbhan, however, seemed more wary.  "Your people can...manipulate...consciousness?"
"Yes."
Verbhan's pupils slitted slightly.  "If you manipulate the mind, you could be making us believe this had happened."
"True," Sky said.  "But it is a lot easier just to do it.  Changing someone's mind takes effort.  All I had to do with Kihgl is collect the pieces."
Kim's warnings about Sky turning unfortunate victims into frogs made Fred blanch.  Here was proof he was dealing with creatures several exponents out of his league.
"Are you the only one who can do this?" Verbhan demanded.
Fred stiffened.  This was where Verbhan took the Minder hostage to work for the Poenian priesthood.
"No," Sky said.  "Almost any Minder can, as long as they are close."
"And how many Minders are there on Earth?" Verbhan pressed, his eyes sharp.  Fred wished he could intercede, take over the conversation, and start laying down Earth's terms, but he knew Verbhan would not be dissuaded.  He kept quiet, praying the telepath knew what he was doing.
"There are seven thousand and eighty-six of us," Sky said.  Then he smiled.  "Unless you count the sixteen in the womb."
"Just seven thousand?" the priest demanded, naked but for the golden bundle under his arm.  "What would happen if Earth had a plague?  Or its star exploded?"
"Yes," Verbhan agreed.  "The universe is a dangerous place.  It bodes ill that they are all at one location."
Fred was stunned to realize Verbhan was not threatening them.  He was genuinely concerned.
"We will have to move half of them to Poen immediately," Arlal said.  "The priesthood will house them, begin missions to extract other souls."
"Even with seven thousand of them, it will still take turns to recover even a tenth of the souls we've lost.  We'll have to leave half of them behind to reproduce."
"A third," Arlal said.  "Our physicians can keep them alive at least three times their normal lifespan."
"Or we could send them all out and transfer genetic material between ships by courier."
"Are you daft?  The one-eye could communicate without knowing the language.  We must leave at least a thousand of his kind on Poen to translate the wisdom of the oldest souls."
"Maybe we could clone them.  We could start a secret facility on Poen, create duplicates..."
"No."
Both of the Ooreiki's sudah gave a startled quiver as they looked at Sky. 
"We can only afford to give you three teams of Minders," Sky said.  "Twelve total.  The rest are needed in the hard times that are facing Earth."
"What hard times?" the priest cried.  At the same time, Verbhan's eyes cleared with understanding.
"He's talking about the Draft," Verbhan said, a new respect shining in his eyes.  "Earth is just now being brought back into the fold.  It's looking at a draft of approximately a third of its population simply to acquire the numbers to make one Planetary Force."
The priest blinked at them.  "It has had no Draft?"
"We have," Fred said.  "But Earth lost a case before the Tribunal a Sacred Turn ago and was put under Judgement.  Earth is just now being brought back into the universal society."
"All the more reason to get them off of Earth!" Arlal said.  "If one of them got Drafted, the Army would realize their mistake and return to rain fire down upon them all."
"Or the Minder would make a seemingly impossible escape in the depths of space," Verbhan said, watching Sky.
"But it makes no sense to stay on Earth," Arlal said, his words sounding almost like a plea, now.  "The priesthood would offer every one of you sanctuary, and damn what the Tribunal thinks.  They might feel safe to mete out Judgement on a tiny population like Humans, but they would never step sideways of the Ooreiki."
"We will do what we can to help you," Sky said, "But until our problems with Congress are solved, we cannot give you the numbers you want."
"But—"
Verbhan lifted an arm, cutting off the rest of the priest's objection.  "They will help us," he said, nodding at Sky.  "They've already tied our fates together with this demonstration.  They're offering us a bargain, Arlal.  They will help us salvage lost souls in return for our support.  Am I right, Mullich?"
Fred nodded.
"So.  You've demonstrated your abilities, so now we come to the bargaining section of the negotiation."  Verbhan's liquid brown eyes grew sharp.  "Tell me.  What," Verbhan said, "Is a soul worth to you, human?"
"Poen will give them anything they ask," the priest said.
Verbhan nodded a dismissal, holding up a hand for silence, waiting for Fred's reply.
"We don't want money," Fred said.  "Our centers of learning were destroyed.  Only a few humans still retain the ability to read.  Our math and engineering skills are abysmal.  We have not even re-mastered large-scale agriculture or electricity."
"You want teachers," Arlal said.
"Yes."
"Teachers that can keep their mouths shut," Verbhan added gruffly.
"The priesthood," Arlal said firmly.  "The yeeri are the most educated Ooreiki in Congress.  We will come to train you."
Sky nodded as if it was what he had expected all along.  Fred had to force his mouth to close in his shock.
"We only have one condition," Sky said.
"Name it," Arlal said.
"The vkala.  Send them to Earth instead of making them face onen.  It's been two million turns and they still appear—they will not be bred out.   Let the past be forgotten.  The sins of their ancestors have long been repaid and should not continue to haunt them.  Allow this union to create peace between two peoples who want nothing to do with the wars of other species, and who will stand together to end the Draft."
Both the Ooreiki stared at Sky as if his eye had suddenly grown back, falling into place like a spare roll of toilet paper.
"Vkala," Verbhan said, face twisting in reflexive disgust.  "What do you care about vkala?"  Even the Poenian priest looked stunned.
"I care about everyone," Sky said.  "And if I can stop a cruelty, I will."
Verbhan waved a dismissive hand.  "Every Ooreiki city looks forward to its annual vkala ceremony.  It's a tradition."
"Change the tradition," Sky said, holding Verbhan's gaze.  "You will not get another soul until you do."
The Representative stiffened, but the priest used that moment to step in.  "You would take the outcasts?" Arlal demanded.  "The tainted ones?"
"Gladly," Fred said.  "We've already accepted Dhasha, Takki, and Huouyt into our society."
"The Huouyt?" Verbhan said sharply.  "They colonized Earth and you dare try to make demands of us?  You will lose your entire planet to them within twenty turns."
"They didn't colonize," Sky said.  "One of our Founders incorporated their genetic code into his.  Samuel Dobbs.  The Ghost.  Many of his children carried the ability to take the patterns of other creatures.  Only a handful had the same...mindset...as a Huouyt, and most of those are dealt with by the Council of Six."
"The vkala are descendants of those who betrayed the Ooreiki people at the Founding of Congress.  The ones who approved the Draft."  The way Verbhan said it, they deserved to be tortured to death for their ancient ancestors' crimes.
"They are," Sky said, nodding.  "And you're going to forgive them."
"We can't just—" Verbhan began.
"We will give them the vkala," Arlal stated.  "And anything else they want.  We are in no position to bargain, Verbhan."
"No position?" Verbhan said.  "The humans' days are numbered.  As soon as Congress discovers the Minders, Earth will be obliterated down to the last water molecule."
"Which is why they must never know," Arlal said.  "The priesthood will send tutors to teach them their rights within the upcoming Draft and patrols to ensure Congress receives no compromising information in its reports.  We will deport all vkala niish to Earth to serve the Minders, and they, in turn, will help us begin reclaiming the souls we have lost over the millennia."
"But—"
"This is the decision of the priesthood.  You will comply, hoga."
Verbhan, surprisingly, cut off immediately and bowed low, his entire boneless body sinking to the ground, and Fred realized, in that instant, that it was the priest, not the politician, who held the ranking position.
The naked Ooreiki looked down at Verbhan's pooled body like a king surveying a cobbler.  Then, after a moment, he said, "This is what the Ooreiki have hoped for for millions of turns, Verbhan.  I will not allow political posturing to get in the way.  We will give Earth anything it wants, whenever it wants it.  You may rise."
Verbhan straightened from his pool of flesh, looking completely contrite.  "And if they want us to go to war to stop the Draft?" he asked tentatively.
"Then we go to war," Arlal said.
Fred's breath caught.  The Ooreiki were the most populace race in Congress.  To have their Space Forces at their backs...
"You won't go to war," Sky interrupted.  "We don't want anyone to die."
"Regardless," the priest said, holding the Representative's gaze, "Verbhan must realize that this is the most important thing to happen to Ooreiki culture since its inception."  He held out the bundled oorei so Verbhan could see it.  "Never have we had a better cause to stand up to Congress."
Verbhan nodded once, his sudah betraying his excitement.  "Very well.  I can mobilize eighty billion troops in an hour."
"We don't want a war," Sky said again, louder this time.
"Then what do you want, human?" Verbhan demanded.  "You realize your little paradise is going to be destroyed as soon as Congress realizes what it is, don't you?  If we strike now, with full force, the Ooreiki could probably take a stranglehold on the Old Territory, shut off trade to Koliinaat and the main homeworlds, force terms."
"Sky doesn't want a war," Fred said.  "If he had, every Representative would have died the day he stepped onto Koliinaat."
Verbhan flinched.  "He can kill?"
"You fool," Arlal snapped.  "He can heal a shattered soul.  Any idiot could see the knife cuts both ways."  To Sky, he said, "If not a war, what do you want?"
"Peace," Sky said.  "No deaths."
Verbhan snorted.  "Peace with Congress?  Not without the Draft.  And they analyze DNA when they take soldiers for the Draft.  They'll discover your secrets soon enough."
"Let us try," Fred said.  "Give us a turn.  Sky believes he can remove Earth from Congress without bloodshed."
"If he fails, the Ooreiki will fight for you," Arlal said.  Verbhan bowed with respect to the old Ooreiki and did not contradict.
"No," Sky insisted.  "If I fail, Earth won't need you to fight for us."
Verbhan frowned.  "What does that mean?"
"It means," Arlal said, "That there will be seven thousand and eighty-six new assassins in the universe."







CHAPTER 30: A Tough Sell
Kim sat on one edge of the room, twelve feet from anyone else, but her consciousness rested a millimeter above Larry's left eye.  The gemlike sapphire material fascinated her with its solidarity and depth.  When she moved closer, she felt her consciousness swallowed by a dense material, many times heavier than stone.
Prompted by this realization, Kim asked Larry if she could touch his eyeball.
"Sure," the Takki said, as if she had not said anything out of the usual.
Kim approached, then squatted beside him.  She was pushing her fingertip into the ultra hard surface of his eye, watching her finger compress around it in enthrallment, when Syuri found them like that.
"They make the best paperweights in Congress," Syuri said, scrunching his froglike face into a grimace.  "The Takki farms sell them before they even butcher their stock.  More clarity if they harvest them while they're still alive."
Larry surged to his feet, glaring at Syuri.  "Perhaps I should make trophies from your eyes, Jahul."
"Perhaps," Syuri said.  "But this old pirate would make a poor trophy.  Too messy.  Besides, I'm not the one who does it."
"You merely smuggle the results," Larry said bitterly.
"No," Syuri said, "Killing Takki is perfectly legal.  It's hard to make a profit smuggling items that are already legal."
"But you would if you could make a profit off of it?" Larry demanded, balling his fists and taking a step closer.
Kim stepped between them.  "Are we there, Syuri?  Or did you just come here to hassle him again?"
"We've made a pit-stop," Syuri said.  "I have to leave the ship for a few hours to secure supplies.  I just wanted to keep you from worrying."
Larry's lips began to peel back.  "Forgotten told us to go straight to Grakkas, no detours."
"We needed supplies," Syuri insisted.
"They supplied us with everything we needed back home," Larry growled.  "Are you trying to double-cross us, Jahul?"
As Kim examined Syuri with her second consciousness, a pocket of denseness caught her attention and she moved through layers of clothing, into Syuri's flesh.  She found her ball of ruvmestin firmly embedded in Syuri's digestive system, with his stomach juices sluicing around the metal, trying to dissolve it in vain.  Kim frowned.  The way it was pressing against the bottom of his stomach chamber looked painful.
Syuri snorted.  "Don't be an idiot.  The last thing I'd do is cross Forgotten."
"Syuri," Kim said, pointing, "Why did you swallow your ruvmestin?"
The Jahul blinked at her.  Then, composing himself, he said, "Safekeeping.  I didn't want a thieving Takki taking it while I was gone."
"The Minders be damned," Larry cursed, stalking toward the Jahul.  "That's all I can stand."
"I'll be back later," Syuri said hastily.  Then, before Larry could reach him, he ducked back through the door and shut it behind him.  When the Takki reached it, he found it locked.
"The Makers curse the little centipede!" Larry snapped, slamming a scaled purple fist into the door.  It dented under the pressure.  Seeing it, Larry pulled back and prepared to ram it with his body.
"Wait," Kim said.  "Let me try."
Using her mind as a knife, she cut a thin line all the way around the door, converting every material in her path into water.
The door fell away, giving them access to the rest of the ship.  Larry stepped inside, scowling around the interior.  "He's not here.  Must have gone out the airlock."  He started after him.
Kim gave the exit to the ship a trepidatious glance.  "Do we have to go after him?  I don't think he's going to betray us."
"The weasel was up to something," Larry growled.  "I could see it in his beady black eyes."
"We don't know what's out there," Kim said, running to catch Larry's hand before he could activate the door to the ship.  "We should just wait here."
"Screw that," Larry said, punching the buttons to open the door.  "I'm tired of his crap."
As soon as the door fell away, Kim's breath sucked in.  The area outside was filled with hundreds of aliens, reminding her of the halls of Koliinaat.  She recoiled, shrinking back inside the ship.
In front of her, Larry was only momentarily slowed.  He took a breath, eyes following the passing creatures with alert curiosity, then he ducked his head and stepped into the hallway.
Immediately, a lumbering four-armed giant stumbled over him, landing on the floor in an embarrassing sprawl.  Larry apologized and held out a hand to help him, but the giant ignored him and, when he got back to his feet, he flung out one of his clawed fists out and smashed Larry across the face, sending him tumbling to the other side of the hall.
"Ignorant Takki!" the giant shouted in Congie.  Then it began screaming in another, deep-chested language that cleared a space in the passerby, leaving Larry alone with the giant.
Kim saw Larry's look of fear as the giant bore down on him, and she quickly intervened.
"He's mine!" she shouted at the giant.  "You hurt him and you pay for him!"
The four-armed giant hesitated, then glanced back at Kim.  "This piece of filth is yours?"
"Yes," Kim said, going to Larry and helping him back to his feet.
The giant watched her, then snorted, "The fool's a Takki lover."  He bit out another curse in his native language, then casually shoved Larry back to the ground and strode away.
"I'll kill him!" Larry snapped, jumping to his feet.  "I could've broken that bastard in half!"
"Don't," Kim said, panic enveloping her at the stares the aliens in the hall were giving them.  "Let it go.  We need to get back to the ship."
"Screw that!" Larry shouted, starting after the giant.  "I tried to help him back up and he hit me."
"Larry!" Kim snapped.  "Let it go, all right?  You won't help anything by getting yourself killed."
"Are you kidding, Kim?  I could've have pulverized that thing."
"And then Peacemakers would have killed you," Kim agreed.  "Come on.  Let's go back to the ship."
"No," Larry said, looking at the throngs of travelers around them.  "This is interesting.  I want to see more aliens."
Kim could tell by his voice that he would not accept 'no' as an answer.  "Fine," she said, "But stay behind me, all right?  Like Forgotten told you to?"
Larry snorted, but did not object when Kim stepped in front of him.  "Where are we going?"
"I don't know," Kim replied.  "What do you want to see?"
"Everything," Larry said.  "This is fascinating."
Kim rolled her eyes.  "You just got knocked down and almost killed and you think it's fascinating."
"He didn't even come close to hurting me," Larry said.  "Just made me mad, that's all."
"But you're better now," Kim warned.  "So we'll just go back inside."
"You mean you'll go back inside.  I'm staying out here until the centipede returns." 
Kim winced.  "Fine.  But we've got to stay close."
"Take me to a bar or something," he said, clearly unwilling to cooperate.  "They have those here?"
Kim, who could read only minimal Congie despite Forgotten's efforts to teach her on the three-week voyage, said, "I think so.  I don't know if I can find one, though."
"Try," Larry said.  "I'm a social creature and you and the centipede just don't cut it for me."
"Larry, I don't think—"
"You want me to go by myself?" Larry demanded.
"No," Kim admitted, biting her lip.
"Then lead on, my fretful mistress."  He made an elegant flourish, expectantly indicating the hallway in front of them.  "All will be well."  He, as a former governor of a deep den, was used to the finer things in life, and he made it clear with the quirk of his brow-ridge that he wasn't about to allow a few aliens to spoil his fun.
Kim had the choice of leading him down the hall or letting him go alone.
#
Syuri paused long enough in a public restroom to disgorge his ruvmestin ball before hurrying to find a good Jahul metalworks.  Tsuar was one of the best places to make ruvmestin disappear, since there were always shops and agencies willing to buy the precious metal at a discount in return for misplacing the records of its origin.
Syuri strolled the streets, surveying the quality of the shops, trying not to appear suspicious.  He estimated his ruvmestin to be worth hundreds of millions, perhaps even billions, but he would settle for five mil.  He was not greedy.
He finally decided on an establishment fine enough to buy ruvmestin in bulk, but poor enough not to be under Peacekeeper surveillance.  Syuri went to the shop door and pushed it open.
Sentries, both living and electronic, glanced up as he entered.  They stood behind several layers of impermeable glass, the only thing protruding from the protective sheeting was that of their plasma guns.
A blunt-faced Jahul clerk emerged from the back rooms and strolled down the corridor of sentries to look Syuri up and down.  Apparently, he was neither impressed enough to introduce himself, nor indifferent enough to kick Syuri out.  "What do you want?"
"Do you buy rare metals?" Syuri asked.
The clerk's eyes narrowed alertly.  "How rare are you talking?"
"This rare."  Syuri pulled the ball of ruvmestin from his shirt.
The clerk didn't even bat an eye.
"It's real," Syuri said.  "Check it."
"This incident is best Forgotten," the clerk said, holding Syuri's gaze.
Syuri swallowed hard, trying to keep his internal pressure in check.  "I'll sell it for two million."
"And I wouldn't buy that for a single credit.  Leave."
"The Jreet gods damn him!" Syuri snapped.  "How much is the Geuji paying you?  Surely it can't be this much."  He waved the ruvmestin lump tantalizingly under the clerk's chin.
"You have a tic before I activate security."
"Fine," Syuri said.  "The ear-rot can't have the whole planet in his pocket."  He turned and departed.
The Jahul district was out, at least in this city.  Syuri made his way to the Huouyt section of town.  It was his last choice, but he was there for that very reason.  There was no Huouyt in the world who would not double-cross his employer, if he saw a profit in it.  Syuri picked a shop at random and shut the door behind him.
The Huouyt was with another customer and took his time getting to Syuri.  As he waited, Syuri examined the exquisite artwork, each of which was illuminated behind several layers of glass.
The Huouyt was good, almost rivaling an Ooreiki yeeri.  Syuri's confidence began to return as he waited.  There was no chance the Geuji could have predicted his entering of this particular shop.
"Can I help you?"
"I want to sell some ruvmestin," Syuri said flatly.
The Huouyt looked him in the eye and said, "That would be a bad idea."
Syuri felt like he'd been slapped.  "Excuse me?"
"Ruvmestin is best Forgotten for the time being, Jahul."
Syuri stared.  "Do you even know how much ruvmestin we're talking?"
"Does it matter?" the Huouyt said coolly.
"I don't know," Syuri said, pulling the lump from his shirt and holding it forth.  "Does it?"
The Huouyt never flinched.  "You should leave now."
Syuri backed out of the store in a panic, barely remembering to conceal his ruvmestin before escaping.  The Jreet-loving fungus bought a Huouyt.  That unnerved him more than anything else.  And not just one Huouyt, either.  Syuri stopped at three more shops in the area, and every time, the Huouyt shopkeeper showed not even a flicker of interest in his eyes as he turned him down flat.
Now more out of principle than a desire to sell his ruvmestin, Syuri continued to the Ooreiki sector of the city, then, when he was turned down at five more places, changed cities and visited the Huouyt once more.
Syuri visited twenty-three establishments before he found one that would bargain with him for his ruvmestin.  The final price was ridiculously low—one and a half million credits—but by that time Syuri would gladly have paid the difference to show Forgotten up.
Syuri returned to the ship with his pocket freshly padded with a fresh one-and-a-half million credit chit from a wealthy Huouyt family.  All he would have to do now was swipe the chit at a Preejan banking station and his money would be untraceable.  He was so elated with his minor victory against the Geuji that Syuri did not realize his two companions were gone until he was walking toward the bridge and realized the door he had locked them behind was lying on the floor in a pool of evaporating water.
A coil of dread began unwinding in the pit of Syuri's stomach and he forgot all about ruvmestin. 
Kim and the Takki had gone out alone.







CHAPTER 31: A Takki's Life
"Larry, we need to get back."
"I'm not done looking.  Besides, centipede's probably not back yet."
"Come on," Kim cried, grabbing Larry by the arm.  "Please.  I want to go.  Right now."
Takki, however, were heavy, their bodies many times more dense than that of a human, and she might as well have been tugging on a lead boulder.
All around the room, aliens were watching them, but Larry did not seem to notice.  He was intrigued by a three-dimensional mural of an alien landscape that occupied one wall of the establishment.
"I'm not ready," Larry said, ignoring her insistent tugging.  "Look at the way they lay out their cities.  It's ingenious."
"Study it later," Kim hissed.  "They're looking at us, Larry!"
Larry waved a dismissive hand at her and went back to peering at the alien landscape.  "We could apply some of these techniques in the Origin."
"How much do you want for him?"  The voice boomed through the entire room, making Kim jump.  She turned.  It belonged to a small Dhasha, only twenty or thirty years old, emanating from an expensive-looking translator hanging around his neck.  It was still as tall as Kim at the shoulder, however, and though she did not meet its gaze directly, she could feel its emerald eyes glittering with something Kim distrusted.
"He's not for sale," Kim managed.
"Everything is for sale," the Dhasha purred, padding closer.  Its scythe-like claws put small holes in the stone floor wherever he moved.  "Especially errant slaves."
"No," Kim said, keeping her eyes firmly on the ground.  "Go away."
The Dhasha stiffened.  "What did you say to me?"
At the same time, Larry decided he was finished with the mural.  He glanced up and saw the Dhasha and immediately his brow-ridges began to harden.
"Don't look him in the eyes," Kim said quickly in English, her second consciousness gliding across the liquid-soft scales of the Dhasha's face.  "Just let me handle this, Larry."
"Don't look him in the eyes?  He can't be more than thirty.  What does the fool want?"
"Just shut up, okay?  Dhasha eat Takki here, Larry."
That silenced Larry long enough for the Dhasha to roar, "Answer me!  What did you say?!"
Kim reddened, her heart pounding in her ears as she tried not to show her fear.  "The Takki is not for sale."
"That is not what you said."  The Dhasha's green eyes glittered like cold, lifeless stones.  He strode forward and casually slammed its paw into a table that stood between them, splintering it into a thousand shards of rock. 
Larry started to step in front of Kim, but she shoved him back.  "Larry, he'll kill you."
"He'll kill you a lot faster," Larry retorted.  "You don't have scales."
"Let me handle it.  Please."
"Not this time, Kim."  Larry bodily picked her up and lifted her out of the way so he could look up at the Dhasha.  "Tell him what I say.  Whoever you are, we're just here to—"
Larry's words ended abruptly with a metallic scraping sound that ended in a wet gurgle as the Dhasha slapped him with a paw.  Larry stumbled, his chest opened from throat to pelvis, his internal organs exposed as clearly as if she were looking at him with her second sight.
"I suppose I will not waste my time eating him," the Dhasha said as Larry writhed and gasped on the floor under his claws.  "I'd only give myself indigestion."  At that, he gave his claws one last, cruel twist and withdrew them from Larry's body, glistening purple from the Takki's blood.  He left them there, with no one in the building moving to help them.
Kim fell to Larry's side, in a state of panic.  It didn't take a Geuji to know that his wounds were mortal.  Kim fought a sense of hopelessness, knowing that her friend was about to die, his lifeblood even then leaking out onto the floor.  Even as she knelt over him, Larry's choking sounds were growing weaker, his amethyst eyes losing their gleam.
All around them, aliens had gone back to their drinks, the show over.  They had no interest in a dying Takki.
"Somebody help him!" Kim cried.  "Call a doctor!"
Though she shouted in Congie, none of the aliens moved.
"A doctor!" Kim screamed, throwing a bloody piece of splintered stone at the indifferent crowd.
"Doctors don't treat Takki," the Ooreiki shopkeeper said.  "You should've let the Dhasha eat him.  At least then we wouldn't have to clean up the mess."
Kim touched Larry's hand, her second consciousness sinking into the tears in his flesh.  The devastation she found there made her cringe.  She could almost feel his life force leaking from the wounds all around her.
Then she remembered Forgotten's voice.  What about to heal him?
I can fix him, Kim thought suddenly.  She plunged into the cuts, focusing until time seemed to stand still.  She could feel it now—all she had to do was pull the flesh back together, mend the tiny branching tubes, fuse everything back in place like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle.
I have to move fast, she realized.  She could even then feel his life seeping away with every thunderous beat of her heart.  She focused on his damaged organs, concentrating until her heart seemed to wait a century between beats.  Her whole world focused into the glistening purple maze of the Takki's inner workings.  Cell by cell, tube by tube, Kim repaired the Dhasha's damage.  Larry's internal organ began to mend, the muscles of his abdomen pulled back into a sheltering pouch, and his scales fused back together, armoring the muscle.
When she was finished, the only evidence that the Dhasha had attacked was a slick of violet blood on the floor and the pathetically shallow rise and fall of Larry's scaled chest.
A noise behind her made Kim turn.  The entire patronage of the bar was on its feet, watching her with a mixture of confusion and fear.  A table of seven black-clad Ooreiki Peacemakers had emptied and they were moving toward her, their eight-pointed stars ringed with planets and gleaming on their chests.  Kim realized in that moment that she had made a mistake.  She stood slowly, her second consciousness still cradling Larry's internal organs, willing them to continue working.
The Peacemakers stopped at the edge of the gathering and stared down at Larry, their stony faces betraying nothing.
"You wasted nanos on a Takki?" the closest one said, sudah fluttering in its neck.
Kim bit her lip and willed Larry to wake up.
"Answer him!" another Peacemaker snapped.  When she didn't, he growled, "What is your ID number, citizen?"
Behind them, Syuri broke from the crowd, hurrying toward her on all six legs.  He seemed to take in the broken table, the blood, the Peacemakers, and her shock, and paused, pulling himself onto his back legs.  "He's a Huouyt," he told the closest Peacemaker.  "And a stupid one, at that."
But the Peacemakers were not so easily persuaded.  "Who are you, Jahul?" the one nearest Syuri demanded.  "Why do you speak for the alien?"
"My name is Garmund and I speak for the biped because, even though she is as stupid as a half-formed niish, she is my charge and her very wealthy family pays me and the Huouyt well to babysit her."
"Poor job you've been doing."
"Yes, I know," Syuri said.  "But if you ever have the opportunity to supervise rich, willful youngsters, you will understand."
That seemed to disarm the black-clad Ooreiki slightly.  "What is she?" one of the Peacemakers asked, peering at Kim.  "I've never seen anything like it."
"Almost looks like a Takki without the scales," another agreed.
"She is also a Huouyt," Syuri said, "And this is one of her more absurd patterns.  The poor creature does nothing but sit around and invent stupid shapes in her head."
"Does she have a permit to wear that pattern?"
"Didn't you just hear me?" Syuri said.  "The creature's as retarded as her brother.  Fortunately for all of us, they have very wealthy parents, both of whom are always more than willing to provide a generous reward for rescuing them from the Dhasha.  With all the time they spend bartering for ruvmestin on Grakkas, they can't spend much more than a day or two with them at a time."  Syuri handed over a small card.  "With her parents' compliments, my friends.  I will suggest they put in a good word with the governor about your outstanding service here.  Standing up against a Dhasha—that took extraordinary bravery.  Worthy of a Sixth Hjai."
The Peacemaker holding the chit suddenly made a grunting sound and his sudah began working like wings in his neck.  His head snapped up, now staring at Syuri in shock.  "One and a half million?  Is this for real?"
"Of course," Syuri said.  "I've already set it up for transfer—all you have to do is enter in whatever ratios the seven of you decide is fair and route it to your desired accounts."
One of his companions snatched the card away from him and touched it against a sensor in the wall.  Small green symbols flashed on the screen and all seven Ooreiki stared at them with dilated pupils, Kim and Larry forgotten.
Syuri stepped close to Kim, one eye on the Peacemakers.  In a whisper, he said, "Can you carry him?"
Kim shook her head.  In front of her, the Peacemakers were now arguing amongst themselves.
"You," Syuri said, jabbing a finger at a colorfully-dressed Ooreiki who until that point had been watching the proceedings with disinterest.  "Do you like ruvmestin?"
The Ooreiki's eyes widened and he nodded.
"Then today is a good day for you," Syuri barked.  "Come pick up the imbecile on the floor and help us carry him home."  He pulled the ruvmestin bead from inside his shirt and tossed it at the Ooreiki.  "Hurry."
The Ooreiki blinked at them, then quickly bent to throw Larry over his shoulder with a grunt.
"He's heavier than I thought a Huouyt should be," the Ooreiki muttered, straining under the weight of the Takki.  "I thought Huouyt were skinny bastards."
"Silence," Syuri snapped.  "Kim, lead us out."
Kim jumped to do as she was bid, gingerly stepping around the arguing knot of Peacemakers.
"Thanks again," Syuri shouted to the Peacemakers, once they were at the door. 
The Peacemakers didn't even look up.
"Hurry," Syuri whispered, nudging her forward, into the busy corridor outside.  Then, with a purpose, he scurried forth between the moving throngs of alien travelers, leading them down the hall and away from the bar.  He continued to glance behind them as they went, urging them onward until they stood within the confines of the ship itself.
"Appreciate it," Syuri told the Ooreiki he had hired.  "Go buy yourself a yacht."
"Your generosity will not be Forgotten," the Ooreiki replied.  Silently, he pulled a large white lump of metal from under his clothing and handed it to Syuri.  Then the Ooreiki bowed low, and, swinging the bead casually into his clothing, left the ship.
Syuri stared at the ruvmestin in his hand, then at the doorway, the greenish splotches on his skin growing darker.
"Is that the one I made for you?" Kim asked.
"The corpse-rot," Syuri muttered, tucking the enormous ball under his arm.  "Kim, stay with the Takki.  I've got to get us off this planet.  We can talk about your punishment for leaving the ship later."
"Our punishment?!"  Kim's eyes fell to the Jahul's ball of ruvmestin.  "Where are the supplies you were getting for us, Syuri?  And why did he have the ruvmestin I made you?  Did you try to sell it?  Forgotten told you not to sell any ruvmestin I made—that it would ruin everything."
The Jahul stiffened.  "Then again, accidents happen, especially with headstrong Takki leading the way.  Dinner will be in three hours.  Try to make sure the lizard is there in time to eat."  'Lizard' was a word that Syuri had gleefully taken from Earth's vocabulary, upon learning of the cosmetic similarities between Takki, Dhasha, and Earth's humble reptilian denizens.  Then he hesitated at the door.  "How did you save him, anyway?  I don't see any wounds.  Did Forgotten give you nanos?" 
"I made him whole like I made your ball of ruvmestin," Kim said.
She watched Syuri blink at Larry a moment.  "You...healed him?  Like a regen chamber?"
"I don't know what that is," Kim said.
"It's a very expensive piece of electronics available only to the ultra-wealthy and our esteemed Representatives on Koliinaat," Syuri said.  "It prints new flesh, with as little genetic damage from solar radiation exposure or chronic chemical damage as you wish, if you can afford it."
"I just put his pieces back together," Kim said, confused.
"Just put his..."  Syuri hesitated, staring at her, then at Larry.  Then, without another word, Syuri wandered back to the helm, muttering to himself.
Kim watched him disappear, then her gaze fell back on the Takki.
I saved his life, she thought with a rush of pride. 
She sank her consciousness under the protective layer of violet scales and felt the individual muscles working around her, each much denser and stronger than those in a human.  She made a quick examination of the seams she had created while fixing the Dhasha's damage and pulled away grinning.
I saved his life and I can do it again.







CHAPTER 32: Of Gods and Love
Syuri sat fiddling with his ruvmestin orb, once again fighting panic.  He dialed Forgotten's feed and felt a massive wave of relief when the Geuji picked up.
"Your nerves getting to you, old friend?" Forgotten asked.
"Something's been bothering me about all this," Syuri said, by way of introduction.
"How I managed to buy off the Huouyt metalsmiths?" Geuji offered.
"The Humans aren't paying you," Syuri said.  "You said on Earth you weren't having them make that planet for you, and I've never known you to lie."
Forgotten, who never projected an image onto the comm, went oddly silent.
"If you're destroying all the ruvmestin and you're not interested in a planet, what are you getting out of this?"
Quietly, Forgotten said, "I don't suppose you'd believe me when I said 'friends'?"
Syuri considered that.  Then, shaking his head, he said, "That's not it, because you've been my best friend for almost seven hundred turns and you've never once mentioned wanting more."  Frowning, he continued, "I probably know you better than anyone in Congress, and something's not adding up, here, Forgotten.  What are you getting out of helping these Humans?"
"They offered to make me a planet—"
"Oh, to hell with the damn planet!" Syuri snapped.  "We both know you'd sooner lock yourself in a cell on Levren than trap yourself on one stationary rock."  He squinted at the blank comm screen.  "What's your game here, Forgotten?  I feel like I'm on the cusp of figuring it out, and that Kim girl has something to do with it."
"Was that before or after your nutrients?" Forgotten asked.
"After," Syuri admitted.
"Good.  Try not to think about it too hard."
"But Forgotten—" Syuri began.
"Because," Forgotten went on, "it's as you said.  You are the one who knows me best in all the universe, and if you figured it out and Sky likewise discovered my plan by reading your mind in passing, I lose everything I've hoped for since I learned what I was."
"Everything...you hoped for."
"Yes."
Syuri.  He knew, from many random calls in the middle of an empty week when Forgotten had summoned him just for a chat or a game of dice, that Forgotten's one true fear was being alone.  "So you're—"
"Just let it go," Forgotten said.  "Please, Syuri."  Though the distance was too far to pick up anything with his sivvet, there was an agony in the Geuji's voice that Syuri had never heard before.
"Don't do anything stupid, old friend," Syuri finally managed.
"That's a statistical improbability," Forgotten said.
Syuri hesitated, something about the Geuji's words making him feel a pang of dread.  He remembered the guilt that had emanated from the Geuji whenever he was explaining his plan to the Humans, off and on for the entire time on Earth.  At times, the guilt had been intense, and it had the tinge of someone who knew he was doing wrong, someone who was taking advantage of a lesser creature for his own gain.  "Back on Earth, I—"
"I know you felt it," Forgotten said.  "I was watching you the whole time, mentally begging you to keep your mouth shut.  Please don't say anything."
The odd desperation in the Geuji's voice left Syuri with a pang of fear.  Whatever Forgotten was doing, he played a dangerous game.  One that left him afraid of the outcome. 
And for a Geuji to be unsure of the outcome...  Syuri found himself compelled to say, "You'd better not disappear in some incinerator crate at the end of this, old friend.  I still expect to beat you at dice on the regular."
"Technically, you beat yourself at dice," Forgotten quipped.  "I just watch."
"I'm serious," Syuri insisted.  "You better not be trying to sacrifice yourself like last time.  If I even get a whiff of that, I'm turning this ship around and coming back to you."
There was a really long pause, then Forgotten said, "Was that all you wanted, Syuri?"
"Forgotten..."
"I really need to get back to work."
"Forgotten, I'm serious," Syuri snapped.  "Don't you dare leave me after all this.  You're the only thing that makes Life worthwhile."
"Your family is safe from Peacemaker's attentions," Forgotten said.  "If I fail, you'll have them to occupy your time." 
"My family doesn't know me," Syuri interrupted.  "They look at me as a burden, some criminal who happened to add some genetic material.  I'm the reason they're being hounded by Peacemakers.  They like me for the ruvmestin I drop off every few rotations, not my personality.  I'm lucky if I get ten, fifteen tics with them before I have to escape Peacemaker sweeps again.  My grandbabies call me 'that stinky old conman', and two guesses who gave them that idea."
"It's never too late to make up for lost time." 
"You're my family, you insufferable corpse-rot."
"Syuri..." Forgotten hesitated.  "You're my best friend.  You've made these last six hundred turns bearable.  If I deliberately intended to end my life, you'll be the first to know."  And then, without another word, the feed was cut.
Meaning Forgotten fully expected to die.
Syuri felt his gorge rising, considering that.  He knew he couldn't stop it, if that was the Geuji's intent, but it made him want to turn the ship around and go straight back to Earth.
Instead, a few hours later, Syuri found himself secluded in a private booth in a seedy Jahul vice den, indulging in the temporary bliss of a karwiq bulb, trying not to think of losing his best friend when he should have been refueling their ship to pilot it to Grakkas.
He was halfway through his first bulb when Larry and Kim showed up at his booth, ushered there by a curious-looking Jahul.
"What are you doing?" the Takki demanded, reaching past the intricate wooden privacy barrier to grab the karwiq bulb and sniff it.  Immediately, he threw it back to the table, purple snout scrunching, and retched.
"He's getting high," Kim said, her eyes slightly unfocused.
"I'm getting high," Syuri said, retrieving the bulb from where the lizard had thrown it.  "Go back to the ship.  I'll return soon."
"I can't believe Forgotten saddled us with this two-bit criminal," Larry growled, regaining his composure.  "He can't even keep a schedule."
Syuri waved a hand dismissively.  "I'm sure Forgotten calculated my deviancies into his plans."
"What if he didn't?" Kim demanded.
Syuri cut another slice from the bulb and held it over the open flame, then put his mouth around the glass chimney over the fire and sucked in the resulting black smoke.  He had to hold it in his air chamber for longer than, say, an Ueshi due to the lack of capillaries to efficiently absorb the chemicals, but karwiq was one of the few drugs strong enough to get even a Jahul high.
"Dobbs' balls, that smells disgusting," Larry said, gagging again and backing away.
"Syuri, we need you to come back to the ship," Kim said.  "It's been three days."
Three days?  Syuri could've sworn he was only on his first bulb...
"The owner said you got here yesterday," Kim offered.  "Are you okay, Syuri?"
Yesterday...  Then he remembered.  He'd spent a day in another den, before getting kicked out for ranting about the unfairness of the world.  He frowned, dizzy, realizing that only accounted for two.
"Forgotten doesn't want the planet," Syuri said.  "He wants..."  He squinted.  For a moment, the knowledge seemed to flicker through his brain, then was swept away again on a rush of euphoria.  "Bliss."  He squinted at Kim.  "Her."  Did he want her?  What did a god want, anyway?  A god that could have anything, aside from simple feet.  "Gods are like Trith," he said, feeling philosophical.  "One can no sooner see inside their minds than they can see—"  He froze, frowning, his gaze catching on the Human's pretty green eyes.  "...love."
The Takki had narrowed his eyes.  "Let me punch him, mistress."
"No."  Kim turned from the Takki to look back at him.  "Syuri, you're acting a little crazy."
Syuri, whose mouth had fallen open with the epiphany, nodded.  Still watching her, he began to cut another piece of karwiq.
"Oh fuck this," Larry snarled, grabbing the karwiq bulb and hurling it across the room, where six different patrons of the place immediately scrabbled to claim it.
"That was two hundred credits," Syuri said, wistfully.
"Get up," Larry said, grabbing Syuri by his throat.  "We're going back to the ship."  Then, with all the respect one would give a bag of excrement, Larry hauled him out of the booth and dropped him on the floor of the common room.
"Careful," Kim said, noticing the odd looks that a Takki had dared to lay a hand on another species.  "Remember what happened last time."
That seemed to cut away some of the Takki's enthusiasm and he glanced around them with anxious lines to his purple face.  Then, hovering over Syuri, the lizard nudged him none-too-gently with a foot.  "Get up, scumbag."
"It's love," Syuri giggled, crawling on his knees back towards the booth and the two bulbs he still had inside.  "He's looking for love..."
"Syuri, I could get rid of that chemical in your system..." Kim offered.
"No!" Syuri shrieked, on a wave of horror.  Already, his epiphany was sliding back into the abyss, and he knew that without his supplements, he was going to forget within the hour.  "Lizard, take a note!  Gods need love.  It's the one thing they can't force.  It's loooooove."  He started giggling as he crawled.
For a long moment, Larry stared down at him.  Then, turning to Kim, he said, "Do it."
"Gladly."
A moment later, Syuri was totally, depressingly, stone-cold sober.  "No!" he cried, struggling to remember his last epiphany.  "No, I needed that!  It was the key!"
"Sure it was, bedbug," Larry said.
"What was it I just said?!" he demanded, grabbing Kim by the leg in desperation.  "Just now.  It's the key."
"Right.  The key.  Let's go, centipede."  Larry bent down to grab him by the wrist again.
"No!" Syuri cried.  "Kim, what was it?  What did I say?  I'm three days without my nutrients and my mind is a fog..."
"Something about gods and love," Kim said dismissively.  "Can you walk or does Larry need to carry you?"
Gods and love.  Syuri blinked, then sat back hard on his hind end as it all came rushing back to him.  Gods.  Love.  He stared up at her in shock.
Squinting at him, Larry said, "Are you sure you got rid of it all?"
"Don't see anything left," Kim said.  "Syuri, can you walk?"
"I..."  Syuri swallowed hard.  "I just need a bit of time to digest this."
"You're not digesting anything," Kim noted.  "You haven't eaten in days.  All you've got in your stomach is that metal ball."
"No, no, no," Syuri said, brushing off her words disgustedly.  "Give me time.  I have to wrap my head around this.  I don't think the fool is killing himself, after all.  This is great news!"
"That's it," Larry said, grabbing Syuri by the neck and hauling him to his feet.  "We're going.  Now."
"Help!" Syuri cried in Congie.  "This Takki is assaulting me!  Fifty credits to my rescuer!"
Every head in the room came up.  As soon as they did, Larry released his grip reflexively, bathing Syuri's sivvet in a wave of fear.  "You didn't..."
"A karwiq bulb to anyone who lands a solid punch to his face," Syuri said, glaring directly into the Takki's sapphire eyes.
And, with his words, the room exploded in an uproar.  Larry had only a second to narrow his eyes and say, "I'll get you later, insect," before he grabbed Kim and ran.
Giggling, Syuri climbed back to his booth.
He was displeased to find Rri'jan Ze'laa sitting inside, fondling the lumpy brown texture of one of his remaining bulbs.  Syuri cursed himself for not having checked to make sure the booth was empty because his sivvet registered the booth as unoccupied.  No emotion.  Cold.  Dead.  Psychotic.
"Sit down," the assassin said.
Syuri glanced in the direction of his two companions.
"I'll get them later," Rri'jan said, motioning for him to take a seat.  Looking almost amused, the Huouyt said, "they're not going anywhere without you, are they?"
Syuri felt a pang of fear for his friends, but sat down.
"I was listening to your chatter, Jahul," Rri'jan said, languidly picking fibrous brown bark from the bulb in his hand.  "Is Forgotten...in love...with that Human?"
Syuri felt every waste chamber he had purge itself over his skin.
"I'll take that as a yes."  The Huouyt pulled out a knife and began carving slices of brown skin from the bulb, dropping them onto the table as his oblong, fishy eyes watched him over the knife.
Forgotten would kill him.  He was dead.  Simply dead. 
"And that," Rri'jan said, "is probably the most interesting thing I've been told in a Sacred Turn, Jahul."  Then, lightning-fast, he made a flipping motion with a tentacle and Syuri felt a little sting on his chest.  He glanced down at the tiny sliver embedded in his chest.
"Now," Rri'jan said, as he stood and moved to close the privacy partition hiding them from view, "tell me more.  How invested is he?"
"It's just a hunch," Syuri said, now nervously watching the knife.
"It's a good hunch," Rri'jan said, coming to stand over him.  "Not the one I came to, but probably more accurate, considering I can't fathom how you disgustingly simple creatures form your social bonds.  Tell me more."
Syuri frowned.  A Huouyt was, after all, an infinitely more intelligent creature than the Jahul.  "Wait.  What did you think he—"
Rri'jan casually wadded a tentacle and slammed it into Syuri's gut.  "I'll ask the questions, Jahul."
The blow almost burst a chamber, and Syuri reflexively regurgitated the ball of metal that had been sitting in the pit of his gut for the last three days, surrounded in a pool of sticky green digestive fluids.
The Huouyt's electric-blue eyes locked on the ruvmestin as it thunked against the floor and rolled to one side, and his face gave an interested flicker.  "Ah.  So that's what this is about.  He's making ruvmestin."  The Huouyt reached out and plucked a tissue from the dispenser on the table and bent to carefully wipe digestive juices from the sphere. 
Then Rri'jan picked up the ball from the floor to examine it.  "How many of these did he make?"
"Just that one, as far as I know."
"Then this must be absolutely pivotal to his plan," Rri'jan commented, appreciating the glossy, near-white surface as he twisted it this way and that in the dull red lighting of the karwiq booth.
"Pretty sure it's not," Syuri muttered, with a grimace.
"It must be worth billions."  Rri'jan hefted it admiringly in front of Syuri.  Then he cocked his head.  "Pity." Syuri's gut sank as the Huouyt casually dumped it into the waste receptacle behind him.  Syuri's gut clenched as he heard it rattle and thunk down the chute to whatever trash collection bin awaited it at the bottom.  Whatever poor schmuck collected trash that night was about to become very, very rich...
"Hopefully it doesn't kill him in the fall," Syuri thought bitterly, already imagining the slack-jawed new owner dragging his prize out of the trash.
Rri'jan gave him a curious look, then said, "It's been a long time since last time, Jahul.  You like my new poison?"
"Feels pretty much like the others," Syuri muttered.
Rri'jan's eyes watched him closely.  "Time has not been kind."
"I know," Syuri said.  "I got old.  Can barely fit in doorways anymore.  What do you want?"
"What do I want."  Rri'jan gave an amused snort and paused to flick a piece of karwiq bulb aside.  Already, it was turning from a pale sandy color to an oxidized purple, which made it useless for psychotropics.  Syuri felt a pang of regret, watching the slice darken to uselessness.  Rri'jan, oblivious, started to cut another piece.  "I want the Geuji, the humans, and the Takki.  But mainly I want the Geuji."  Rri'jan cocked his head.  "Is Forgotten on that ship, Syuri?"
"No," Syuri said.  "It's a drone."
Rri'jan's eyes darkened with anger.  "Another one."
"Yes.  Are you going to let me go?"
"Ah.  A good question.  Do you know where Forgotten is, Syuri?"
"Last I knew he was on Earth."
"So the Betrayer has made more friends."  Rri'jan tisked.  "I'll have to destroy them, too."  He flicked another purpled slice of bulb.  "But later."
"You're wasting a perfectly good bulb," Syuri noted.
Rri'jan stopped, mid-slice, and watched him with his dead, fishlike eyes.  His breja revealed nothing physically, but Syuri's sivvet picked up his wash of rage nonetheless.
"You've got some serious pent-up anger in there, Huouyt," Syuri noted.  "Have you ever tried one of Janufa's pleasure planets?  I've heard they can cure things like that."
Silently, Rri'jan set his knife and the impaled karwiq bulb aside, then leaned forward until the upholstery creaked.  Only inches from Syuri's face, Rri'jan casually said, "I promised Forgotten over six hundred turns ago that you would die screaming, Jahul."
"That's a long time for you to have kept failing," Syuri noted.  "Aren't you Va'gans supposed to kill on the first attempt or you've gotta pay some blood debt or something?"
Rri'jan went totally stiff, and Syuri found himself grinning.
"Yeah, that's right.  You owe anyone you don't kill.  Something about cheating death.  Don't I get to ask for a favor that you have to fulfill?"  He cocked his head, wishing he could remember the specifics that Forgotten had told him.  "How many are we on now?  Doesn't this make six?  Don't you owe me six favors or something?"
For a second, Syuri thought that Rri'jan would just concede, but the Huouyt continued to watch him placidly.  "If you can't recite the ritual words, it's not applicable, Jahul."
He's developed some restraint since last time, Syuri thought, amused.
"I'm not allowing you to bait me into another mistake," Rri'jan said.
"Like last time," Syuri pointed out.
He thought Rri'jan would hit him then, but the Huouyt, amazingly, kept his distance.  Smart.  "Like last time," he agreed.  He started fiddling with the vomit-stained upholstery.  "I'm told you're bragging about evading me in the past in gambling dens when you're deep in your drink."  He said it casually, almost like he didn't care, but Syuri felt his inner chambers constrict again.  That had been a pretty regular occurrence, despite Forgotten's warnings that he was making it harder to keep himself off the Huouyt's scanners.
"Maaaaaybe," Syuri allowed.  "But I'm sure a few of those were other people pretending to be me."
"Right, because you are so...admirable..." Rri'jan said, making a disgusting gesture at his filthy, stinking body, even then crusted with a mixture of waste and dried sexual juices.  "Everyone must venerate your greatness."
"I have survived five meetings with the universe's best assassin," Syuri said.  "Allegedly the best."
Again, he thought Rri'jan might lunge at him, but the Huouyt had been learning.  Instead, he kept a wary distance.  "It's true you've made our previous meetings...inconvenient."  Rri'jan gave him a measuring look.  "That's why I've decided to end it this time.  Forgotten didn't take his bargain with the Huouyt seriously.  It's time he starts reaping the rewards of that, starting with his best friend."
Syrui scoffed.  "Forgotten always takes his bargains seriously, Rri'jan.  Maybe you didn't read the fine print."  If there was one thing about Forgotten, he honored his bargains.  That, and he never lied.
Never, not once in all of the time Syuri had known him, had the Geuji lied to him.  Misled him, true, but that was a given when dealing with a creature with more brainpower in one gram of his being than Syuri had in his entire head.  But lied?  No.
That made his mind start to struggle again, reminding him of that conundrum that had been bugging him these last three days.  Forgotten never outright lied.  He did want something from the Humans, something that only they could provide, but he hadn't lied about it.  He seemed to remember something from earlier, some epiphany before Rri'jan had startled him...
It was painful, struggling to remember.  Was Forgotten going to ask the humans to build two planets?
"You seem distracted, Jahul."  The Huouyt lifted one of Syuri's hands and began playing with the fingers.  "Is this conversation not gripping enough for you?"  He retrieved his knife from the karwiq bulb, allowing it to gleam in the light between them.
Remembering Kim's metal digits, Syuri felt a rush of anger, but kept it in check.
"I'm just confused," Syuri admitted.  "I know there was something we were discussing earlier that was important and I can't place it."
"Old age getting to you, Syuri?  I hear it has that effect in some lesser species."
"I'm without my nutrients, if you must know."
"Poor thing."  The Huouyt lightly touched the knife to the back one of Syuri's joints.  "We were talking about how Forgotten owes me a blood debt for what he did at Neskfaat.  One I plan to extract with the flesh of his friends."
"No, no," Syuri said quickly.  "It was something else.  The Takki got mad at me for it."  He could only vaguely remember Larry grabbing him by the throat...
"You mean how Forgotten's in love?"
"That's what it was!" Syuri cried, triumphant.
Syuri grimaced as the knife cut through his finger.  Then, "I need to write this down before I forget again.  Do you have a pen?"
"The Humans made this much more pleasant for me," Rri'jan said, watching him closely.  "Perhaps I should move on to something more dear to you."  He lay the tip of his knife under Syuri's eye.
"Just write, 'Epiphany: Forgotten's a love-sick fool,'" Syuri said.  "Yeah, that should do it."
The blade did not sink into his cheek, as he would have predicted.  Instead, it lifted and the Huouyt leaned forward until his glowing blue-white eyes were but inches from Syuri's.  "Tell me where Forgotten is."
"What'll you do if I can't?"
"Watch you die in the most exquisite agony you've ever experienced."
Syuri snorted.  "I believe you're already going to try to do that."
"Try?"  Rri'jan snorted.  "I can execute you silently in a public place, with witnesses literally two digs away."  If anything, Rri'jan seemed to be getting off on that knowledge, enjoying it, savoring it.  Leaning forward, he whispered into Syuri's ear, "Silent, utterly agonizing ways."
Syuri considered.  "Okay, okay." 
Rri'jan waited.
"I believe I saw him wrangling a kreenit somewhere between here and Koliinaat.  You might want to check with his secretary.  Maybe he'll ride an asteroid over for a chat."
Rri'jan's eyes hardened.  "Very well, Jahul.  Goodbye."  He leaned forward, arm extended as if in a lover's embrace.
Syuri spun away and slammed his fist into the blubbery pouch in the center of the Huouyt's stomach.  Then, as the assassin was falling, Syuri grabbed the paddle-like tentacle Rri'jan had been about to touch him with and slapped it against Rri'jan's face.
The assassin went stiff.
"It was nice seeing you again, Rri'jan.  I've wondered how you were."  Syuri yanked a pen from Rri'jan's pocket, and, once he'd ascertained it didn't do something nasty like explode or fire darts, snagged a piece of tissue from the dispenser and wrote, "Forgotten needs to get laid."  He frowned, pretty sure that wasn't the original idea he'd wanted to keep, but the rest had been fading so quickly that all was left was dull whispers in the back of his mind.  He turned the note to face Rri'jan.  "Is this what we just talked about?"
"I'm going to peel your chambers out and use them to water my plants."
"You have plants?" Syuri asked, surprised.  "I've gotta say, I wouldn't have thought you the type to nurture something."  Syuri went to the waste bin to check to see if his ruvmestin had, by some miracle, stayed within reach.  The chute echoed hollowly around him as he dipped his upper body in and continued, "That whole killing people for fun and everything."
To his amazement, the ruvmestin was still there.  It had wedged itself against some other resinous, burned karwiq trash that was stuck at a Y in the chute, arresting the fall.  Very carefully, Syuri leaned down into the receptacle and retrieved his ruvmestin from the mess.  As soon as he brought it out, he wiped off the sticky black karwiq tar with Rri'jan's shirt.
"But...how?" Rri'jan whispered, his breja struggling as he no doubt fought to contain the poison that would have killed any other.
"I don't know," Syuri said, squinting at the ball.  "Just lucky, I guess."
"How did you resist my poison, fool!"
Syuri turned back, cocking his head at Rri'jan's enraged expression.  "Oh, that?  I've been taking antidotes to all your favorite poisons ever since Forgotten told me you were coming to get me.  I call it part of my daily 'nutrient supplement.'  Less questions that way."
"You were never paralyzed?"
Syuri snorted.  "Hell no.  Forgotten's been buying me so many antidotes I'm doped up to the gills.  Could save a small village just by giving a blood sample."  He paused.  "How long have you been following me?"
"A week," Rri'jan said.
"Oh, it was a truth serum, too, wasn't it?  Wily bugger."  Syuri grinned and tapped his head.  "I thought I'd felt something out there following us.  Good to know this old pirate's danger sense is still intact."  He leaned over and removed the digit Rri'jan had cut off from the assassin's pocket.  He pressed it back to his stub and felt the brief sensation of suction as it reattached.
"Why did you let me take your finger?"  Rri'jan looked furious.
"I'm a creature of charity.  You looked so...dour.  Like you needed the entertainment."
The Huouyt's eyes hardened.  "I'm going to make your death so painful it becomes a myth to my people.  Your screams will resonate within the halls of history, your—"
Syuri yawned loudly.  "I've heard this speech before.  Goodbye, my irritatingly persistent foe.  I hope you get that anger thing figured out. I'll have to do some research on that Va'gan Death Wish thing.  You know, for next time."
"Your children will burn when I—"
In reply, Syuri wrapped his jaws around the ball of ruvmestin and swallowed it again.  As Rri'jan's expression became stony at the odd sounds he made ingesting the ball, Syuri said by way of apology, "It always gets stuck halfway down."
"Are you tormenting me, Jahul?"
"Tormenting?  No, it just got stuck."  He patted the Huouyt on the shoulder.  "Anyway, I've gotta get going, so I'll just leave you there to explain yourself to every creature that comes in to smoke karwiq for the next four hours."
Rri'jan's electric blue-white eyes were like lightning.  "You will regret it."
"Oh give up," Syuri said, turning to the door.  "You've had almost seven hundred turns to get me and Forgotten.  Count your losses and bow out before you piss him off." 
He left the assassin hunched on the floor of the bathroom and caught the first shuttle back to Forgotten's drone.  He was not surprised to find it still at the dock.
Larry was standing at the entrance, fists balled, rage emanating from him in a painful flood against his sivvet.  "I owe you a beating, Jahul."
Syuri grabbed the Takki by the shoulder and pulled him inside.  "Time to go," he said, punching the airlock.
"You're gonna get yours, insect.  You wanna do this here, or you wanna do it with witnesses?"
"Later," Syuri said, waving him off and locking the airlock.  "For now, we need to figure out which one is Rri'jan's ship and get Kim to sabotage it."  He looked around the cargo bay.  Now where would he put a tracking device? 
"Wait," Kim said, standing nervously from the crate of supplies she'd been sitting on.  "Did you say Rri'jan is here?"
"Yes, but your old pirate friend has it under control."  Syuri walked over to a small triangular panel awkwardly placed under the stairs and yanked it open.  Inside, he found the telltale black repeater.  Once he'd determined it wasn't explosive, he yanked it out with a cloth.
"Do not touch this," he warned.  "There's a ninety-nine percent chance the tricky Jreet poisoned it.  Kim, check the ship for anything else that looks like this.  He was tracking us with it.  Check inside and out.  If you find one, destroy it.  I've gotta go have a chat with the Port Authority."  And then, as his two companions stared after him, Syuri went to figure out which ship he was going to have Kim put a few holes in.







CHAPTER 33: Discovery
Fred was leaning forward in his Regency seat, watching every eye-twitch, every sudah-flicker, every zora-flutter with rapt attention.  Earlier, he would have found the political maneuverings between the Grand Six—the Jreet, Huouyt, Ooreiki, Dhasha, Ueshi, and the Jahul—much too far above his station to even pretend to follow them. 
Now, though...
"Mullich."
Fred jerked at the voice at his shoulder.  Rakken was there, elegantly poised on four back legs, his robes carefully concealing the fact he was one of the only six-legged sentients in Congress.
"Yes?" Fred said, standing.  He bowed, offering the formal Congressional courtesies, even though the creature probably despised him.
"What do you know of lifestones?"
Fred frowned at the conglomerate Congie word, having to translate it in his mind back to English before he made the connection.  His pores prickled with goosebumps and he forced himself not to reach up and hide the cross he wore.
Rakken reached under his robes and retrieved a small, black pouch, which he opened and laid upon his mottled green palm for Fred's perusal.  Inside, glittering gems lay nestled in black velvet.  Fred's breath caught as he wondered where the Jahul had gotten his hands on Sky's lifestones.  "They come from Earth," Rakken said, closing his hand over the pouch.
"I know," Fred said.  His every muscle was tense and he was ready to order the Watcher to bring him back to his room in an instant, before the Jahul could accuse him before Congress.
"A new wonder drug," Rakken said.  "Gives feelings of elation and ecstasy without the usual side-effects."
Fred nodded, though he was confused, now.  None of the lifestones Sky had shown him had done that.
"What will it take for you to give me the recipe?"
Fred frowned.  "Recipe?"
"For the stones," Rakken insisted.  "There must be some chemical they exude, some magnetic or electrical or yet-unknown force they emit.  I want the technology, human."
"I can't give it to you," Fred said, though at that moment he wished with all his heart he could.  If Rakken was willing to approach a minor Representative so openly, the Jahul was obviously willing to go to great lengths to obtain it.  Perhaps even vote for Fred on the upcoming Trade ballot.
"Name your price," Rakken insisted.  "The Jahul control half of all Congressional shipping, both legal and otherwise.  There is nothing I could not get you."
"I can't," Fred said, truthfully.
Rakken cocked his head at him, his black eyes studying him.  "Zepwe said you wouldn't.  Very well.  I will return once I've acquired the Trade chair.  Then perhaps we can bargain."
Fred nodded, relieved.  As he watched the Jahul disappear, he said, "Watcher, return me to my rooms, please."
"I'm sorry, Representative Mullich," the Watcher replied.  "Your request cannot be entertained at this time."
"Excuse me?"
"Your domicile is currently the subject of a Peacemaker search," the Watcher said.
Fred felt something constrict in his chest.  "Where is Sky and Sjilak?"
"Sky is under restraint in Peacemaker headquarters, Deck 37.  Sjilak's location is undisclosed."
A cold sensation began trickling down Fred's back, giving his skin a sickeningly slick feeling.  "How is Sky?"
"Sedated," the Watcher said.  "Though his bodily systems are functioning normally."
"Sedated?" Fred whispered.  "What do they know?"
"I am not at liberty to say, Representative Mullich.  I apologize for the inconvenience."
"Take me to Peacemaker headquarters immediately," Fred ordered.  He was pretty sure he could get Sky out of prison, as long as the Peacemakers had not yet discovered his abilities.
"I apologize, Representative Mullich.  You are to remain inside the Regency until the search is over.  I was given orders by the Twelfth Hjai and the First Citizen themselves."
Sharp tendrils of pain shot out from Fred's heart, spearing his innards.  He slumped into his chair, deflated.  Only Sky's cross kept him from descending into outright hysteria as the pressure built around him.
The First Citizen and the Twelfth Hjai.  The one Representative who had never left his seat on the Tribunal in over two million turns of Congress...and the head of the Peacemakers.  If they were involved, it meant they knew what Fred and Sky had been planning.  It meant Sky's plan had failed and they were doomed.  They were probably studying Sky at this very moment, determining the best way to kill him.
Verbhan blinked into existence beside Fred's chair and began striding toward him immediately.  "Someone betrayed us, Human.  Peacemakers captured the Minder and are even now searching your apartments."
Fred nodded numbly.
"Get up!  We must retrieve him immediately.  If Congress discovers—"
"If Congress discovers what, Representative Verbhan?"
The powerful Ooreiki's head snapped around, his pupils narrowed in anger.  What he saw, however, made his sudah give a frightened quiver.  "Jer'ait Ze'laa.  What brings you here?"
Fred stood up and spun, the name driving wedges of fear into his gut.  The highest-ranked Huouyt Peacemaker watched them both with his lopsided gaze—like some of the poorer Huouyt, he had been born with a defect that left his left eye an unnatural purple, contrasting his normal, electric, white-blue right.  The Twelfth Hjai had never bothered to have the Watcher correct it, nor did he take the time to shift the coloring in his eye to a more normal color.
As the Twelfth Hjai stared at Fred now, he felt all the power behind the purple eye complimenting the authority of the right, like a team of interrogators working in tandem—one represented danger, the unknown, while the other represented safety from the first.  Huouyt had an uncanny ability to stare down anything but a Dhasha with only their gaze alone, but this was worse than anything Fred had seen before.  It left him so thoroughly unnerved that he had to remind himself that he wore Sky's cross.
"Fred Mullich, you are accused of harboring a dangerous criminal in your domicile."  The Huouyt leaned forward and reached under Fred's shirt, making his entire body tense.  When he realized what the Peacemaker was reaching for, Fred tried to stop him, but Jer'ait already had his paddle-like tentacle wrapped around Fred's necklace.  He tugged hard, snapping the clasp.  When he pulled it away, he was careful to only touch the chain, not the cross itself.  "And of carrying contraband materials."  Jer'ait held Fred's gaze, showing not even a flinch of emotion.  "Your trial will take place this afternoon before the Tribunal."
Fred felt his breath whoosh out of him in a wave.
Jer'ait nodded at the two Ooreiki Peacekeepers beside him and they surged forward, taking stinging grips on his arms.  They began to give orders to the Watcher.
"Stop," Verbhan said.  "What evidence do you have against him?"
The Huouyt glanced at the Ooreiki with a visible insouciance toward the Representative's power.  "You'll discover that during the Trial, Verbhan."
#
Kim watched Syuri's internal pressure climb as he stared at the three-dimensional map of the Yeejor system, which was on their route to Grakkas.  Beside it, Yeejor's multitude of security features were helpfully being highlighted by the ship's AI.  Several different chambers within his body were again threatening to overload and spew rancid juices over his skin.  She backed away immediately, unwilling to watch another Jahulian pollution, even in her second sight.
"Kim, what does Forgotten have to say about this?" Syuri asked, still staring at the map.
Kim, who hadn't talked to Forgotten since she'd banished him from her mind on Earth, nonetheless said, "He says do whatever feels right."
"Whatever feels right," Syuri muttered.  "He won't return my messages.  Why won't the janja slug just come out and tell me what he wants me to do?  I'm sure he's got it all figured out already.  Why does he have to put a poor old pirate under so much pressure?"
"He's an asshole," Kim said.
Syuri blinked at her.  "I think that's the first time I think I've heard you swear." 
"Yeah?  I hope he gets fucked."  And she meant it, too.  What she'd done to Fire had been a burning rage in the pit of her gut, and to know the Geuji had intended for it to happen was eating at her with each passing day.
"Hope he gets..." Syuri mused.  Then, blinking, he pulled out a scrap of tissue paper and blinked at it, then blinked at her, then blinked at the paper again, his beady black eyes going wide.
"What?" Kim demanded.
"Nothing," Syuri said, quickly folding the tissue and stuffing it back into his pocket before she could make out the pen marks.  "I just realized what this damned note to myself meant."
"Yeah, well, it's true."  Kim sat down and leaned against the wall.  "I'm still doing this stupid plan because I told Sky I would, but Forgotten's dead to me."
Syuri blinked his beady black eyes at her.  "That's...unfortunate."
Kim jerked her head back up to glare at the Jahul.  "Why?"
He balked.  "He just...um."  He swallowed and touched the pocket of his coat.  "I believe he might think of you very...fondly."
Kim snorted.  "Once this is over, I hope that conniving slime mold crashes into an asteroid."
Syuri blinked at her, looking confused.  "What did Forgotten do?"
"He got me to trust him."  She settled back against the wall in disgust.  "Let me know when you've come up with a plan."
Syuri looked like he wanted to say more, then reluctantly turned away to once more examine the three-dimensional planetary map, tracing the routes with his froglike fingers.  He eventually just dropped his hands and backed away from the screen.  "It's impossible.  There's no way in.  Yeejor is sealed off as tight as a queen Jreet's lair.  And twice as dangerous."
"Well, there must be some way in," Kim said.  "Otherwise he wouldn't have sent us."
"There's no way in," Syuri repeated.  "They've got three thousand ships on constant alert all the way around the planet.  Six different types of surveillance.  Cameras that can take your picture through ten feet of a ship's hull.  Weapons so high-tech they could fry us crispy and serve us up on a stick while their operators sat back and watched.  The only ships that get onto Yeejor—and I mean the only ships—are military ships.  We might as well go back."
"Why can't we just stow away on one of their ships?" Kim asked, pointing at the vessels traveling in and out of the system on the map.  "Like Sky and I did?"
Syuri snorted as if she'd said something stupid.
"What?" Kim demanded.
"This is a Congressional ruvmestin planet.  We can't just stow away.  That's what amateurs do, right before they're executed."
"Then you have a better idea?"
"Jreet hells, girl, charging in with guns blazing is a better idea than stowing away.  At least they'll kill you quickly that way.  You don't want to know what kinds of things they do to stowaways around here before they kill them.  The military is a lonely place, way out on Yeejor.  They've gotta find something to do to keep themselves entertained."
Kim winced.  "Then what do you suggest?"
"I have no suggestions," Syuri muttered.  He glanced directly at her as if she were a walking, talking comm set.  "Forgotten, you insufferable corpse-rot, now would be a good time to help us."
"I don't think he's going to," Kim said.
"So," Syuri said, "He wants me to beg?  Fine.  I'll beg.  He wants me to apologize?  I'll apologize.  You outsmarted me, you moldy lump of excrement.  I shouldn't have tried to sell the ruvmestin after you told me not to.  I was dumb.  An idiot Jahul.  Just another sextuped without his nutrients."
Kim winced.  "That's not what I mean."
"Oh," Syuri said.  "So begging and apologizing is not enough.  Forgotten wants me to grovel."  Syuri snorted.  "Fat chance of that, you poisonous fungus.  You're my friend, not my master.  I owe you dice on the weekends, not risking my life so you can have a good time.  So what if you brought my family to Earth?  I didn't ask you to do that.  Perhaps I should just go back and visit with them, eh?  After all, I haven't seen them in turns.  Why waste my time chasing Peacekeepers and babysitting mutant Takki when I can go home and be happy, eh?"
"What I mean is I destroyed the thing Forgotten put in my brain."
Syuri's blotchy skin darkened to a hunter green and his mouth fell open.  "What?"
"We're on our own," Kim said.
"But..."  Syuri stared at her, froglike jaw completely agape.  "Why would you do something like that?"  He sounded like she'd murdered babies.
Kim shrugged.  "I didn't like him in my head."
The Jahul focused on the hovering stars, looking dazed.  "I don't suppose you got any last-minute instructions from him."
"I don't think he ever planned on giving us any."
"Can you put it back?" Syuri asked.
"Maybe, but why would I want to?"
"Put it back!" Syuri cried.
"Don't want to," Kim said, getting indignant now.  "You put him in your head.  I'm done with it."
"You're done—" Syuri stammered.  "Child, you really have no idea how dangerous this is, do you?"
"Don't call me a child," Kim snapped.
"You're eighteen turns," Syuri retorted.  "I'm seven hundred and forty-six!  Don't give me that 'don't call me a child,' child." 
Kim sniffed, trying not to show her surprise at their companion's age.  The Jahul was so...squishy...he'd just reminded her of something that didn't live very long, like a frog. 
Syuri continued with a disgusted sound.  "Forgotten's not answering his comm and you destroyed our backup in an infant's tantrum.  I want to put this as gently as possibly, but you fucked us like a Jreet trying out a new tek on a herd of melaa."
"Careful, insect," Larry growled, getting up from his place beside Kim.  "I still owe you a beating."
"She is gonna get us killed," Syuri snapped, pointing at her with a suction-cupped green finger.  "Hell, she may already have!"
"Could we bribe them?" Kim said.  "I could make ruvmestin."
Syuri snorted.  "Peacemakers can't be bought."
"Forgotten bought them."
Syuri jammed a finger into the side of his head.  "Do I look like Forgotten to you?  Does my head look like a fuzzy wad of black slime?  What makes you think this suffering old pirate has the sort of mental capacity to arrange that sort of deception?  We'd have to buy hundreds, just to get past the front door."  He jammed a froglike finger at the tiny ships moving back and forth from the image of Yeejor.  "The only way we're going to get on that planet is if one of those ships flags us down and invites us aboard.  The chances of that happening are approximately the same chances of teaching that Takki to watch his mou—"
"Hail, Tradelane."
The crackle of the console in front of Syuri made him blink.
"What's that mean?" Kim whispered, stiffening.
"It means a military ship with a lot of very big guns has got us in its sights and it's moments from blowing a hole in our hull," Syuri whispered, staring at the comm with wide black eyes.
"What's a gun?" Kim demanded, vaguely remembering the term from history class.  "Is that like that thing Joe Dobbs used to protect the People?"
"Sweet Hagra crush my skull in the righteous fist of a mother Jreet," he muttered, staring at the ceiling.
"I'd do it for free, bedbug," Larry said.
"I looked up what a bedbug is," Syuri snapped, turning on the Takki.  "It looks nothing like me."
"It has six legs and a tiny head," Larry retorted.
"Enough!" Kim cried, desperate now.  "Answer them, Syuri!"
"What do I say?!" Syuri cried.  "Hey, guys.  Yeah, we don't have clearance to be here, but we were hoping you'd show us around anyway...?!?!?!"  He flailed his front arms dramatically.  "We've been hanging out just out of sensor range.  That's not suspicious at all. Blood of the Jreet...  They're going to kill us!"
"Hail Tradelane, is anyone at the helm?" a nervous voice on the other end called in Congie.
"How do you know it's the military?" Kim whispered.
"It's the common band for the Yeejor area," Syuri said.  "I've squelched everything more than thirty skymarches from us."  He was about ready to flood another chamber, and this time, the results would be explosive.  Kim backed away from him, wary of the last time he had been so pressurized he squirted unmentionable fluids upon the walls from hyper-pressurized back pores.
"So what's a tradelane?" Kim asked.  "Is that what we're trying to get onto?"
"We're the Tradelane," Syuri said.  "It's Zepwe's ship.  And we're not Zepwe!"  He looked frightened.  "We should leave.  If they board us and find Zepwe gone, they'll think we stole it."  He checked a screen and cursed in Jahul.  "Twenty marches and closing.  Sweet Jreet gods, girl, they've found us.  Hold on.  I'll get us out of here."  He scuttled to the captain's chair—which was really just a glorified banana for the arrogant Jahul Trade Alliance's president to lay back in for a massage while his assistants did the hard work—and sat down.  He pulled the console over the chair and began prepping the ship for a rapid departure.
"Hail, Tradelane, permission to mate?"
Kim's face scrunched.  "Permission to mate?"
"They want to board," Syuri said, fingers flipping agilely over the console.  "The airlocks interconnect and lock in place."
"So why don't you let them board?" Kim asked.
"Are you insane, biped?" Syuri laughed.  "We'd be as screwed as a Jreet who died without killing something."
"Why?"
Syuri jammed a finger at the screen showing a dark blob approaching them.  "Because that, my dear, is a Peacemaker ship.  If we let them mate with us, we'd have no way to escape if things went wrong—and things would go wrong.  Things always go wrong with those parasites, even if you aren't wanted criminals planning the biggest heist in history.  Now go sit down.  Tradelane is a fast little doll.  She's got kick.  She's—oh sweet Jreet gods."
"What?"
"That's an Ueshi hull.  Tsuar-built.  A pirate-chaser."
Kim pushed her consciousness through the cold hardness of the ship hull, endured the sudden, disconcerting emptiness on the other side, and sank into the other ship.  She felt the complex living bodies on the other side and moved through several layers of metals and composites to reach them.
What she saw surprised her.
"It's the Peacemakers," she said, blinking.
"Yes, I know."
"No.  The ones from the bar."
For the second time that morning, Syuri lost control of his inner pressure.  Kim wrinkled her nose.  Larry groaned and stepped away from a new smear on the wall.
Syuri quickly activated the com link, allowing a small Ooreiki head to take shape on the console above him.  Kim recognized it as the Ooreiki who had taken the money chit from Syuri.  "Just got back to the helm.  What is the problem, sir?"
"From the way you are skulking out here, Jahul, someone might mistake you for a pirate."
"A pirate?  At Yeejor?"  Syuri laughed.  "He'd have to be mad."
To Kim's surprise, the Ooreiki laughed with him.  "You don't have to wait out here, if you don't want to, Jahul."
Syuri stopped laughing.  "Excuse me?"
"We'll gladly take you to Yeejor."
"You...will?"
"Of course.  We just received word your rendezvous ship has been delayed."
"It has?"
"They found better prospects on Grakkas, for the time being."
"They did?"
"It will only be temporary.  Price fluctuations.  They had a sudden shortage of ruvmestin in this part of the Territory that drove up the raw price.  I guess the Bajna stepped down from the Trade Commission and everything's gone to shit.  All the Bajnan governors left, too.  Whole species on strike.  Everyone's frantic, trying to sort it out.
"Oh...kay..." Syuri said.  He cast Kim a sideways glance that said, I have no idea what's going on.  Kim tightened her mental hold on the central fuel cylinder of the core of the ship.
"Your friends will be getting their product from Grakkas," the Ooreiki on the comm said.  "The idiots in that sector somehow carried their zeros wrong and now they've got a dozen times the ruvmestin they need.  Every trader with half a brain is rushing to that sector to snap it up.  It won't last long, though.  Yeejor is still by far the most productive.  The shortage in the area was just a fluke."
Syuri said nothing, staring at the screen in blank confusion.
"Anyway, maintain your position so we can mate.  No use making the Flibesch family wait in a cramped little scouter when you've got a compound on Grakkas, don't you agree?"
Looking a bit shocked, Syuri said, "Absolutely."
#
"Fred Mullich, you stand before the Tribunal accused of harboring a dangerous criminal and using illicit devices in order to sway Congressional votes.  You—"
"Are you trying to tell me I was not in my right mind when I made my vote, Kragkhen?"
The observation decks overlooking the Tribunal proceedings roared with life.  Kragkhen turned to glare at Daviin, who was towering over him and Aliphei, his brilliant cream-and-scarlet glimmering proudly in the brilliant light of the Tribunal room.
"That's exactly what I'm saying," Kragkhen said.  "This creature was using a telepath."
"Who is now quite thoroughly contained, is he not?  Shall we cast another vote, Kragkhen?  Or are you threatened by the Human?  You think he'll take your place for chair?"
"Calm yourself, Jreet," the First Citizen said tiredly.  "Your vote is not on trial here."
"Good," Daviin said, "Then the second charge is dropped."
"The second charge remains!" Kragkhen snarled.
"Unless you can prove the device works—and I have examined it, Kragkhen, and found nothing amiss—you cannot accuse him of a crime he has not committed."
"You have seen his behavior these past months!" Kragkhen snapped.  "You have watched him confront Kaj'nol and myself."
"All of which point to the fact he has finally found his spine, not that he's been altering our thoughts."
"He forgot his place," Kragkhen rumbled.  "He is the most powerless Representative in Congress.  His people number less than a quarter billion.  His planet does not even rank as a proper civilization.  He has no right to approach us as he has done."
"Any Representative has the right to bring you imbeciles down a peg," Verbhan snorted from the watching crowd above.  "I say we commend him for succeeding where the rest of us have failed."  A huge wave of alien laughter spread through the Regency at that.
"Silence!" Aliphei snapped.  "The onlookers will remain silent or I will close the viewing boxes!"  The First Citizen turned his small red eyes on Fred.  "Jer'ait, bring me the device."
The Peacemaker calmly strode from the prosecution's corner and bowed deeply, dropping the cross onto the podium in front of the First Citizen.
The First Citizen touched the chain with a huge, furry paw, making Jer'ait flinch.  Still, the Huouyt retreated to the other side of the room, saying nothing.
Aliphei lifted the cross from the podium and dropped it into his paw.
"Your Excellency," Kragkhen interrupted, "Perhaps it would be best if you did not touch it.  Our scientists have not yet managed to discover its secrets."
Aliphei's padded blue fingers clenched into a huge, stubby fist.  "What secrets, Kragkhen?  This is the same exact same artifact Mullich wore the day he arrived here.  Am I correct, Watcher?"
"Yes, your Excellency."
Aliphei snorted and held the cross out for Jer'ait, who took it and retreated once more.  "Then tell me, Kragkhen, what makes you think it holds mystical powers untraceable by our scientists?"
"I have a source, Aliphei," Kragkhen growled.
"Then bring him forth, and let him speak before Congress," Aliphei commanded.
"He is indisposed."
"Then the second charge is dropped."
Fred felt a flush of surprise.  It was the more devastating of the two charges, the one that would have gotten him removed from Congress and executed as a traitor.  The fact that Kragkhen refused to bring forth his source left Fred confused—either Kragkhen was guessing, making it all up, or his source itself implemented the Dhasha in an even worse crime.
"And the first crime?" Daviin asked.  "Telepaths are a well-documented, if a rare and unsavory phenomenon.  He committed no crimes."
"No crimes?!" Kragkhen choked.  "The telepath was in his room."
"Which proves nothing," the big Jreet snapped, unfurling some of his huge ruby coils.  "Remember, Kragkhen, that we, in essence, brought the creature to Mullich.  He did not actively seek him out.  In fact, the only time he's left Koliinaat in the last sixteen turns was a week ago, to scout out a new Human training area with Verbhan."
"So he did not search him out," Aliphei said.  "That does not lessen the fact that he hid him from Congress."
"Search my room," Daviin snorted.  "Or Kragkhen's room.  You will find plenty of things we hide from Congress.  That is, after all, why they are inaccessible to everyone but the Representative and his guests.  How did you gain the authority to search his room, anyway, Kragkhen?  Is another Representative's domicile somehow less sacred than your own?  Perhaps we should throw out the Congressional Code entirely and start randomly searching every Representative's chambers."
"I had good cause," Kragkhen growled.  "He was harboring a dangerous criminal."
"As are you.  Every fool and his mother knows you spend time with that janja worm Rri'jan whenever he'll deign to meet with you.  When was the last time you dealt with your assassin, anyway, Kragkhen?  Was it not about the same time a Huouyt arrived at Peacemaker headquarters disguised as a Trith?  How did he get that shape, anyway, Kragkhen?  That has yet to be explained to me."
Visibly flustered, the Dhasha said, "We are not on trial here.  The Human is."
"Exactly my point," Daviin said.  "Mullich, tell us how you plead to this first charge so the stuffed vaghi over there can finish wasting my time."
For the first time in the proceedings, the Tribunal turned to Fred.
Even without the cross to strengthen him, Fred stood tall on the accused dais.  "Not guilty."  Behind him, the Ooreiki lawyer that Verbhan had lent him gave an approving nod, the documents he had used to brief Fred on his rights still stacked on the table behind him.
"Why?" Daviin insisted.
"Because it is within my rights to protect an innocent member of my race seeking asylum."
"Innocent!" Kragkhen snarled.  "He is telepathic!  He coerced my assistant into betraying us!"
"That couldn't have been very difficult," Daviin said.
"He was innocent," Fred said.  "He has committed no crimes."
"He fled an Ooreiki ship," Aliphei reminded him.
"He was kidnapped," Fred replied.  "Taken against his will.  Attacked by Kragkhen's assassin—"
"You have no proof!" Kragkhen interjected.
"His eye is missing now, when it wasn't in Kerjia's care," Aliphei noted.  Turning to Jer'ait, he said, "Peacemaster, what do the records show about that wound?"
"How he got it is a mystery," the odd-eyed Huouyt responded dispassionately.  "All observation devices in a hundred-dig area for forty tics around the incident were mysteriously wiped by a Tribunal member's personal assistant code."
"Which Tribunal member?" Aliphei snapped.
Jer'ait inclined his head at Kragkhen.  "The Dhasha Representative, my esteemed First Citizen."
"You lie!" Kragkhen snapped.
"It's looking less and less like that's true," Aliphei stated.  Nodding at Fred, he said, "You may continue.  You were telling us why you gave this Human asylum."
"He was never Drafted," Fred said, "never commissioned.  Congress had no legal hold on him, other than the fact we detained him upon our ship.  You can't punish him for not succumbing to the usual coercion—it's the military's fault that the brainwashing failed before he could sign the proper paperwork to legally seal his service to Congress."
Kragkhen stiffened on the podium.  "But a bulletin was put forth in an entire quadrant."
"I never saw it."
Orange saliva began to leak from Kragkhen's mouth in his rage.  "But you knew it."
"I knew of it.  I never saw it, nor was given the details.  After all, why would he come to Koliinaat?"
"Why, indeed," Aliphei said.  "What did he tell you, Human?  What happened to his companion?  Are there more like him on Earth?  The scientists have found his telepathic ability to be quite mild, but precautions must be made that humanity does not—"
"Evolve?" Daviin interrupted.  "Perhaps you forget, Aliphei, that the greatest races in Congress each have pushed their species beyond the understanding of science."  At that, he flickered out of existence, leaving nothing but an empty Tribunal seat in his spot.
"Enough, Daviin," Aliphei rumbled.  "A disappearing act is one thing.  Extrasensory abilities is another.  We do not want Earth to become another Trith."
Daviin laughed and reappeared.  "You two didn't come here to try Mullich.  You came here to try the telepath, who did nothing wrong except spook the both of you."
"His very existence is an abomination," Kragkhen said.  "We must go to Earth to make sure there are no more like him."
Daviin snorted.  "Any janja slug can see you're simply looking for an excuse to turn Humans into the next Takki.  You've had a vendetta against them for what they did to Mekkval, and Mekkval himself harbored no hard feelings—until he was found dead with Human undergarments in his mouth.  Why else would you insist on traveling to Earth to oversee first contact, if it weren't to ensure Humanity never re-incorporated as full citizens?"
"This is ridiculous," Kragkhen snapped.  "I'm hiding nothing.  Try the Human and be done with it."
"If you hide nothing, why won't you reveal your source?  We shall close the observer decks, if you require it.  Or are you afraid your assassin might enter the chamber still bloody from his last murder?"  Daviin lowered his voice in harsh amusement.  "After the way the imbecile arrived at Peacemaker headquarters the last time, I'd be afraid of that, too."
Kragkhen twisted to face the Jreet and Daviin raised his neck high above the ground, glaring down at the Dhasha with the full force of his yellow stare.  Had the First Citizen's shaggy blue bulk not been positioned between them, Fred thought they might have come to blows.
"Enough," Aliphei said.  "Daviin, your vote."
"Release him," the Jreet said.  "This is just the Dhasha's way of ousting the competition."
"You dare suggest that scaleless Takki could compete with me?!" Kragkhen roared.
"A crippled janja slug could compete with you."
"Kragkhen," Aliphei said.  "Your vote."
"Try him," Kragkhen snapped.  "And then execute him."
Aliphei peered at Fred over his ebony tusks.  "Representative Mullich, do you have any last words for me before I cast my vote?"
This was where the Ooreiki lawyer had counseled him to disavow all relationships to the telepath and offer him as a gift to Congress for testing and, if the scientists found it necessary, extermination.
Fred, however, could not bring himself to say the words.  He stood in silence on his platform, mind racing, unable to speak.
"See how poorly he functions when he's not shaping our thoughts for us?" Kragkhen sneered. 
Fred stood tall and stared directly into the Dhasha's eyes.  "In your case, Kragkhen, I would be doing you a favor, were that actually within my abilities."
Daviin made an amused chuckle, but Aliphei simply watched Fred, waiting.
Fred felt a fleeting fear, but his reflexes quickly took over.  "And yes, your Excellency, I do have something to say.  Once you have pardoned me and Kragkhen has apologized for this outrage, I would like the Human Jer'ait has in his custody sent back to Earth with Congress's apologies.  I believe we have confused the poor creature enough.  Not six months ago, he was still scraping a living in a small town without access to even the most basic utilities.  The entire experience has been a nightmare for him and he deserves that and more for escaping the whole of our military and making a fool of the disgraced Representative Rri'jan Ze'laa at his own game."
Aliphei was silent so long Fred began to have second thoughts.  He was just about to deflate and beg forgiveness when Aliphei said, "Is that where the human lost his eye?"
"Rri'jan Ze'laa took it from him," Fred agreed.
"Using powers of immunity that Kragkhen apparently granted him."
The Dhasha's slick rainbow scales flattened against his chest, but Aliphei forestalled him with a raised blue paw.  "There were two humans that escaped that ship, Mullich.  Have you seen the other?"
"Yes," Fred said.
"Where is she?"
"She disappeared the day Sky humiliated Rri'jan by sending him to the Peacemakers in the form of a Trith," Fred replied.
Aliphei cocked his head.  "Watcher, is he telling the truth?"
"I would have told you if he were lying, Excellency."
The silence that followed the Watcher's statement left Fred's hair on end from the power behind the stares focused on him.  "I cast my vote with Daviin."
Kragkhen made a disgusted snort that rolled over his rows of triangular black teeth and looked away.
Aliphei continued, "You are exonerated of any wrongdoings, Mullich.  However, two things concern me about this case."
"Yes?"
"The first, of course, is the telepath.  Can you plainly tell me, Mullich, that you have no knowledge of there being any others like him on Earth?"
"Yes, I can," Fred said, thinking of Sky's unparalleled powers.
"Watcher?"
"He tells the truth, Excellency."
Aliphei nodded.  "The second thing that bothers me about this case is the exception the Watcher has seemed to have made for this telepath.  Nowhere in its programming can we find a reason behind it.  The mere fact that he survived long enough to arrive in your chambers is alarming.  It makes me wonder if he's somehow found a glitch in the system, a back door.  For that reason, Mullich, I cannot allow the telepath to return to Earth.  In fact, as soon as our scientists are finished examining him, he will be executed."
"You can't destroy his memories?" Fred demanded.
"I'm sorry, Mullich.  I am sure you developed some sort of attachment with him, since the Watcher's documents tell us he was with you for more than two rotations.  I can understand your desire for friendship, since you have been devoid of human companions for six hundred and sixty-six turns.  Still, the risk to Congress is too great.  Our enemies could seek him out and possibly find a way to back-engineer his memories, find the key he discovered.  Thus, he must die.  This session is over."  Aliphei began to stand and Verbhan's lawyer rushed forward to congratulate him.
Fred frowned.  "Daviin is right."
Aliphei paused as he disembarked the dais.  "Excuse me?"
"Daviin is right," Fred repeated.  "He scares you.  That's why you're not going to release him.  You want him dead because he's got you spooked.  Everything else is just an excuse."
"Your friend will die," Aliphei said.  "Provoking me will not change that."
At that, the First Citizen departed.  The Trial was over.  Fred had won.
And Sky would die.
#
Kragkhen paced his chamber in fury.  All the furniture in his path had long since been shattered or crushed, the pieces crunching under his talons as he paced.
His Takki, the ignorant creatures they were, had all fled.  Only the Trith remained.
"You told me the necklace has powers!"
"I thought it did," the Trith said.  "Sky said—"
"You thought?!" Kragkhen snarled, almost slicing the Trith open with his paw.  "You lay my reputation out without proof?!  I thought you could read the future, fool!"
"I am dealing with vortexes," the Trith said.  "I cannot read the future with two of them muddying it up.  Kill Sky and Forgotten and you will have my services for as long as I live."
"Which will be long indeed," Kragkhen growled.  "I assure you of that, Trith."
The Trith bowed his head infinitesimally.  "It's a sacrifice I'm willing to make."







CHAPTER 34: The Great Ship Robbery
"I don't like this," Syuri said, staring at the empty palace around them.  "This was too easy."
"Well, we're here," Kim said, flopping down on the pillows of the gigantic round, scoop-shaped bed.  "What do we do now?"
"This place is so beautiful," Larry whispered.  The Takki had taken up a post at the window, staring out over the city below the palace in awe.
"I don't like it," Syuri said again.  "It's never this easy."
"Would you get over it already?" Kim snapped.  "We're here.  Tell me what I need to do so we can leave."
"That's another thing," Syuri said.  "We have no ship.  How do we leave if we have no ship?  The Flibesch family will be returning.  What if the process takes Kim more than a couple weeks?  What will they do when they find us here, in their home?"
Larry snorted.  "Kim, ignore the stinking coward.  Just destroy as much ruvmestin as you can and we'll leave him here for the Peacemakers."
"I don't think you understand," Kim said.  "It would take me years to search the entire planet."
Syuri's splotches darkened and a stench began to fill the room.  Kim had long since learned to keep her second consciousness focused on the Takki or some other object in the room, so it was only her physical body that felt the need to vomit.
"Disgusting!" Larry snapped.  "Go clean yourself before you disease us both!"
"Kim," Syuri said, ignoring Larry, "You must do it faster.  We only have a couple days, perhaps a week at most, before someone realizes we're not who we say we are."
"But I can't..."  Kim sank her consciousness into the floor, through the brief emptiness of the seven stories beneath her, and into the soft black earth beneath.  She could feel traces of ruvmestin everywhere, but in such minute quantities it was only one or two connected pyramids amidst the mishmash jumble of the soil itself.  When she reached deeper, she found larger particles, though all together not even enough to fit on the head of a pencil.  In the space of two cubic meters, she found endless traces of dispersed ruvmestin.  So endless, in fact, that she had no chance of changing it all.
"Where do I start?" Kim whispered.  "There's so much of it."
"Start at a mine," Syuri said.  "You can find them by finding a Trosska.  They're always underground, digging."
"What's a Trosska?" Kim asked.
"Looks like a scaleless Takki," Syuri said. 
"Jahul, if you insult me one more time—" Larry snapped, balling a heavy purple fist.
"It's not an insult, fool," Syuri said, scuttling away from him.  "I'm describing them.  Small.  Orange.  Bipedal, though they tend to walk on all fours when they're underground, and they've got sharp tusks."
Kim shook her head.  "It doesn't help if you describe it.  I have to feel it."
"Well, I suppose they have a slightly leathery feel, if you get under their carapaces.  Their front claws are as sharp as razors and their shells are built like the armor of a grounder tank—"
"Go take your brain supplements, centipede," Larry growled.  "The People 'feel' with their second consciousnesses, not with their fingers."
"Oh.  But I could never get a Trosska to come here.  They hate the surface."
"Even if I found a mine," Kim said, "It would take me forever to change everything inside of it.  I don't know what you want me to do."
"Maybe you should have thought about that before you cut your connection to Forgotten," Syuri snapped.
Kim felt a sudden wave of shame and looked away.  Syuri was right...  It had been stupid to sever their only line of communication once they were off the ship.
Immediately, Syuri's face softened.  "I'm sorry.  It's this place.  I was Drafted as a child and they sent me to Grakkas to serve out my years as a grounder and everything—even the air—is bringing back bad memories.  Ruvmestin air has a weird bite to it, and it's giving me flashbacks.  All I can think about is what they'd do to me if they found me here.  We're not on Grakkas, thank Hagra's sweet blue cheeks, but they might not take the time to extradite me.  They like to make examples of deserters."
"I know something about Makers," Larry said.  "What don't you understand, Kim?"
"How does Forgotten expect me to change everything?" she whispered.  "It's a planet.  I don't know if I could change it all if I had my whole life to do it."
"You can do it," Larry said with complete confidence, "Or Forgotten wouldn't have sent you here."
"I know, but..."  Kim closed her eyes, focusing on the ruvmestin around them.  The deeper she went, the more she found, but still not even enough to cover the face of a speck of dust.  "Does he want all of it changed?  Even the tiniest pieces?"
"He said all of it," Syuri said.
"But that will take forever," Kim whispered, meaning it.
"Then you'd better get busy," Larry said.  "You've got two days."
#
"I was never told I couldn't visit him," Fred said, somehow finding the will to face the Peacemakers without Sky's cross.  It had 'disappeared' after the Trial and, though Jer'ait had been furious at the lapse, none of his officers could find it again when Fred came to claim it.
I'm on my own now, Fred thought, feeling another twinge of panic.  At the Trial, he had simply fallen back into his habit of standing up for himself.  Now, though, with no relief from Sky in sight, he felt his nerve buckling.
The Seventh Hjai Peacemaker, an insectoid alien Fred did not easily recognize, said, "We were never given orders to allow you inside."
"Were you given orders banning my presence?" Fred demanded.
The insectoid alien hesitated, its antennae twitching.  "No," it said finally.
"Then let me in.  I would see my friend before he is executed."
"We were warned about possible rescue attempts," the Seventh Hjai replied.  "And were told to deal with them in kind."
"Then deal with them," Fred said, "And let me see Sky."
Still, the Peacemaker hesitated.  "There's not much to see.  He is unconscious—has been so ever since we captured him.  Rri'jan's orders."
Fred flinched, reddening.  "What does the assassin have to do with this?"
The Peacemaker ignored his label for the Huouyt and said, "Rri'jan was the one who discovered the human's presence on Koliinaat."
"You mean he was the one who maimed him."
"He was defending himself."
"Rri'jan poisoned him, immobilized him," Fred retorted.  "Sky was helpless as he took his eye."
The Peacemaker began to show his irritation.  His antennae gave a dismissive flick and said, "Representative Mullich, I have personally witnessed the devastating power of which this creature you claim is your 'friend' is capable.  Before we suppressed him, he spoke within one of my officer's heads.  Frightened the Jahul so much he shit himself."  The Peacemaker wrinkled his nose, his disgust clear. 
Fred tried not to show his surprise.  If that's all they've got him for, I wonder what they'd do if they knew what he's really capable of.  He cleared his throat and said, "What did Sky say to him?"
"Does it matter?" the Peacemaker demanded.  "In all of the universe, only a Trith shares that ability.  And we both know what will happen if Earth begins to be compared to Trith.  Just let it alone, Human.  Accept that he must die for the greater good and leave it at that."
"I want to see him," Fred said again.
The Seventh Hjai snorted and stood.  "You can leave now, Human.  If you have a complaint, file it with the proper committee and begone."
Fred fisted his hands.  It had been many centuries since he had done violence, but now, standing before the indifferent Peacemaker, he knew himself capable.  "I'm not leaving until I see my friend."
"Unfortunately, in that, you are wrong."  At that, the Seventh Hjai called two large Ooreiki into the room, each of whom took one of Fred's arms in a tight, stinging grip and began leading him into the hall and out of the Peacekeeper headquarters.
Though he knew it was pointless, rage pushed Fred over the edge, making him kick out at the Ooreiki holding him.  The two Ooreiki, clearly not expecting someone as distinguished as a Congressional Representative to fight them, fell back in bewilderment, clearly afraid of hurting him.
"Get out of my way," Fred snapped, adrenaline burning in his chest.  He felt like a frayed wire about to snap.  When he tried to push past the Ooreiki, however, one of them grabbed him by the neck and tugged him down.
Choking, Fred let loose a string of expletives and kicked out at his aggressors.  Out of the corner of his eye, he saw one of the two preparing a sedation device, which made Fred kick all the more wildly, thrashing and screaming on the floor like a madman.  The second Ooreiki knelt beside him and, as the other held him down, moved to affix the device to his forehead.
"Stop."
The single word froze the two Peacemakers like a cold wave of liquid nitrogen.  They backed away from Fred like he was on fire, their sudah fluttering in something akin to fear.
Fred climbed back to his feet, panting, as he turned to look up at the Peacemaster himself.
"Go."  Jer'ait flicked his paddle-like arm behind him, never taking his eyes from Fred.  The two Peacemakers fled back into the depths of the Sanctuary.
Fred stood, glaring at the Huouyt.  "I want to see Sky."
"And normally I would tell you to go to hell."  Jer'ait fixed his lopsided stare on Fred's disheveled appearance.  "But I lost your relic.  I will make an exception."
Fred's mouth fell open.  "You will?" 
Jer'ait nodded and turned, obviously expecting Fred to follow him.  "I was told it was your last remaining memento from Earth."
"My Bible," Fred said.  "And my Playboys..."
The Huouyt gave him an amused look and stopped.  "Then perhaps I should not feel guilty, after all?  Perhaps I should send you home instead?"
Fred knew Jer'ait was joking, but something about the Huouyt made put his every nerve on edge.  He wondered briefly if the Twelfth Hjai was trained as an assassin.  The soft sounds he made, the lightness to his motions—all left Fred's neck hair standing on end.
Fred realized that the Twelfth Hjai was studying him.  He tried not to show his nervousness as he said, "The cross was very important to me." 
"Yes," Jer'ait said, "Which is why I was furious when I found it missing.  Kragkhen, no doubt.  Or Rri'jan."
Fred shuddered at the thought of Rri'jan stealing his cross.  The idea of the assassin having something so intimate to him was almost as bad as imagining him following after Sky and taking Fred's eye.
Jer'ait continued to watch him with his purple-blue gaze.  "Don't fear Rri'jan.  The coward barely escaped me last time.  When I find him, I'll pluck his breja myself.  Justice, for that one, is long due."
"It'll never happen as long as the Dhasha Representative is granting him immunity," Fred noted.
That almost seemed to amuse Jer'ait.  "Don't be so sure, Human.  He slighted me this day.  He owes me a debt that will be repaid in blood."
"You can afford to tell me not to worry," Fred said.  "Your life isn't on the line."
Jer'ait snorted.  "Then you don't know your history, human."
"What history?"
"Rri'jan and I are brothers."
Fred blinked.  "But I thought..."  He trailed off, not sure how to finish without sounding like an ass.
Jer'ait touched the downy skin beneath his left eye.  "Rri'jan came from wealth and I obviously come from poverty?"  He lowered his arm.  "You are right, in a way.  Rri'jan took control of the family the turn before I was born.  Forced my mother and her children to live in squalor while he mismanaged the family assets.  Rose to power as a Representative of Congress.  Got the Ze'laa family tangled in the war on Neskfaat, destroyed the family name and honor.  Many of my Va'gan brothers and I swore a blood-oath to kill him.  Unfortunately, he escaped before we could gut him.  The fact he hides under the Tribunal's blessing is only a temporary stay of execution.  Eventually, one of us will find him without his protections, and he will face justice."
"Why does the Tribunal allow him to remain on Koliinaat?" Fred demanded.  "He seems an obvious security risk."
"Tribunal members and their assistants have diplomatic immunity," Jer'ait said.  "If they had to cancel it for one, they'd have to cancel it for all, and the members on the Tribunal didn't get there by being Boy Scouts."  He hesitated.  "Well, except for the Jreet."
"Boy Scouts," Fred noted.  "You know the colloquialism."
"I had a Human friend, once," the Peacemaster said.  "But like I said, don't fear Rri'jan.  I've been a target for him since before the Judgement of Earth.  I am the only target he has never managed to execute."
"You and Forgotten," Fred corrected.
Jer'ait's purple eye darkened to near black.  "Forgotten is the only one who has managed to escape us both."
The fury that radiated from the Huouyt made Fred take a step back for breath.  Looking at him, he had no question in his mind that Jer'ait was capable of the same things as Kaj'nol or Rri'jan.
"What did Forgotten do to you?" Fred whispered.
Jer'ait's electric gaze sharpened.  "He forced me to take the role of the Twelfth Hjai to protect the life of a friend.  I never wanted Peacemaster.  I loathe the job."  The way Jer'ait said it, it was akin to being eaten alive by vaghi. "I loathe it, and I've had it for over a Sacred Turn, because none of these backstabbing imbeciles on Koliinaat have been successful in assassinating me, to my incredible disappointment."  Jer'ait's tone grew dark.  "Follow me, before I change my mind."
Jer'ait led Fred into the depths of the Sanctuary, walking through the maze with complete confidence.
"Why must we walk?" Fred asked, feeling the beginnings of exhaustion at the physical exertion.
Jer'ait gave Fred an unreadable glance.  "The Peacemaker Sanctuary is the only place on Koliinaat where the Watcher has no authority."
"Not even for travel?"
"Especially not that.  If someone managed to hack the Watcher's programming—as it seems your friend has done—we cannot afford to have the Watcher transporting him around confidential areas of the Sanctuary."
"Sky did not hack the Watcher," Fred said.  "He came from a farming village on Earth.  He does not even know what a program is."
"So it would appear from our tests," Jer'ait said.  "However, something allowed him to roam freely upon Koliinaat.  Until we find it, we can't rule out his own ingenuity."
"Have you seen him?" Fred demanded.  "His 'ingenuity' is limited to putting on his pants.  Just give him a simple task and you'll see what I'm talking about."
"I've seen him," Jer'ait said.  He stopped and opened an unmarked black door in the long white hall.  Once the door had dripped shut behind him, he walked Fred to the other side of the room, where three long, rectangular windows were set into the white wall.  On the far side of them was a door.  Jer'ait motioned for Fred to look through the windows and waited.
Fred stepped forward, apprehension building inside of him.
Sky was strapped naked to a table, attached to so much machinery he looked like the organic center of an experimental cyborg.  A frown creased the Minder's brow and his entire body was jerking, pulling ineffectually against the restraints.
"What are you doing to him?!" Fred demanded.
"Ask Kragkhen.  Aliphei gave his experimentation regimen to the Dhasha to oversee as a concession for losing the vote.  I am only allowed to see the results once they are finished."
"He's harmless," Fred whispered, glancing back at Sky.  "He doesn't deserve that."
Jer'ait was long in responding.  "I'm afraid I agree with you—the fool shows little aptitude for day-to-day functions.  Had the imbecile not spoken to my officer in his head and given Kragkhen ammunition to use against him, I would have been able to override the order.  Now, however, I am forced to oblige."
Fred peered at Jer'ait.  "You sound as if you're reluctant to kill him."
"Not reluctant enough to help him disappear, Human."  Then the Huouyt's eyes softened a bit.  "But I believe you're right.  This is one of the few creatures who does not deserve to be in the Sanctuary."  He paused, glancing at Sky's twitching body through the darkened glass.  "I can only hope his death comes quickly."
"What did he say to your officer?" Fred asked, unable to tear his gaze from Sky's body.
"The Jahul panicked as we apprehended your friend.  Some fool had given him the idea the telepath was a monster and thus he broke the Human's arm in his anxiety to get him sedated and under control."
Fred glanced back at Jer'ait, who was staring through the window at Sky.  "And?"
Jer'ait tore his electric gaze from the window and said, "Your friend calmed him.  Assured him he wasn't mad, that he understood, that he hadn't broken his arm on purpose, and that he didn't hold his job against him."  Jer'ait hesitated.  Almost reluctantly, he added, "Then he went on to say that his family missed him, and that he should take some time off to witness the birth of his latest child—that he couldn't allow the job to override his feelings for family."
Fred left the Sanctuary feeling sick.
"Well?" Verbhan demanded as soon as he returned to the Ooreiki's offices.  "What of the Minder?"
Fred gave his head a slight shake.  "Kragkhen's brainwashing him.  They've got him hooked up to so many machines he looks like a cyborg."
Anger flared across the Ooreiki's face in a rage.  "That Dhasha filth.  Him and his Huouyt should be executed."
Fred wholeheartedly agreed, but he was too shaken to say anything.
"I told Arlal.  He wants me to call up the troops and rescue him."
"No," Fred managed.  "Sky could have killed every one of the Peacemakers assigned to retrieve him.  Hell, he could have wiped out the entire Sanctuary.  But he didn't.  He doesn't want anyone to die."
"But he is more than willing to die himself," Verbhan growled.  His sudah were fluttering openly, now.  "This will not stand, Mullich.  As soon as I get Trade, I will make those incompetents at the Sanctuary feel my wrath."
Fred nodded.
"You are not convinced I'll win?" Verbhan demanded.  "I have the highest chance.  Rakken is not respected enough to make the Chair.  Kaj'nol would bankrupt himself before he could bribe enough Representatives to take the lead of Finance, and no one in his right mind will vote for the Dhasha."
Fred nodded.
Verbhan's pupils narrowed.  "Your friend will be avenged, Human.  Do not fear that."
"I don't," Fred said, his voice a whisper.  "If Sky dies, Congress will pay for it a trillion times over."
#
"I can't.  There's just too much of it."  Kim slumped into the chair, exhausted.  "How many days has it been?"
"Four," Syuri said, eying the empty landing pad outside the window.  "And we're lucky nobody's shown up by now.  How much have you done?  Perhaps it is enough."
"How much?" Kim laughed.  "Twelve square feet, give or take."
Both Syuri and Larry stared at her.  "Twelve...feet?" Syuri whispered.  He counted on his hands, frowning, then quickly turned to the console to convert it to Congressional Standard.  When he did, he let out a cry of dismay.  "You mean you've only converted one and a third square rods of ruvmestin?"
"Twelve square feet of dirt," Kim said.  "I've got to go through it particle by particle.  It would actually be faster to turn the whole planet to coal or something, that way I don't have to pick and choose."
"Forgotten said to be inconspicuous," Larry said.  "I don't think that qualifies."
"So what do you want me to do?" Kim demanded.  She threw her arm out, indicating the planet around her.  "This is ridiculous!  My head hurts like someone's drilling holes in it and I've done nothing but concentrate in my second consciousness for twenty years!"
Syuri snorted.  "That's quite an exaggeration.  Four days certainly isn't all that bad—"
"Time slows for them in their second consciousness," Larry said while frowning at Kim.  "Though I doubt it was twenty years, it was probably a lot longer than four days."
"It was," Kim muttered, "And right now I'm so sick of ruvmestin that if you showed me that ball of yours, Syuri, I'd puke on it."  She stood up and strode across the room.  She dipped her hands into the washbasin and splashed cool water over her face, a relief, since the ambient air temperature in the palace seemed to be at a constant ninety degrees.
"But you can't stop," Syuri cried.  "You've got two more planets to go after this one."
"Screw that."  Kim flopped back into the chair and closed her eyes.  "It's not happening."
Syuri tried to reply, but at that moment the backwash blast of a ship settling down outside on the landing pad drowned out his words.  All three of them jumped.  Syuri and Larry ran to the window.
"Who is it?" Kim asked, sitting up straight.
"Peacemakers," Larry said.  "And they don't look happy."
Syuri had turned a deep, splotchy green.  "They're wearing siege equipment.  We've got to get out of here."
Kim stood up, glancing at the door.
"No!" Syuri cried.  "They'll have already located us with thermal scans.  They'll expect us.  Our best bet is out the window."  He started crawling over the stone ledge and Larry violently tugged him back.
"Are you insane, centipede?" Larry demanded.  He pointed a clawed finger at the ground.  "That's an eight-story drop.  It would snap those little legs of yours like matchsticks."
"Do you have a better idea, lizard?!"
"Yeah," Larry said.  He hefted the Jahul under one arm.  As Syuri struggled, he motioned for Kim with his other hand.  Kim hesitated, eying the eight-story drop with her second consciousness.  Below, the alien hedges were a thick tangle the consistency of gigantic iron wool.  She could easily imagine breaking bones and cleaving flesh on the sharp edges.  "I don't know," she said.
Behind her, she heard running feet in the hallway.
"Now!" Larry cried, lunging for her.  Hauling the Jahul along with him, he grabbed Kim around the waist and, with a running start, launched them effortlessly out the window.
Kim had the brief sensation of flying before she began to scream.
The Takki landed perfectly on the landing pad beyond the hedges, with only a slight jounce to Kim's ribcage as a result.  The Peacekeeper ship towered over them, the eight-pointed star and its ring of circles large upon the side.
"Let go of me!" Syuri snapped, kicking away from the Takki.  "Kim, get to the ship!"
Kim turned back to look at the palace.  She drew her second consciousness inside and felt the warm bodies jolting and contorting as they ran back through the hall, back to the door to the palace.  She floated before them, examining the knit of their cloth as it stretched and strained over their alien bodies.
"Come on!" Syuri cried, grabbing her arm.  Panic had raised the pitch of his voice several degrees.
"Just a moment," Kim said.  She pushed in front of their pursuers, reaching the door to the pad first.  She drifted into the crack encircling the portal, feeling the heavy material stretch out around her as if she stood in the center of a deep crevasse.  She grasped the air of the space with her mind.  It was hotter, here, drifting in from outside.
Stone, Kim thought. 
She felt the rush of air all around her as the air in the doorjamb coalesced into a thin wedge of stone.  She backed away, examining her work.  The crack was plugged, with no leeway in any direction.  When the Peacemakers reached it and tried to yank it open, the door didn't budge.
"We don't have time," Syuri cried, dragging her with one limb and running with the other five.  He bodily shoved her up the steps to the Peacemaker ship.  Inside, Larry was confronting the pilot.  The tiny Ueshi looked stunned, staring up at Larry like some monster from the abyss.
"I'll take that, thank you," Syuri said, shoving the Ueshi out of the pilot's seat and sitting down.
His eyes on Syuri, the Ueshi started sidling toward the door.
"You just sit tight or I'll be glad to rip out your spleen, alien scum," Larry growled. 
"He doesn't have a spleen," Kim noted.
"Then I'll root around in there until I find something that looks like it," Larry replied, showing black teeth to the Peacemaker.  "Sit down, alien.  The centipede's already pissed me off once today."
The Ueshi didn't respond and Larry roared, grabbing him and throwing him to the floor.  Kim winced, watching the delicate muscles in his arms stretch and strain.
"He can't understand you, Larry," she said, prying Larry's clawed fingers from the grip he had on the Ueshi.
The petrified Ueshi used the brief freedom to scoot up against the wall, its big, blue-green eyes wide as they stared at the Takki, his thin, leathery crest trembling atop his head.  "They told us he was real."
"Shut up," Larry snapped.  "Syuri, what is taking you so damn long?"
"All Peacekeeper ships have a twelve-digit code that must be entered before the ship will respond to commands," Syuri growled.  "Now shut up and let me concentrate."
"Why don't you ask the pilot?"
In Congie, Syuri said, "The pilot is trained never to give away the number, even on pain of a horrible, tortuous death.  You can try it, but you'd just be wasting your time.  He'd keep his mouth shut even if I let you tie him down and start ripping into his—"
"Give him the code!" Larry roared into the Ueshi's face.
The little Ueshi pilot blurted out something in Congie that sounded like a code.
Syuri smiled at the Ueshi.  "Well dice me up and throw me in a Jreet hell.  I guess you can be useful, lizard."  He began entering the digits.
"This is a mistake," the Ueshi said.  "We were told he's really a Takki."
Larry frowned down at the Ueshi.  "Tell him to shut up, Kim."
"Larry says shut up."
"But if he's a Huouyt, it's all a misunderstanding.  Our sources told us none of you were Huouyt."
"He's a Takki, not a Huouyt."
The Ueshi blinked, glancing from Larry to Syuri and back.  "But—"
"But he's a freak.  Yes, we know.  Now shut up a moment.  All of you.  I've got to get us out of here without raising an alarm."
"What about the ruvmestin?" Kim asked.
"The Jreet take the ruvmestin," Syuri snapped, firing up the ship with expert motions.  "Our mutual friend told me nobody's supposed to die for his little escapade, and right now, that sounds like his best idea yet."  He activated the manual controls and tore the ship off the landing pad with enough violence to make the artificial gravity stutter.
Then they were spinning up and away from the planet, the grey-black surface dropping away underneath them, and both Kim and Larry's eyes went wide at the intense maneuvers that spun the world outside the window in incomprehensible turns.  They quickly sat down and grabbed onto something.
The Ueshi, however, was standing again, staring over Syuri's shoulder with wide blue-green eyes.  "You really are Syuri gea Gevaniil, aren't you?"  Without waiting for a reply, the Ueshi babbled, "You're a legend, sir."
"Why do you say that, kid?" Syuri asked nonchalantly, never looking up from the console in front of him as he carefully adjusted slides and levers.
"You fly like an Academy instructor," the Ueshi breathed.
Syuri snorted.  "How old are you, Ueshi?"
"Sixteen turns, sir."
"I will have you know that I've outflown every one of those bloated bipeds they've got working at the Space Academy.  I've stolen eight ships off the Academy's front lawn, one of them belonging to the Corps Director himself, so the last thing I'll have you do is insult me by comparing me to that self-righteous idiot.  You do it again and I'll dump out the airlock."
"Yes, sir."
Syuri grunted, but Kim could see that he was sitting up straighter in the chair, his internal chambers slightly more pressurized than normal as he hunched in the seat made for a much smaller creature.  "Okay, everyone hold on.  We've almost breached the outer defense ring, but they still might figure out what's going on.  If they do, we're in for one hell of a ride."
Suddenly, loud and clear over the intercom, came the words, "Yeejor Pride, you are cleared for departure to Grakkas.  Make sure the bastards fry."
Syuri blinked at the console.
"We were going to take you back to be tried," the Ueshi offered.
Syuri turned to frown at the Ueshi.  "This ship is bound for Grakkas?"
The Ueshi nodded.
"With full clearance and papers?"
Another nod.
"Jreet hells."
"Isn't Grakkas one of the places we have to go?" Kim asked.
Syuri didn't answer her.
"Syuri, I thought—"
"Yes!" Syuri snapped, "Grakkas was one of the Jreet-loving planets on the list.  But, seeing how you can't seem to get the job done, I see no need to go to Grakkas."
"We go to Grakkas."
Syuri glared at Larry and lifted his hands from the controls.  "Oh I see.  Then perhaps you would like to fly us there, Takki?  By all means, step right up."
"Yeejor Pride, you are clear.  Are you having problems with the prisoners?"
"Try dragging them outside the ship a few tics," another pilot added, to a roar of guffaws before he cut his link.
Larry's confidence wavered slightly as he looked at the controls.  "But Forgo—"
"Do me a favor, lizard, and don't mention that corpse-decay within the hearing of the Ueshi."
Larry's clawed fingers dug into the scales of his palms.  "He can't understand English."
"Maybe so," Syuri muttered.  "But I don't like to be surprised."
Inside Larry's mouth, Kim hovered between the crevices of his black teeth, watching them tighten together as the muscles in his jaw contracted.
Politely, Larry said, "Our friend told us to visit all three."
"And we've already failed on the first one.  Why waste our time on the others?"
"Because the ship is headed to Grakkas, Syuri," Kim said.  "How much more of a sign do you need?"
"Yeejor Pride, you are—"
"Yes I know," Syuri snapped.  "We're going, Jreet rot you.  Stupid bipeds."  He slammed his arm down, cutting off the channel, then engaged the engine.  The curtain of ships on the screen disappeared, as did Yeejor and its star.
"Won't they recognize your voice?" Kim asked, wide eyed.
"Who cares if they do?" Syuri gritted.  "The last place they'll look for us is on Grakkas."







CHAPTER 35: The Vote
The vote came on a day that Fred didn't feel like getting out of bed.  Only the Watcher's constant, incessant reminders that he was going to be late to the Regency gathering made Fred finally throw off the covers.
"The First Citizen is requesting your presence, Mullich," the Watcher insisted.
"Damn you and the First Citizen," Fred snapped.  He hadn't eaten in two days, and he hadn't taken a shower in twice that.  Ever since seeing Sky laid out on a table like a Frankenstein corpse, he hadn't felt right about anything.
And, despite his power as a Representative of Congress, there was not a damn thing Fred could do about it, short of starting a war.
We've lost, Fred thought as he got dressed.  He would have given anything to have been able to speak with Forgotten.  He needed advice.  Sky was detained, slated for death, and Sjilak had disappeared—presumably to escape the Peacemakers, but Fred wondered.  No one had said so much as a peep about the Trith since Peacemakers had invaded his room, and when he asked the Watcher about him, the Watcher replied that no Trith had ever visited Koliinaat.
"The vote is about to start," the Watcher said again.  "I will transport you as soon as you are ready."
Fred growled a curse and haphazardly threw his formal robes over his shoulders, cinching them tight with the tiny eight, multi-colored beads representing the first eight planets of Congress.
The Watcher did not give him time to straighten everything to a respectable semblance of order, but instead transported him immediately to his chair.
Fred frowned.  He was early.  The members of the Trade Council still hadn't arrived.
"Watcher, what the hell?"
The Watcher did not respond.
"This is bullshit," Fred muttered, sinking into his chair.  Since when did the Watcher harass Representatives into going to Regency meetings before they even started?
Two minutes later, the First Citizen appeared at his seat with a wave of murmurs.  Other members of the Trade Council appeared one after the other, and took their seats with casual movements belying the great importance of today's vote, almost appearing as if they didn't know or care of the itinerary for the day.  The strain of the upcoming vote was apparent on all of the candidates, however.  Rakken appeared physically ill, and it was some small comfort that the Jahul looked worse off than Fred, his skin gleaming with substances Fred did not want to think about.  Kragkhen paced before his seat, barking last-minute orders to his staff.  Kaj'nol was gripping the armrests of his chair a little too tightly, his electric eyes riveted to a point across the Regency from him.  Verbhan did not arrive until everyone had been waiting a good forty tics.
"He obviously doesn't want the chair," Kaj'nol said once it was obvious Verbhan was going to be late.  "We should continue without him."
"We wait," Kragkhen snapped.  "I will not have his lawyers claiming we stacked the vote in my favor."
"What favor?" Rakken snorted.
"Silence," Aliphei said.  "We wait."
As the minutes wore on, every Representative in the Regency was shifting uncomfortably or chatting with his assistants.  Fred, who had no assistants, was given ample time to watch the faces of every candidate before the Regency, finding their actions fascinating.  None of them was a clear winner—not one held the confidence that he would have expected of a candidate who knew he would be elected.  As of yet, only Verbhan had shown that self-assurance, and Verbhan was not even present.
"Why are you late?" the First Citizen demanded when Verbhan finally appeared.  "Does this vote mean so little to you that you insult us all by showing up late, Ooreiki?"
Verbhan's sudah were moving rapidly in his neck, a look of panic on his face.  "It was not my fault.  The Watcher—"
"The Watcher is a machine, you pompous fool.  It could not transport on orders it did not receive.  Is this how you intend to serve as Chair?  You shame your species with such childish excuses."
Verbhan stiffened angrily, but bowed his head in acquiescence.
"Candidates, activate your podiums," the First Citizen snapped.
Immediately, Kaj'nol, Verbhan, and Kragkhen appeared in a line of images in the center of the Regency.  Rakken was a few seconds later, having to rearrange his legs in order to reach it properly.
Fred considered turning on his podium, but knew he didn't stand a chance.  He leaned back to watch the fireworks.
Fred's podium activated for him.
"What is this?" Kaj'nol demanded, seeing Fred's image floating with the others in the center of the Regency.  "I thought the Tribunal concluded his candidacy was a trick."
"I am on the Tribunal," Daviin said, "And my nomination remains."
"Only to save your pride," Kaj'nol said.  "You must find it difficult to accept the fact that two Humans were manipulating your mind."
"My vote remains," Daviin repeated.  "If you don't like it, Huouyt, you can come to my chamber after you lose the vote."
"It's no secret Daviin's made a pet project out of the Human," Rakken said.  "Let it be, Huouyt.  Unless you believe he poses a threat."
Kaj'nol made a disgusted sound and waved a paddle-like tentacle in dismissal. 
"Very well," Aliphei said.  "Fellow Representatives, I am sure over the past weeks you have all come to a conclusion on which of these candidates would best represent the interests of trade and prosperity of our great union.  In case you haven't, each candidate will be given a two-tic timeframe in which to lay out the main points of his platform.  Rakken, you're first."
The Jahul made a speech about how he was the proper candidate to build more ships and strengthen trade routes.  Verbhan followed with a grand litany of what must be done to ensure continued prosperity under a new chairman.  Kaj'nol responded with an equally flamboyant speech describing the laws that must be made and the embargoes that must be lifted, all by his benevolent hand.  Kragkhen announced that the Trade Council would pass more legislation under a powerful Dhasha leader.  Throughout it all, Fred tried in vain to shut off his podium, but it stalwartly refused.
Then it was Fred's turn.
The entire Regency waited expectantly as he rose from his seat.
"I don't really want the Chair.  My podium just turned on for some reason and I can't turn it off again."  Fred batted at the side of his podium, trying once more to shut it off.
Stunned silence was followed by a roar of laughter.  Fred blinked, glancing at the amused faces around him.
Oh, what the hell, he thought, and cleared his throat.
"Actually, I'd very much like to have the Chair, if only to make the rest of Trade kiss the ass of a Class Zero civilization.  I think the first rule the next chairman should institute upon gaining the seat is a mandatory ass-kissing session, just to get it over with."
"He doesn't take it seriously," Kaj'nol snapped in the laughter that followed.  "Aliphei, move on to the vote."
"He still has a tic," Aliphei said.
"But—"
"You had your time, Huouyt!" Aliphei roared.  "Show the others the same respect, however much it pains you to do so.  Continue, Mullich."
"Like I said earlier," Fred said, holding Kaj'nol's furious gaze, "I believe wholeheartedly in Representative Kaj'nol's plan to separate the Huouyt from the rest of Congress.  I feel that would be the absolute best way to ensure our continued success—but as I cannot institute the embargoes without his cooperation, I'd settle to leave things the way they've been.  I know I could never fill Keerstan's shoes—I would merely be holding the spot until the Bajna take pity on us and decide we've suffered enough, then I'd give it right back to them."
Fred sat down feeling flushed with adrenaline.  His blood was humming in his ears, his hands cold and shaking.  If he'd been holding a glass of water, he would have slopped it all over himself, so he settled for gripping the arms of his chair as casually as he could.
"Representatives, you have heard the candidates," Aliphei said.  "Cast your votes."
"Now can I return to my bed?" Fred demanded of the Watcher.  "We both know I'm not going to win this."
The Watcher did not respond.
Sighing, Fred slumped into his chair and listened as the votes were announced.  His ears pricked up every time he heard his own name, but he realized after the fourth or fifth one that it was simply Orbihl fulfilling his end of the bargain and went back to ignoring the count.
Eventually, the Regency fell into utter silence.  Fred sat up, realizing they must have come to some sort of conclusion.
"You cannot be serious."  Kragkhen was staring at the First Citizen.
So Kragkhen's out, Fred thought, wishing with sudden vehemence he had paid attention to the vote.  That left Verbhan, Rakken, and Kaj'nol.
"It would appear," Verbhan bit out, "That I miscalculated."
Verbhan lost?  Fred stared at the Ooreiki, confused.  He was sure Verbhan would have made the seat.  That left Rakken and Kaj'nol.
Please don't let it be Kaj'nol, Fred thought.  Anyone but him.
"Well, I'll leave you fools to deal with this mess," Rakken said.  "I must go shower."  He disappeared.
Fred's heart fell.  They'd given it to the Huouyt.  What gods hated them, that they would take Trade from the Bajna and give to the Huouyt?
Aliphei's voice was dutifully monotonous.  "Council of Trade, fellow members of the Regency, embrace your new Trade chairman.  Chairman, stand to accept your new assignment."
Fred glanced at Kaj'nol, waiting for him to stand and approach his podium.  Instead, the Huouyt's huge electric eyes fixed on him and Kaj'nol's face twisted in disgust.  "I, too, find myself needing a bath."  At that, he disappeared.
Fred blinked, wondering if he'd made a mistake.  Rakken and Kaj'nol had both left, which meant they had not won the chair.  That left Verbhan and Kragkhen, but neither of them were making any attempt to approach their podiums.
Then, with a rush of disbelief, Fred thought, They picked me.
As soon as he had the thought, he knew it couldn't be true.  Sky hadn't been able to sway their thoughts because he was currently locked in a Peacemaker brainwashing device, so that couldn't be the reason.  Fred kept staring, unable to believe it.  He'd lost his cross.  He'd made a mockery of the chairmanship.  Surely they hadn't actually chosen him.
Yet, when he scanned the Regency with his gaze, he felt every eye upon him.  They were waiting for him, and still he had trouble accepting it.  Congress did not vote second-rate Representatives to the chair of a powerful council like Trade.  Especially not when his telepathic ace in the hole was not around to manipulate their thoughts.
"Apparently he was telling the truth when he said he doesn't want it," Kragkhen said.
Fred stood, his legs feeling numb beneath him.  He stood to face the assembly and bowed, feeling the force of all three thousand, two hundred and forty-four members watching him.
Feeling the crush of the attention around him, Fred felt, for the first time since coming to Koliinaat, himself doing his ancestors back on Earth proud. Lifting his chin, he said, "I accept."







CHAPTER 36: Embargoes
"So tell me again what you want us to do once we get to Grakkas?" Larry demanded, watching the gray-brown planet expand in the screen before them.
"Go to jail."
"Jail."  The Takki shifted uneasily, glancing at the Ueshi.  "Are you serious?"
"Do you see a better way to get Kim as much time down there as she needs?  The only habitable areas on Grakkas are military compounds.  And, unless you can find some way to disguise yourself, lizard, they'll never believe we belong there unless we are safely behind bars."
"But what if we can't get out?" Larry asked.
"Losing your nerve, my mighty Takki?" Syuri snorted.  "Remember, my friend.  This was your idea.  I was perfectly willing to fly to some Ueshi pleasure-planet and get wasted on karwiq bulbs and strippers."
Larry made a disgusted sound.  "Jahul strippers?  Is that really a thing?"
"So we're just going to turn ourselves in?" Kim interrupted, getting between her companions.  She frowned at the oncoming planet.  "Shouldn't we just try to hide on the surface somewhere?"
"Weren't you listening?  If you were lucky enough to land on the dark side of the planet, you'd still dehydrate into human jerky before the sun rose the next morning.  If you were unlucky and opened the door while the sun was out, you'd have nothing to worry about because you'd burn up instantly."
"We should've gotten rid of the Ueshi," Larry grumbled.  "He's going to foul things up."
"And ruin the poor child's career?  He'd never fly again if they found out he helped, and these guys usually don't live more than thirty-five tics. We're doing the merciful thing—we're gonna let him subdue us."
"Sub...due..." Larry said, staring at the translucent-skinned alien that weighed easily a tenth of his mass, "...us."
"Yes," Syuri said.  "This way, the kid looks like a hero and not an incompetent young idiot who willingly gave a criminal codes to his ship.  I've got to think about his future, lizard.  He only has ten, fifteen turns left, tops."
"What does the alien's future matter?" Larry demanded.  "We're talking about Earth's future here.  A planet over one lone alien.  I would've made the sacrifice and dumped him out the airlock."
"Yes, well, you never went through the Academy."  Syuri made a few more adjustments to the controls, then leaned back.  "It's done.  We're on final.  Zori, come here.  Take the captain's chair."
The little Ueshi hesitated, glancing at Syuri nervously.
"The rest of us will go lock ourselves in the prisoner cells," Syuri said.  "Do you remember the story?"
"You tried to board the ship and I subdued you."
"With a gun," Larry added.
The Ueshi looked up at the Takki, his glistening head-crest trembling.  "With...a gun."
"Excellent," Syuri said.  "And in return we don't do what?"
A thin, watery film shone over the Ueshi's skin and he hung his head.  "Tell them I gave you the codes."
"Come now," Syuri said, gripping the Ueshi by the shoulders and forcing him to look up at him.  "You're young.  You've got talent, or they wouldn't have sent you after the greatest pirate in history.  You're going to come out of this looking like a hero."
"But I'm not," the Ueshi said. 
Syuri patted the Ueshi's shoulder and grinned.  "Yes, but they won't know that."
"Why are you doing this?" the Ueshi whispered, looking utterly baffled.  "Why turn yourselves in?  You were free and clear."
"I guess you could say I'm tired of being on the run," Syuri said.
"But as soon as they have you on Grakkas, they'll—"
Syuri stopped him with a hand.  "Don't give the other children nightmares.  What will happen will happen.  Just sit down and take the helm and let me deal with the rest."
"Hell," Larry muttered.  "Listening to you two is like listening to frogs singing in Spanish.  What if they separate us?  I can't read or speak the language."
"You're a Takki.  I doubt they'll even lock you up.  Hell, they'll probably put you to work cleaning their boots."
Larry frowned.  "What?"
"Me, though, I'm in for one hell of a ride.  I've got a lot of explaining to do for the last Sacred Turn.  So just make sure you finish and finish fast, eh, Kim?  I don't know how much one-on-one time with Peacemakers this old pirate can take.  I'm growing old, you know."
Kim watched the Jahul's internal pressure climb and bit her lip.  "Syuri, I already told you I can't—"
"Once you finish up," Syuri said, "You get yourself out and find Larry.  I'm sure the lizard will be chewing off his claws by that point trying not to assault Congressional soldiers.  When the two of you have a way off the planet, come get me."  Syuri leaned back and closed his eyes.  "I leave it in your capable hands."
"Listen, you bitter centipede," Larry snarled.  "Turn us around so we can—"
"Welcome, Yeejor Pride.  Is your cargo intact?"
The Ueshi hesitated at the controls, glancing up at Syuri.
"Go ahead."
Zori leaned forward and hesitantly touched a symbol.  A small Ooreiki face appeared over the console and the Ueshi said, "Cargo intact, Commander Benlei."
"Scans are only registering four souls onboard."
"Yes, sir.  I, uh, subdued them when they tried to steal the ship.  With a gun."
"You're burning me.  You're alone in there with them?"
"Have been the last week," Zori said.
"You'd better not be ashing around, spacer."
"No sir.  They are one hundred percent contained."
"Very well.  Dock and bring them out.  We'll meet you in the terminal."  The Ooreiki head disappeared.
"They're going to storm the ship," Syuri said, sighing.  "Come, my friends, before we make a liar of poor Zori."  He led them deeper into the ship, into a stale, surgically clean area that Kim had not seen yet.  He led them all into a cell, then shouted, "Zori, if you would be so kind to lock us in!"
Almost instantly, the black walls dripped shut, leaving them alone in a black sphere.
Kim felt an ache of fear as the ship gave a sudden lurch. 
"We're docking," Syuri said.  "Prepare yourselves.  They'll come in fast.  Don't resist.  It will hurt."
On cue, the door dripped open and a dozen armed Ooreiki burst through, all shouting at once.  Syuri calmly stood up, raising his hands.  Six Ooreiki swarmed him, slamming him against the wall.  Kim heard his grunts of pain before the Ooreiki were on her, too.  In an instant, they had her on the floor and were wrenching her arms behind her, locking them at the elbows with some sort of seamless red handcuffs.  Kim let out a cry as she felt the muscles of her shoulders stretch to capacity and almost tear.
When they tore her off the ground, she realized that they hadn't even acknowledged Larry.  He stood watching them pass with hardened brow-ridges, glaring, but they never handcuffed him or even bothered pointing a weapon at him.
He's invisible, Kim thought, stunned.
Larry looked like he had had enough, like he was about to make them acknowledge him, but Kim caught his eyes and gave a quick shake of her head.  Larry glanced at the device binding her elbows and looked like he would ignore her, but then Syuri said loudly, "It's better to polish their boots than sit around twiddling your thumbs, waiting for Hagra to let you out."
"Shut up, smuggler."  An Ooreiki slammed a balled-up tentacle into Syuri's chest, almost rupturing one of the inner chambers.  Syuri bowed his head meekly and said nothing more.
Apparently, however, his warning was enough for Larry.  He stood back, waiting.
"Come, Takki," Kim heard one of them say as they led her out.  "We have uses for you in the kitchens."
"He doesn't speak Congie," Kim said.
The Ooreiki holding her punched her hard in the gut.  Kim doubled over, gasping, unable to fall due to the painful hold the Ooreiki had on her elbows.  Behind her, she felt Larry's anger, and willed him to hold his peace.
"Then what does he speak?" one of the Ooreiki demanded.
"Human English," Syuri said.  "It's one of the more obscure languages.  You might have to look it up."
"Bullshit," the Ooreiki said.  "He'll make do with hand signals.  You!"  He pointed a tentacle finger at Larry, who tensed.  "Get over here."  He began to walk away.  Larry cast Kim one last, apprehensive look, and followed him.
"Burning ashes," the Ooreiki standing beside Kim said.  He was holding a black box up to her face and Congie words were blinking in green across the top.  "Commander Benlei, I think we just found that escapee they put out the bulletin for."
"You're burning me," the palest Ooreiki said.  He grabbed the black box from his companion and stared at the blinking words.  "Ash.  Ash."  He thrust the box back at his companion and rammed his arm back into Syuri's chest, knocking the wind out of the Jahul in a wretched wheeze.  In the doorway behind him, Kim saw Zori flinch and glance at the floor.
"You been hiding her all this time, smuggler?!"
"I'm a..." Syuri gasped.  "...pirate..."
They hit him again.
"Do you have any idea the kind of bonus you just gave us, you filthy Takki?" another Peacemaker chortled.
"Probably less than you'd think," Syuri managed.  "Ultimately."
"Get the smuggler out of here.  And the Human, too.  Separate cells. Strip 'em down, make sure they're not bugged.  The Human gets night-and-day security.  I've heard it's one slippery janja slug.  As for Syuri—"  The Ooreiki hit him again, making Syuri moan.  "Our long-lost brother can go directly into interrogation."
"Yes sir."
"And Klevaal?"
"Yes sir?"
The Ooreiki's eyes held something that made Kim shudder as he stared at Syuri.  "Make sure you grab some nanos on the way."
#
"It wasn't an accident, was it Mullich?"
Verbhan sat across from Fred at the restaurant table, slitted brown eyes watching him with eyes that missed nothing.
"No," Fred admitted.
"You planned it from the beginning.  You and Daviin."
Fred shrugged.
Verbhan leaned back in his seat, still eying Fred.  "Before I met your friend, I would have assumed Daviin was the brains behind it.  But now I'm not so sure."
"Sky was a part of it," Fred agreed.
"And now that you have the chair, what will you do with it?"
"I'm not sure."  Forgotten hasn't told me.
And he wouldn't, without Sky to relay the messages...
"I see."  The Ooreiki ran a two-tonged fork through his meal before discarding the implement and staring once more at Fred.  "I'm impressed.  I have never seen anything so skillfully done."
"I won by a fraction of a percent."
"Four votes.  And yet I'm willing to bet you didn't bribe a single one of them, unlike Kaj'nol, who is even now emptying his bank accounts to pay his debts."
"I bought no one," Fred said.
"And, for the first time in the history of Congress, a candidate won a prime position by legitimate vote, without bribes and cajolery.  It boggles the mind, doesn't it?"
Fred smiled with the Ooreiki.  "Somewhat."
"So," Verbhan said, "Tell me what you plan now, lest you surprise me again."
"I don't know," Fred said.
Verbhan stood.  "I suggest you think on it, Mullich.  Session begins in three hours."  He extended his tentacled hand for Fred in a Human courtesy—the first Fred had witnessed in hundreds of years, especially from one of the Grand Six.  It made his jaw drop.  He had to remind himself to grasp the Ooreiki's hand before he insulted him.
"Congratulations, Mullich," Verbhan said.  "After today, even the likes of Kaj'nol will take you seriously."  At that, Verbhan shook Fred's hand and departed.
"Watcher," Fred said, "My room please."
Once he was alone, Fred breathed out a huge sigh through his teeth.  Today had been the most draining day of his life.  It seemed as if every Representative in Congress wanted to congratulate him personally—and ask a favor. 
"One of our planets struggles under needless embargoes..."
"Pirates have been slowing trade in the Old Territory..."
"Surely the ruvmestin limits are outdated, now we've found another source..."
Fred had smiled through it all, but now his brain felt like someone had worked it through a pasta mold.  He slumped down on his bed, deciding to try and catch a few hours of sleep before his first session as the Trade chairman.  As he hit the bed, he felt something crinkle underneath him that had not been there when he left his room earlier.
Frowning, Fred sat up and found the object.
It was a note, folded twice.
"Watcher, who has been in my room?" Fred demanded, immediately dropping the folded paper.  He could think of a dozen people who wanted to kill him, and another thousand ways to do so through a seemingly innocuous piece of paper.
"No one but you, Representative Mullich."
"Does the note contain any hazardous substances or explosives?"
"I would not have delivered it if it had, Representative Mullich."
"Who gave it to you?" Fred demanded.
"Sky," the Watcher said.  "Before he was captured."
Fred felt goosebumps tingle his arms.  Was this where the telepath forgave him for getting him killed?  Apologized for scaring him, told him not to worry that his death was coming?  Gingerly, Fred flipped the letter open and peered inside.
We continue with the plan.  Embargo steel on Kash'rat, cloth from Hev'asti, polymers from Juhr'in.  You will have more instructions once this is complete.
-Forgotten
Fred stared at the list in his hand and felt an involuntary wave of fear.  Kash'rat, Hev'asti, and Juhr'in were all Huouyt planets.  It would be seen as petty vengeance.  It would be a declaration of war.
Against a species of assassins.
Trembling, Fred took a deep breath.  At least if Forgotten was still sending letters, he wasn't too worried about Sky.
But then, perhaps Forgotten expected Sky to defend himself, to escape somehow.  If he had written the letter before Sky was captured, it might not reflect the fact that Sky now struggled against half a dozen mind-machines in the depths of the Sanctuary.
"Damn," Fred said, crumpling the note in a fist.  Then, panicking, he opened the letter once more and memorized the planets and goods.  Once he was sure he could remember them, he told the Watcher to destroy the letter and went to the Trade council room.
Verbhan and Rakken were already there.
"Greetings, my new chairman," Rakken laughed as Fred approached the dais.  "That was an interesting turnabout, I must admit.  Verbhan tells me you planned it from the beginning."
"Could I have won any other way?"  Fred moved to take the center chair, the one slightly elevated above the rest.
"We have an exciting night ahead of us, I'm afraid," Verbhan said.  "The Huouyt are causing trouble again."
"As usual," Genbiraa said, appearing at her seat and simply sitting down.  "What'd they do this time?"
"Nothing new," Rakken said.  "Artificially inflated their prices, stole a few of our ships.  Can't prove it, of course, but Zepwe's telling me the thieves flooded the market on Juhr'in with lifestones they couldn't have gotten any other way."
Fred felt his heart begin hammering in his chest at the mention of the Huouyt planet.  "And how would Keerstan have punished them for that?"
Verbhan chuckled.  "Getting a bit eager, are we?"
"I'm only keeping my end of the bargain," Fred said.  He grinned.  "It's what the voters want."
"You have to listen to their cases, first," Yobrial said, appearing at his seat.  He sat down abruptly, ignoring Fred.
Genbiraa was watching him, her head-crest fluttering in amusement.  "Ignore the Trosska.  We all know they're guilty.  Keerstan would slap them each with a fine and tell them to straighten themselves out before he started embargoing the lot of them."
"You all sound as if the Huouyt are a nuisance here," Fred said.
"They are.  They don't respect boundaries, and laugh at our fines."
"Then what if we just skipped the fines and went straight to embargoes?"







CHAPTER 37: Breaking Free
The Peacemakers bustled Kim off to a cell by herself and left her there in the dark, arms still bound behind her back.  When Kim called out for them to turn on a light, they ignored her.
So Kim opened herself fully to her second consciousness and used the glimmering, brilliantly lit planes of matter to guide her as she began to pace.
Getting out of the cell would not be a problem.  She could put a hole in the wall as easy as thinking about it.  The problem would be doing it and then getting herself, Larry, and Syuri to a ship before her captors realized just exactly what they were dealing with.
In fact, it would be even better if they didn't find out at all.
Kim finally sat down on the floor—there were no beds, no relief from the hard, bolted-down edges of the place—and went looking for Syuri.
As she floated from room to room in the black halls, briefly stopping to examine the hundreds of bodies along the way, she quickly realized that she wasn't going to find him.  She needed a better way.  She could sense thousands of the intricately balanced chemical systems that indicated a living body around her.
Frustrated, Kim pushed herself out of the building, until she was hovering in the dust-filled sky, feeling the extra motion of the superheated air around her.  The building was completely contained, a rigid structure of metal, stone, and soft, lightweight insulation.  It was part of a larger compound, most of which lay protected underground, none of which was exposed to the hot air.  Even the ships were encased in a weather-proof shield.  She could feel them beneath the bubbles like pupae inside their cocoons.
They're afraid of the sun here, she thought, intrigued.  Though she couldn't feel the heat herself, she saw what it had done.  A small, abandoned ship lay outside the compound, half-buried in a dune of dust and rock.  It was old, its metallic surfaces pocked and weather-beaten.  None of the air around her held the slightest trace of water—the sun had claimed it all. 
When Kim focused her attention behind her, she saw the star for what it really was, not a solid yellow ball at all, but a boiling inferno that made her tremble with the pleasure of looking at it.
She drew closer before she thought about it, until she had sunk herself into the spewing jets of matter and felt the unbelievable motion all around her.  Watching it, she felt almost as if she could not look away.
It's so beautiful, she thought, mesmerized by the way the fiery bubbles exploded and arced into the black emptiness of space above her, livening up the deserted wasteland beyond.  Looking up, it felt to Kim like she was watching a cross between an apocalyptic thunderstorm and once-a-millennium fireworks.  Beneath her, she felt buoyed on a violent, surging ocean of matter, the surface of which continuously rippled and then swallowed the ejecta it spewed forth only moments before.
I could watch this forever, Kim realized, mesmerized.
Then, blinking, Kim realized what she had done.
She panicked and was back in her body so suddenly that her muscles jolted.  She blinked and opened her eyes.
The darkness stunned her.  She actually had to remember to push her second consciousness forth, so she could see again.
I visited the sun, she thought, feeling a wave of awe.  She gingerly stretched her legs, peering down at the inner workings of her musculature, watching the slick, clumpy fluid rush through her veins.  I visited the sun and it didn't burn me.
Kim tucked her legs under her again, grinning like an idiot.  She pushed her consciousness once more through the walls of the compound and took another look around.  Below her, under the rough gravel, she could feel an underground maze spreading out beneath the planet's surface.  She felt Jahul bodies crawling under the earth beneath her like ants in their nest.  Ooreiki and Huouyt were with them, along with even more exotic creatures, all going about their daily chores with no idea that she hovered above, sifting through their bodies with her mind.
Then, remembering her journey to the sun, she imagined herself watching Syuri.  She pictured the unique pattern of delicate tubes she had felt within the Jahul's body, the pressurized chambers, the leathery green skin.
Syuri appeared before her within moments.  Immediately, she felt a stab of fear.  The muscles in his face were contracted in an agonized grimace, his skin awash in fluids.  Still, his internal chambers were stretched to capacity, as if he were holding his breath.
Release it, Kim thought, worry streaking through her core.  Why would he risk a rupture?
Syuri continued to hold back.
Kim backed away and saw two Ooreiki looming over the Jahul, holding him down as a Huouyt tore a small patch of webbing from between Syuri's fingers.
They're torturing him, she realized, growing cold with shock.  Syuri was refusing to give his captors the satisfaction of watching him discharge upon himself.
The Huouyt pulled the instrument back and dropped a piece of greenish flesh upon the table beside him.  Kim had to resist the urge to grasp the Huouyt's globular orange organs and reforge them into oblivion.  He began reaching toward the Jahul with the instrument again and she saw Syuri's mouth open in a whimper.
Fury almost made her kill the Huouyt.
Then, remembering Fire, Kim pulled away, feeling sick.
I have to stop them.
But she couldn't hurt them.  She would never again do that.
Syuri stiffened again as the Huouyt grew close.
Kim was so repulsed and upset she felt her second consciousness retreating to her body.  As she began to become aware of the darkened room around her, however, it made something click for her.  She pushed her consciousness back to Syuri's room.
They can't hurt him if they can't see.
She moved up, into the semi-spheres that protruded from the ceiling, roiling with their own inner motion.  Kim grasped the first one she saw and reduced it to a thin white ash.  Then, as the soldiers in the room glanced up, she destroyed the rest, one after the other, until she felt the soldiers start groping around in the dark.
Kim moved to the door, feeling the tiny substances inside moving and working like cells in a body.  She solidified it into solid black stone.
Let them try to figure that out, she thought, retreating.  A new sense of urgency powered her, now.  She had to complete her task and get the three of them out of there before the soldiers got over their confusion and took out their anger on Syuri.
Mapping out Syuri's location in her mind, she backed out of the room, drifting once more into the arid desert of the planet's surface. 
She had to find the mines.
Wondering just how far the structure beneath her went, she backed away, until she hovered somewhere near the edge of the lightest particles of the planet's atmosphere and the edges of space.
Though the surface of the planet was rarely marred by a dusty hut or a few blocky buildings, only ten feet below, civilization thrived.  She could feel countless living things moving and working in the cool darkness beneath the soil.  She could even feel water deep underground, lacing the planet like the interconnected branches of a thousand oak trees, pooling at the intersections, threading its way through the earth and at points traveling close enough for the aliens to have tapped for drinking water.
The aliens, though they had barely scratched the surface of the planet with their tunnels, had been hard at work.  She was not sure how many centuries it had taken them to bore the countless passageways, but as she sank herself into one of the deepest of them, she could feel the abandoned sterility of the long passage of time.
The tunnel was abandoned, sealed, and unlighted, but that did not stop Kim.  She floated down the path, unnerved by the alien feel to the stones and soil as she traveled deeper into the center of the planet.  As she had done with Syuri, she could speed herself along the winding, switchbacking shaft simply by envisioning herself further along in its progress toward the planet's core.
The shaft ended in a fallen clutter of stones, and she could feel the extra movement in the air around her that suggested the heat down here rivaled that of the surface.  Kim pushed through the stones, feeling a disturbance to the natural lay of the earth in front of her.
She came out at another tunnel.
She was floating through the rocks, intending to continue her descent into the bowels of the planet, when she found herself hovering outside an alien skull.  It was near the entrance, lodged in the rocks.  Kim moved closer, examining it.  The arrow-shaped surfaces were smooth like a human's, but they had a metallic, more permanent feel to them.  Even so, they were disintegrating.  Kim could feel tiny bits of the skull's substances floating in the air around her.
Whatever it was, it had been there a long time.
Kim pulled herself away and immediately realized the skull was not alone.  Now that she had a taste of its substances, she could feel more of them in the hall ahead, scattered like used watermelon rinds, hundreds of them.
Kim felt a pang of regret as she drifted over the abandoned miners.  They had died in clusters, their bones sprawled out like a puppeteer's discarded marionettes.  Over half of them were clumped near the entrance, obviously having been digging their way out when they ran out of air.  I could have helped them, she thought.
Then, for the first time, Kim could feel it.
All around her, infused in the walls, the air, the very soil itself...
Ruvmestin.
It laced the planet like water, but was a hundred times as plentiful, its veins reaching deep into the heart of the planet itself, telltale pyramids like a bad smell in her mind.  Kim focused on the ruvmestin, expanding, feeling all of it at once.  Every vein, every particle, all of it was there, touching her consciousness.  Kim could feel it all, down to the smallest pyramid-shaped particle.
I hope you bastards like mining coal.
#
Syuri felt the earth shudder and, in his pain-hazed awareness, thought that one of his captors had dragged a chair up in front of him to resume his torment in the dark.  But the sound continued, the rumbling getting louder, like it came from deep below.
"Is that an earthquake?!" one of the Ooreiki cried.
"This planet doesn't have earthquakes," the Eighth Hjai Huouyt snapped.
"There's some freaky shit going on here, Commander," one of the younger Peacemakers said.  "First the lights blow up, then the door freezes up, now earthquakes..."
"Maybe we're under attack," the other Ooreiki said.
"From who?  What dumbass is stupid enough to attack Grakkas?"
"I don't know.  Maybe we should go see."
"We'll go see as soon as they get this damn door open.  It's not responding to any of my commands."
"Think the pirate had anything to do with it?"
"The pirate's been in here with us the whole time, screaming like a Takki."
Slowly, Syuri put it all together.  The lights, the door...  Kim had done it to distract his tormentors.  But why would the earth be rumbling, unless she had found a way to...
Syuri chuckled.  "You bipeds are in a load of shit."
"What did you say?" One of the Ooreiki demanded, grabbing him.  Unlike their commander, they could see in the dark.
"You're lucky she only went for the lights.  If it were me, you'd all be peering at your internal organs from the inside out."
"What the hell is he talking about?"
The Ooreiki shook him.  "Explain yourself."
"Oh sweet Hagra's bulbous balls," Syuri said.  "She finally figured it out."
#
When Kim settled back into her body, alarms were going off in the halls beyond her as the earth shuddered and groaned.  It was an unplanned byproduct of changing the ruvmestin to coal—coal, which took up at least twice as much space as ruvmestin, made the earth move as it expanded.  Mistaking the rumbling as an attack, the aliens were charging down corridors, sealing off sections and boarding their ships.
The two guards stationed outside Kim's cell were gone.
Kim dissolved the red metal at her elbows and began to strip.
Once she had her white prisoner's jumpsuit laid out in front of her, she began to re-form it into a sheer black, two-piece pant and shirt set, drawing on the clothes of the soldiers around her as a model.  She added an eight-pointed silver star as she had seen on the Huouyt holding Syuri down, then randomly plucked the lettering off one of the uniforms to add to it.
Last, she scooped out handfuls of the floor and made herself heavy black boots, imitating the ones the aliens wore as best she could.  When she was satisfied, she pulled the heavy canvas material over her shoulders and buttoned the shirt.  She put on the pants and followed with the heavy boots.
Finished, Kim stood up and walked to the edges of her cell.  Holding up her hand to the slick, sticky black surface, she sank her consciousness into the tiny moving bodies of the wall and rearranged them, changing an entire swath into the calm fluidity of water.
Lukewarm liquid sloshed down onto her boots as the wall melted away, revealing a brilliant white corridor beyond.  Kim squinted at the sudden light.  She hesitated at the entrance, almost expecting someone to shout at her.  When no one did, she stepped into the hall.
Black corridors ran in both directions, leaving her with the impression she was in the depths of a maze.  Aliens in black were running in all directions, shouting to each other, many carrying weapons.
Gotta find Larry, she thought.  She focused on how the Takki had looked as she pulled his torn muscles and scales back together, after the Dhasha was finished with him.  His body composition was not unique, as there were many other Takki living in the compound around them, but the particular concentrations of the chemicals was, as was the particular pattern and size of his scales.  She backed away, opening her second consciousness to his particular combination.
She found him with a group of other Takki, laboring under a heavy load.
Kim broke into a run.  As soon as she hit a main corridor, she cut to the left, following the direction in which she could feel Larry.  Around her, soldiers passed in all directions.  Most were carrying guns, but they didn't even pause to give her a second glance.  Once they were out of sight, she turned to the wall she could feel Larry behind, raised her hand and began melting the stone in front of her into water, clearing a direct path to her Takki friend.
She found Larry carrying sacks from a storeroom into what she thought were the kitchens.  He, like the other Takki with him, labored under their burdens, each of which looked like it weighed several times as much as Kim.  Larry carried two, one over each shoulder, as did every other Takki. 
All around the Takki, soldiers were running by, shouting to each orders to each other, preparing for a siege.  The Takki continued to work, oblivious to the chaos surrounding them.
Larry still hadn't noticed her.  He had his eyes aimed at the floor.  Kim soon learned why.  As Larry shuffled along with the others, one of the Takki roamed up and down the lines with what looked like a metal crowbar.  One of the Takki ahead of Larry caught his attention and the one with the crowbar began beating the other with it, driving the metal claw into the skin and ripping off scales.
The Takki on the ground took the beating without even trying to defend himself, just lay and waited until his aggressor had finished.
Kim saw Larry drop his burden and start moving toward the Takki with the crowbar.
"You!" Kim shouted, making every Takki flinch.
Larry turned to frown at her.
"Where are your sacks?!" the Takki foreman demanded suddenly, slamming the crowbar into Larry's back.
Larry stiffened and turned on his assailant and Kim knew he was going to try and murder him.
"Larry, don't you dare!" she shouted at him in English.
Larry ignored her, striding toward the Takki who had hit him.
More Takki were watching them, now, and Kim inwardly began to panic.  How was she supposed to stop a full-blown fight between two creatures who could effortlessly rip her limb from limb?
"Larry, please..."
Larry hesitated, glancing back at her.  The Takki foreman hit him again, this time tearing loose a flap of flesh in his shoulder.  Larry roared and swiveled, bashing the foreman to the ground.  As the foreman stared up at Larry with a stunned expression, Larry twisted the crowbar from his hands and lifted it high, preparing to bash it into the other's skull.
Kim ran to her friend and touched his arm.  "Larry..."
Her friend quivered with anger as he stared down at the other Takki.  Kim thought he would kill him anyway, but he slowly lowered his arm.  "It's ones like him who gave the Takki a bad name."  He reached back and touched the wound in his shoulder.  "By the Light of Eleven-C, I want to kill him."
"Don't.  You'd never forgive yourself."
Larry glanced at her, then sighed.  "What of our centipede?"
"We'll get him next," Kim said.
"But what about our way home?  He said first to have a way off the planet."
"I'm not leaving him where he is," Kim said.  "Let's go."
Larry turned and gave the other Takki an elaborate bow.  "If you don't mind."  Then he turned and followed Kim.  Behind them, the other Takki immediately went back to work, the foreman picking up Larry's discarded sacks.
Kim focused in on the Jahul's specific compositions and led them down the halls at a run.  They were passing one of the few halls with windows when Larry stopped behind her.  He was frowning, staring out the window at a ship encased in its bubble.  He walked up to the open door and peeked inside.  On either side of the ship lay an abandoned stack of the same sacks he and the Takki had been carrying.
"I think I found our way off the planet," Larry said.
"How?" Kim asked.  "The ship?"
Larry nodded.  "Let's get Syuri."
They found Syuri's cell still sealed, muffled pounding the only signs of life on the other side.
Kim melted the door in front of her into the walls on either side.
The Huouyt who had maimed Syuri dropped his hand away from the empty space, blinking.
"Careful, my biped friend, they have guns," Syuri said from the darkened room beyond.
Kim stuck her head inside to peer into the bleakness.  The two Ooreiki stood by Syuri, pupils opened wide.  Kim, who had learned about guns from her history classes with the Makers Guild, found the weapons strapped to the Ooreiki's waists, plus one hidden under the Huouyt's uniform.  She rendered the weapons useless, forming the roiling ball of energy inside into a lump of lead.
Kim stepped inside the room, walking past the stunned Huouyt to touch her friend on the shoulder.  "Are you all right?"
Syuri beamed in the half-light.  "I am now, sweet child.  Did you...?"
Kim nodded.
"Excellent."  Syuri stood.  "Then let's get out of here."
Immediately, one of the Ooreiki slammed him back into his chair.  The other one drew his weapon.  "I don't know what the hell is going on, but you're not going anywhere, smuggler."
"I'm a pirate," Syuri muttered, even as the other Ooreiki said, "Is that the Human?" the other Ooreiki asked.  "Or a Huouyt?"
"It's the Human," the Huouyt snapped, pulling his own gun.  "Sit down, Human."
Kim ignored them both.  She glanced up at the Ooreiki holding Syuri in his seat.  "Get your hands off of him," she said.
The Ooreiki replied by grabbing her roughly and jerking her towards the second chair.
"Sit down," the Ooreiki repeated, shoving her roughly at the metal seat.  "Beside the Jahul."
Larry hit the Ooreiki like a charging kreenit, knocking him off his stubby feet, pinning him face-first into the floor.
The other Ooreiki sighted on Larry and squeezed the trigger several times.  Nothing happened.  As the Ooreiki was bringing the gun closer to examine it, the Ooreiki on the floor drew his weapon and began pulling the trigger.  It, too, was ineffectual.  Larry grabbed it and broke it in half with a growl.
"Hagra takes converts," Syuri said.  "Never too late to worship the God of Luck, my friends.  He accepts all races."  As the remaining Ooreiki was puzzling over the malfunction of his weapon—and the crazed Takki who had attacked his friend—he reached out and plucked a wand-shaped object from the Huouyt's belt.  He gave the bottom a slight twist and the tip began to glow an electric blue.  Even as the Huouyt's breja began to flow in a startled wave, Syuri casually tapped the Ooreiki closest to him and the alien let out a scream and collapsed into what appeared to be a puddle on the floor.  The Huouyt backed away from them, putting distance between the wand and himself.  Then he spun to run for the doorway.
"Lizard, get him!" Syuri cried.
With surprising grace, Larry lunged from the floor and tackled the Huouyt before he'd taken three steps.  In a moment, he had wrestled the Peacemaker to the floor.  The other Ooreiki that Larry had tackled, meanwhile, was starting to sit up with a groan, holding his head.
"Oh go back to sleep," Syuri said, tapping his skull with the crackling white wand.
That Ooreiki, too, screamed and collapsed in a pool of his own fibers and muscles.
"Did that kill him?" Kim whispered, staring at the puddled Ooreiki in horror.
"It only put him out for a bit," Syuri said.  "Lizard, how goes it with the Huouyt?"
"Just get over here and finish him off," Larry gritted.  "I get the feeling he's going to try something."
"Of course.  He's a Huouyt."  Syuri walked forward and, as the Huouyt suddenly changed color and flowed out from under the Takki in a moving wave of flesh, Syuri bent over and rammed the wand several inches into the Huouyt's body.  It immediately coalesced back into its natural form, twitching.
"Well," Syuri said, glancing at the table with three wrinkled green strips of flesh, "That wasn't as bad as I thought it would be."
"I'm sorry," Kim whispered, lifting his hand before her eyes.  "I'll fix it for you."
Syuri jerked his hand away.  "Are you insane, biped?  This will only add to the legend."  He grinned crookedly and wiggled his webless fingers.  "Proof I escaped Grakkas a second time.
"We haven't escaped yet."
"No, but we will."
"Why are you so certain?"
Syuri shrugged.  "I've always been an optimist."  He turned and pushed Kim and Larry out of the room in front of him.  "Now if you'll be so kind as to lock that again, we'll be on our way."
Kim formed another plug of stone to fill the door and then followed Larry back to the ship he had chosen.
Immediately, Syuri's face twisted disgustedly.  "You jest."
"We just got finished unloading half the cargo.  The other half goes to Pelipe.  I heard them say the name several times when we were unloading."
Syuri frowned at Larry.  "That ship is an abomination.  At least six hundred turns old.  We'd be lucky if it didn't fall apart on us as soon as we step aboard, much less get us all the way to another habitable planet."
"Is Pelipe the last planet?" Kim asked.
"It's a ruvmestin planet," Syuri agreed.  "But this is a piece of junk.  Not even worthwhile as a drone ship.  I'm not sure it's got the capability to support the three of us, not to mention the crew.  Come on, let's look somewhere else.  I want something with some spunk to it.  Not a piece of crap." 
"I'm taking this one," Larry said. 
Syuri crossed his arms, an annoying habit he had learned from Fire.  "Then I suppose you'll be piloting it, too?"
Larry ignored the Jahul.  He strode into the hangar and peered up the open gangplank.  "Hello?"
When no one answered, he led them inside.
"Hang me on a Jreet spear," Syuri whispered.
"What?"
Syuri pointed to the captain's chair.
There, like an admiral commanding his fleet, was Syuri's ball of ruvmestin.
"Well, Larry," Kim said, "Looks like you picked the right ship."







CHAPTER 38: Excess
"The entire shipment is for you, compliments of my friend Zepwe and the Trade Alliance," Rakken said, his voice echoing in the hollow confines of Fred's personal cargo bay. The Jahul Representative gestured to the stacks of crates in the cargo hull with a flair like a magician revealing a rabbit.
Fred stared at the hundreds of crates, not quite sure how to respond.  Finally, he said, "What am I supposed to do with millions of lifestones?"
"Billions," Rakken corrected, as if that made it better.  "There are more on the way."
"Dear Lord," Fred whispered.  "Why did Zepwe send so many?"
Rakken made an amused snort.  "You expect me to know that?  Aside from me, Zepwe is the most powerful Jahul in Congress—and some say the most eccentric, too.  If he wants to load you down with trillions of credits worth of goods, then if I were you, I'd let him."
"But this is ridiculous," Fred said, flustered.  "There's no way I can use them all.  Even if I used ten—a hundred!—a day for the rest of my life, I'd never use them all."
"Then give them away," Rakken said, making a disinterested gesture with one hand.  "Secure a few more votes.  Buy off Kaj'nol's enmity.  What should I care?  I'm simply the messenger."
"Is Zepwe trying to buy me?" Fred demanded.  "With supplies from my own planet?"
"Drugs, more like," Rakken said.  "Use them while you can—I wouldn't be surprised if Kaj'nol gets them outlawed here in the near future.  He does chair the Illicit Substances Board, and right now he'll do anything to see you and Earth hurting."
"So who needs lifestones?" Fred demanded.  "I certainly don't."
"Well, considering how they're so cheap, nobody.  If you ask me, this might actually be a way for Zepwe to artificially inflate the prices of his own stock, since he knows you won't try to sell them."
"You mean he's trying to reduce supply by pulling them off the market?"  Fred frowned.  "That seems flimsy."
"I don't know or care," Rakken said, sounding like he was beginning to get irritated.  "That was the message."
"I can't just leave them here," Fred said.  "They're using up all my allotted port space." 
"With more coming," Rakken reminded him.  The Jahul shook his head, eying him with something akin to respect.  "What did you do to earn the gods' favor, Mullich?  You've got one of the three most powerful chairs in the Regency, have gifts coming out your ears, and have a solid ally on the Tribunal.  I'd give anything to be in your position."
"That doesn't help the fact my port space is being taken up by lifestones I'll never use," Mullich growled.  "Tell Zepwe to stop sending them.  I don't want any more."
Rakken turned a darker shade of green, staring at Fred as if he had just announced he were about to shoot himself in the face.  "You don't snub a gift from the president of the Trade Alliance.  That's economic suicide."
"But this is ridiculous." 
"Maybe, but it's making you a very rich man."
"Between the Trade, Claims, and Species boards, I don't have enough time to eat, let alone sell my goods," Fred said.  "Tell me how to get rid of them."
"You could always give them to me," Rakken laughed, though there was a sudden alertness in his eyes that belied his mirth.
Fred considered, but even though he found the Jahul an interesting companion on the Trade Board, he didn't want Rakken to have any more power than he already did.  Same for Verbhan, Genbiraa, or any of the other Grand Six.
"I know," Rakken said, making a wistful sound.  "You'd be supporting the competition.  And I don't blame you.  I wouldn't do it, if it were me."  He ran a hand over his bald head, eying the crates.  "Well, you could always give it to the military.  Those miserable janja piles could use a morale boost any chance they get."
Fred grunted.  "Is that allowed?"
"There's no law against it, if that's what you're asking," Rakken replied.  "Nobody does it, though, because it's a waste of money.  You can't buy the Army.  They've got so many layers of red tape the troops never get to know who sent the gift in the first place."
"But the lifestones would go to the individual soldiers, not to the leadership?"  Fred had a soft spot for enlisted—his dad had served twenty years in the Army before retiring, in another lifetime.
Rakken frowned.  "Well, no.  To get them to the soldiers, you'd have to send them box-by-box to individual ships.  Then they might have a chance.  Otherwise, you'd get a few very rich bastards in headquarters sitting on a huge Jreet egg until retirement."
"Then I'll send out the boxes.  I'll use my couriers—I've got precious little other use for them."
Rakken sighed, staring at the stacks of boxes.  "Are you sure I can't have a few?"
"Tell me about the supply shortages," Fred said.
"How did I know our meeting was going to end on business?"  The Jahul's tone was bored, but his eyes were as sharp as a Huouyt's.  "What about the shortages?"
"Which species are involved?"
Rakken laughed.  "All of them.  Without Keerstan to keep our noses out of our own shit, everything's going to hell.  Trade has become one huge clusterfuck of a farce.  No offense."
"None taken," Fred said.  "I know I can't compare to a Bajna."
"They do this every twenty thousand turns or so," Rakken said.  "Put the rest of us in our place.  I give them about twenty turns before they decide we've taken enough punishment and take over for you.  Until then, I wouldn't worry about it.  There's nothing we can do."
"Actually, there might be," Fred said, thinking of Kim and the Makers.  "This Zepwe travels to Earth often?"
"It's become his new favorite resort.  Why?"
"Next time he's there, tell him to ask his suppliers on Earth if they can possibly fill some of the holes in other species' supply.  We've got a great abundance of minerals and resources on Earth right now, owed mainly to Congress's last visit.  Though there haven't been any official counts taken, best guess I've been given by Kerjia's staff is Humanity is at less than two hundred and fifty million."
"Sad how they killed off all your people."  Rakken gave him a look filled with genuine empathy.  "I voted against it, you know."
"I know," Fred said, remembering.  "You were one of the only ones."
"The whole thing seemed unnecessary," the Jahul lamented.  "I mean, you were new.  Humanity hadn't had time to learn the rules.  It was like cutting off an infant's hand for snatching a sweet."
"My thoughts exactly," Fred agreed.  "But it's been done.  Now perhaps Earth can make amends."
"For what?  Getting yourselves thrown back into primitivism?"  Rakken snorted.  "If I were you, I'd keep your resources.  You'll need them, when your population begins to expand once more."
"I feel responsible for taking Keerstan's spot," Fred said.  "I'd like to help."
"You're not responsible, Human.  I didn't see a Bajna on the ballot.  Any one of us would have wrecked the economy.  You're just doing a better job of it than the rest of us."
"Thanks," Fred muttered.
The Jahul slapped him on the back.  "If you are truly that concerned, I will tell Zepwe.  I'm not sure exactly how much good Earth can do, though, since we are talking about a universal economy.  They would have to strip your home planet down bare just to supply half of what the rest of the cultures are needing right now."
"Then do it," Fred said.  "I'd rather see Earth bare than another culture collapse."
Rakken peered at him, and the tiny orifices over his brow containing his emotion-sensing sivvet twitched.  "You're either a fool or a lot smarter than I take you for."
"I'm not that smart," Fred said honestly.
"Yet you sit in the Trade Chair," Rakken said, squinting at him.  "That's like a Huouyt in pattern saying he can't shapeshift."
"What can I say?" Fred said.  "I'm lucky."
That made Rakken's face clear.  The Jahul, he knew, believed in Lady Luck more than any other species, so much so that their supreme deity was Hagra, the trick-loving god of fortune. "Yes, I'll tell Zepwe.  I'm sure he'd love to start sending in ships to collect trade goods as soon as I give him the go-ahead."
"Then give it," Fred said.  "Humanity will do anything we can to ease the burdens of this catastrophe."
"We'll see," Rakken said, though it seemed to carry a newfound respect.  Shaking himself, he said, "You may eat your words soon enough Human."
#
Overseer Kerjia looked over the courier's delivery list with rigid features as his much smaller Ueshi Prime Commander waited, her translucent blue hands clasped behind her back.  "A gift?" Kerjia demanded finally, his wariness from decades of the backstabbing manipulations of Koliinaat still screaming it was some sort of trick.  "Where'd it come from?"
"They didn't include a benefactor name," his Prime told him as her blue head crest trembled in the cargo bay's fan, "but it came off a courier ship from Koliinaat, and rumor has it the Human Representative is responsible.  Gave away billions of them."
"Billions."  Kerjia scowled at the crate of lifestones.  He'd heard about them tangentially from some underlings who had taken a few days of leave at a refueling stop.  Amazing experience, they'd said, with no drawbacks.  They'd even bought some to send back to their kids.  "So it's not just us he sends these to?"
"Not from what the courier said, sir," his Prime replied.  "Every Congressional ship is getting a crate just like this." His Prime hesitated, knowing Kerjia's misfortune at the hands of Humans.  Cautiously, she added, "His hold is filled with crates he has yet to deliver, so I've got a feeling he's telling the truth on that."  There was a pent-up energy, an excitement, just under his Prime's usually-sober façade that made Kerjia realize that the gift meant more to the Ueshi than she wanted to let on.
Kerjia grunted and lowered the cargo manifest.  Had Representative Mullich not given the stones to the rest of the Corps, as well, he would have thought that the Human was gloating.  He and his crew had been away from any sort of civilization for two whole rotations, scouring the depths of space for a creature whose very existence was half-myth.  It was a boring, thankless job, and every one of them wanted it to be over.
Unfortunately, they had another two turns to look forward to.
"So how do they work?" Kerjia asked, lifting a crate's lid to get a better look at the multicolored gemstones. 
His Prime Commander's sudah gave a quick flutter.  "They give the user new and interesting emotional experiences, sir."
She's tried them, Kerjia thought, surprised.  He dropped the lid.  "They're drugs."
"Not in the common sense," his Prime said quickly.  "It's some new technology.  No one can figure it out."
"Are they legal?"
"Absolutely, sir."
Kerjia peered at his Prime Commander, trying to decide whether or not the Ueshi was lying to him.  Her kind were notorious for their use of illicit substances.  Without the Ueshi, much of the Jahul would be out of business.  After two rotations of monotony drifting in the Void, Kerjia would not put it past his Prime to lie to him.
"Do they affect performance?"
"No sir," she said immediately.  "The effects are instantaneous, and end at a predictable time."
"How many did Mullich send us?"
"Eighty-one thousand, sir."
"Ten per soldier of the regiment."
"Yes."
Why are Humans so obsessed with tens?  Kerjia snorted. 
His Prime must have noticed his amusement.  "Why do the fools always do things in sets of five?  Nine is such a more logical number."
"They count their fingers," Kerjia said.  "That's what the research says, anyway." 
"Small minds."
"Indeed," Kerjia muttered, ruminating as he scowled down at the box.  He knew how much his spacers would love the gift—and how much they'd hate him if word got out he hadn't accepted it.  "Very well," he finally conceded.  "Most of them are doing these things in their spare time anyway.  A few extra stones won't hurt them.  We'll pass them out next time we make port."
"Sir," the Ueshi said, quickly touching his arm with her sticky blue fingers.  "The troops need this, sir.  We won't make another port call for four rotations.  Morale is nonexistent.  This is like a blessing from the Lover."
The unfortunate thing was that the Ueshi was right.  If Kerjia didn't do something, they'd probably start killing themselves.  He had planned on tournaments to get their spirits up, but a few drugs could be just what they needed.
"Fine.  Pass them amongst the crew, but I want you to make it clear to them they only use them on their off days.  And no one uses more than one a day.  I want them to last.  Understand?"
"Yes sir."  The Ueshi was beaming, her liquid blue eyes bright.  "You will not regret this, sir."
#
"There is nothing wrong with lifestones.  You can't outlaw them.  They have no side effects."
Kaj'nol snorted and opened his arms to include all of Congress.  "No side effects?  We have the heat signatures of Forgotten's latest ship weaving through a Space Force armada on the edge of the Old Territory not two days ago.  The entire fleet was stoned, Mullich.  On drugs that you gave them."
Fred blinked.  Could it be true?
"Your stones reduce work ethic, create false feelings of happiness and security, and create emotional dependence."
"Now wait a tic," Rakken snapped.  "You have no proof of that, Huouyt."
"Oh shut up, Rakken.  We all know how you are benefiting from this.  You and Genbiraa follow the Human like Takki now he's got you on a leash."  He peered at Verbhan.  "I'm not sure how you're benefiting, Ooreiki, but it's obvious he's bought you, as well."
"No one's bought me, Huouyt," Verbhan said calmly.
"Mullich controls Trade with your votes!" Kaj'nol gritted.  "You've put embargoes on my planets, stifled our trade, suffocated our economies—"
"All of which you've requested by your species' repeated defiance of our laws," Genbiraa noted.
Kaj'nol straightened at his podium.  Addressing the Regency at large, he said, "The fact remains.  Yesterday, the Substances Council received alarming information regarding the dangers of lifestones.  After a careful investigation, for the safety of Congressional citizens, we—"
"Did you publish this investigation?" Rakken demanded.
"It's confidential," Kaj'nol snapped.
"Meaning never had one," Rakken snapped. 
"I believe Congressional citizens have a right to know what 'dangers' you've discovered in your 'careful investigations,' to make sure it's an actual concern and not a petty vendetta against the Human Representative," Genbiraa agreed, her bejeweled head crest trembling with rage.  She, like Rakken, had a vested interest in making sure her species continued to have access to lifestones for their famed pleasure planets.
"We of the Illicit Substances Council have made our ruling," Kaj'nol said.  "Lifestones are now banned.  A full report has been submitted to every Representative present."
"The Trade Alliance has a lot of money invested in this," Rakken growled.  "Do you intend to reimburse us?"
"If it were me, I wouldn't give you sniveling cowards a single credit," Kaj'nol said, "But my constituents overrode me.  Congress will pay the current fair market price to anyone who comes forward with unused lifestones."
"And how, Huouyt, will they determine whether or not they have been used?" Genbiraa asked.  "They have the exact same properties before use as they do afterwards.  Will your Substance officers be allowed to enjoy the benefits banned to the rest of us?"  Indeed, the lifestones from Earth had not held the same inner glow as the ones Sky had made or carried, so there was no way to ensure they had been used—except by using them.
Kaj'nol visibly prickled, his cilia flowing in an angry wave.  "We will trust the morality of the citizenship."
"Which means the Huouyt will be going around, collecting all the used lifestones they can find," Rakken scoffed.  "No, I don't think so, Kaj'nol.  Until you give us undeniable proof that they cause harm, I will not inform the Trade Alliance of your latest stupidity."
Kaj'nol's breja were flowing in ripples of pale cilia as he stared down the other members of the Grand Six.  "Then I will have my officers inform the Trade Alliance.  If I must, I will rip it apart and jail every Jahul in Congress."
"And what then, Kaj'nol?" Verbhan demanded.  "You will eat soil and drink air?  If the Trade Alliance crumbles, so will Congress."
"That's blasphemy, Ooreiki."
"It's truth, Huouyt."
Kaj'nol made an appealing glance to the First Citizen, who said nothing.  His expression grew bitter.  "Lifestones have been banned."  At that, he sat down, glaring at Fred.







CHAPTER 39: A Geuji's Goodbye
Pelipe was a cold, barren planet beneath a distant blue sun.  Kim shuddered as she drifted over the snow-swept passes, feeling the ruvmestin beneath her in branching layers.
"Well?" Syuri demanded, breaking her concentration.
"Shhh," Larry growled.  "Makers need silence to work, amphibian."
Kim breathed out, steadying herself against the Takki.  Beneath her, the white snow dunes drifted in a blue sheen from the light of the moon.  She'd already forced herself not to gape at the fascinating shapes of the endless mounds of snowflakes.  The snow was sixty feet deep in places, with a sheet of ice several miles thick under that.
The aliens had tunneled down through the glaciers, into the warmer areas beneath.  Kim could feel them down there, their complex body structures moving against the relative simplicity of the rock and earth around them.
Kim focused on the ruvmestin and felt time go still.  She closed her eyes and willed it to change, this time to lead.  Coal, Syuri had informed her, was too obviously out of place, as Grakkas had nothing living on it to produce the carbon, nor had it ever.
She felt the planet shift to her will like clay in a sculptor's hand.  Kim let out a pent up breath and opened her eyes.
"It's done?" Syuri asked, incredulous.
"Done," Kim whispered.  "I think I need a nap."
Last time, after the adrenaline had faded and they were safely en route from Grakkas, her exhaustion had hit her so completely she had passed out in the helm, mid-sentence.
"I'll carry you to the back, if you want," Larry said, looking concerned.
"That's all right," Kim said.   "I can get there."  With Larry's help, she pushed herself to her feet and started stumbling to the back of the ship, to the single bedroom they all shared.
Syuri was staring at the planet looming on the main screen like a tiny speck.  "You mean we don't have to physically land on the planet?  Jreet gods, child, we aren't even halfway there yet."
"Turn us around," Kim said.  "Take us somewhere else."
"Hagra's holy testicles," Syuri breathed.  "Where do you want to go?"
"I don't care," Kim said, managing an exhausted grin.  "I can find Yeejor anywhere now.  It is the only place in the universe with ruvmestin in it."
"The only one we know of," Syuri said.  "But Congress hasn't explored the entire universe yet.  Ninety hells, we don't even know where it ends."
"I'm sure she'll figure it out," Larry said.  He gave Kim a gentle shove.  "Go to sleep.  Syuri and I will rest on the grain sacks until you feel better."
"Thanks," Kim managed.  She went inside and locked the door.  As soon as she was alone, she let out a huge breath and let her shoulders slump.  She hadn't wanted the others to see how exhausted she really was.  First Grakkas and now Pelipe.  She felt like her brain had been steamrolled.
"Hello Kim."
Kim screamed and stumbled back against the door.
Blue Rose sat in a corner of the room, black diadem standing out against her brown skin, her black and yellow robes arranged around her in a pool of embroidered flowers, the citrine against her brow glinting in the low light.  She was watching Kim with analyzing brown eyes.
"How in the Hell did you get in here?!" Kim cried, her fear rapidly shifting to anger.
With too much refinement, the telepath said, "Blue is a Minder.  If she didn't want you to know she was here, you wouldn't know."
Kim's mouth fell open.  "Forgotten."  He was pulling the same trick he'd pulled with Sky, using the Minder as a puppet.
"I've come to make you a deal, Kim," Forgotten said through Blue Rose's elderly body.
Outside, Larry called, "Kim?  You all right?  Why'd you yell?"
Kim felt her fingernails dig into her palms.  At the door, Larry was now pounding on it, demanding entrance.  Raising her voice, she said, "I'm okay, Larry.  I just thought I saw a rat."  She scowled at the telepath.  "A big, ugly rat."
"Do they have rats in space?" the Takki insisted.  "Maybe it's poisonous!  You should open the door so I can—"
"I'm fine!" Kim interrupted.  "Now leave me the hell alone!"
The Takki, unused to Kim swearing, quickly backed away from the door.
"What do you want, Forgotten?" Kim demanded.
"Your cooperation," Forgotten said simply.
"I'm doing everything you told me to," Kim bit out.
"True, but you severed one of my points of reference when you dissolved the transmitter," the Geuji replied.
Kim narrowed her eyes.  "Looks like you found us easily enough."
"Finding you was never the issue," Forgotten replied, with maddening calm.  "Monitoring your progress was.  And you made that rather difficult."
"I took out the ruvmestin on Grakkas and Pelipe," Kim said.  "As soon as I take a nap, I'll do it for Yeejor, too.  That work for a progress report?"
"You're angry with me."  He almost sounded tortured.  Almost.  But how tortured could he be, really, when his pastime was to pull the strings of people's lives like a puppeteer dancing a universe full of marionettes?
"Really?  Why shouldn't I be?"
"You chose to kill Fire, not me.  I may have set up the situation, but you made the choice."
Kim felt like she'd been stabbed.  She opened her mouth to retort, but all that came out was air.  The guilt that she'd been fighting down for the last few weeks burst from the place she'd kept it contained and she felt a sudden burst of tears threatening.  Her gaze finally fell to the floor in defeat, unable to look at him.  "I know."
"You once offered to help me free my people, Kim," Forgotten said softly.  "Are you still willing to do so?"
Kim shuddered.  She felt so miserable, so guilty, so dirty inside.  She knew Forgotten was taking advantage of it, using her conscience to force her to uphold her offer, but she didn't care.  She would do anything to erase that one, horrible sin.
"Yes," she whispered.
Forgotten stepped closer, Blue's face pained.  "Do you want to know the real reason why I wanted you to copy Fire?"
"Not really."
"I wanted to know if it was possible." 
"Good for you."
"I wanted you to make me a body."
Kim jerked her head up.  "A body?"
"I have not yet decided upon the shape, but a living, breathing, physical presence capable of its own locomotion."
"Why?" Kim asked.  "I thought you were happy as a fungus."
"I am, but I won't be much longer."
"What does that mean?"
"Help me free my people and you'll see."
Kim hesitated.  "How?" 
"Don't worry about it now, Kim.  I'm not sure I'll live long enough to need one."
Coming from Forgotten, that statement scared her.  "You're in trouble?"
"Rri'jan.  The assassin.  He's been following me.  He's not being distracted by my drones.  I think something Syuri told him at their last meeting gave him an advantage.  I fear this might be the time he fulfils his promise."
Kim shuddered.  She knew what promise Forgotten was talking about.  "Can I help?"
"Yes," Forgotten said.  "That is why I am here."
Kim steeled herself.  She had promised herself she would never kill again, but she would make an exception for Rri'jan.  She glanced at her hand, bending the steel fingers slowly.  "You want me to kill him?"
"No."  Forgotten was looking down at her hand, the Minder's brown eyes full of compassion.
Kim hid her maimed hand from his sight.  "I'll kill him.  He deserves it."
"He does deserve it," Forgotten said.  "But I don't want you to kill him, because that would break my deal with Sky."
"What, then?"
"I want you to promise me something."
"You brought Blue all the way here just to get me to promise something?" Kim demanded, incredulous.
"I want you to promise that, whatever happens these next few days, you will not kill the assassin."
"Why should I swear that?"
"Please swear it to me."
Forgotten's face was so sincere, so open, that Kim found herself saying, "I swear."
"Thank you." 
Kim got the imminent feeling that the conversation was at an end.  Desperately, she reached out and grabbed Blue's embroidered black sleeve.  "What's wrong?"
Forgotten glanced away, but before he did, she saw something in his eyes that she had never seen before.
Forgotten was frightened.
Kim's heart skipped a beat.  "Oh my god.  He found you, didn't he?"
Slowly, Forgotten nodded.
"Where is he?"
"On my ship."
#
"I know you have a thousand countermeasures installed to kill yourself quickly, should your ship get breached and its system hijacked."
"Of course," the Geuji said through the overhead speaker system.  All around Rri'jan, the mold's carcass glistened and trembled in the dim light.
"Instead of using one, I offer an alternative," Rri'jan said, squatting beside the slime mold's helpless body.
"I doubt I'll accept, but I'm listening."
Rri'jan chuckled as he lowered his hand to hover over the Geuji's glistening black flesh and it flinched helplessly, unable to move away.  "My alternative is this:  Give me the death I deserve, and I swear to you on the honor of the Ze'laa that I will spare your friends."  Rri'jan languidly extended a poisoned finger, allowing it to hover only millimeters above the Geuji's quivering body.  "What do you say, Betrayer?"
The Geuji replied in Morinthian Huouyt, "I assume you mean the death you think I deserve, not the death I think you deserve."
Rri'jan's finger twitched and he almost killed the Geuji, despite himself.  "Obviously."
"On your honor as a Va'gan," Forgotten countered.  "We already know your family name is worthless now."
Again, Rri'jan almost killed him.  "On my honor as a Va'gan.  Entertain me with your death—right the wrong you did to me—and I will spare your friends."
"I agree to your terms, Huouyt."
Rri'jan felt a rush of pleasure, despite his training.  Finally.  The Geuji's death would be as satisfying as he had spent these last seven hundred turns imagining.  "Very well.  My first question is why you betrayed me."
"I did not betray you, Huouyt."
"You made me a laughingstock," Rri'jan snapped.  "You got me banned from the Tribunal."
"You knew the dangers when you hired me."
"You also told me there was a billion-to-one chance of failure."
"And the one thing I couldn't control went wrong.  They penetrated the deep den, Rri'jan.  They had Mekkval at their mercy.  I could not control that Rat's team did not kill him.  Your quarrel is with the Welu Jreet who had him in his coils and then let him go, not me."
"You picked the ground leader that led them down there," Rri'jan countered. "She ordered the Jreet to stand down.  You reviewed her file.  You spoke with her."
"I made a mistake."
Rri'jan laughed.  "Don't lie.  You don't make mistakes.  You planned it.  You wanted the Huouyt to be banned from the Tribunal."
"Why would I want that, Rri'jan?" Forgotten asked.  "You promised me a planet."
Rri'jan felt his pupils narrowing.  "Why would you want that, Betrayer?  I do not pretend to understand how your mind works.  Perhaps you should spare us both the trouble and tell me." 
"I made a mistake, Rri'jan."
"I know you did."  Gently, Rri'jan traced the non-poisoned tip of his finger across the Geuji's body.  He felt the Betrayer shudder.  "Don't worry.  I will take my time in killing you."
"Somehow, that does not assuage my fears."
"You failed.  Instead of killing Mekkval and assuring me the Tribunal seat, you got me banned.  Removed as a Representative.  Humiliated."
"Actually, it was your refusal to take responsibility when your brother brought you before the Tribunal that led to the investigation that led to your banishment.  If you had admitted your involvement at the beginning as I advised, you simply would have been put on probation."
Rri'jan almost forgot himself and killed the Geuji there, but then realized that the Betrayer was probably trying to get him to do just that.  No, the longer he drew this out, the better justice would be served.
"I'm surprised you're not being more obsequious, Betrayer.  Surely you know my plans do not include allowing you to live, regardless of whatever arguments you present."
"That is exactly why I do not try, Rri'jan.  Sooner or later, you will give me a poison that takes its victim through a slow, agonizing death.  You want something from me, though, otherwise you would have already fed me the substance and stood back to enjoy watching me die."
"I do want something," Rri'jan said.  "I want you to tell me if those Humans can succeed without you."
"No.  They cannot."
"Ah.  Good."  Rri'jan traced the poisonous finger across the Geuji's body, sinking the chemical into his flesh.  All around him, the ship shuddered.  "Now remember your bargain, Geuji.  No cocooning yourself in some mental hole.  I want to hear you scream."
#
Forgotten screamed.  Kim held him, biting her lip, tears in her eyes.  Blue Rose's elderly body was shaking all over, cold with sweat.  The Geuji was whimpering.
"It's okay," she whispered.  "You'll be okay."
Forgotten said nothing, merely shook his head.  He closed his eyes, shuddering.  The agony was clear in his face.
"Forgotten!  I'll help you.  I'll find you.  Remove the poison."
He shook his head again, quivering like a terrified calf in her arms.
Kim bit her lip.  "It hurts."
He nodded once.
"Blue Rose or Sky will help you."
"I'll kill them by accident," Forgotten whispered.  He opened Blue's brown eyes and looked up at her.  "They're too strong."
Suddenly, Kim understood.  "You're in Blue's body so she doesn't feel you die."
"Yes."  The words was barely a wisp of air from his lungs.
"Forgotten..."
"Sky will be all right.  He's isolated from—"  Forgotten groaned and his eyes closed again.
"Forgotten!"  She shook him, forcing him to open his eyes.  "Can I make you the body now?  Right here, on this ship?"
Forgotten's fingers tightened in her shirt and shook his head.  "Too strong," he managed.  "They couldn't...transfer.  Pain would kill...them."
"I'm not going to let you die!"
Forgotten opened the Minder's soft brown eyes and gave her a sad smile.  "You're going to have to."
Kim shoved her second consciousness out, seeking the infinitely branching structures she had seen inside the Geuji.
"No!"  Forgotten gripped her wrist until the pain brought her back.  "You promised."
"I'm not letting you—"
"It's too late, Kim."  He drew a ragged, agonized breath, and forced a smile.  "Trust me."
Tears blurred her vision.  "What can I do?"
"Talk to me."
Kim tightened her arms around the Geuji, stifling a sob.  "I'm sorry."
He shuddered again.  "I knew...the risks."  Then his shuddering increased, until his lungs were emptying in a low, agonized whimper.  His knuckles were white where they gripped her clothes.
"Please let me help," Kim whispered.
"Talk to me," he said again.  "Anything."
Kim bit her lip, tears running down her cheeks.  "I don't know what to say."
"Tell me what you think."
"About what?"
He laughed and cried at the same time, wrenching her heart.  "Very well.  What do you think about me?"
Kim opened her mouth to say something nice, something to make him feel better.  But what came out of her mouth was, "You're lonely, because everyone is a puppet to you, and you can't change that.  You're too smart.  You'd have to make yourself stupid to really have a true friendship with someone like me."
He opened his eyes and stared at her for a long time while his body shook.  "I think you're right," he whispered. 
A sob broke from her chest, strangling in her throat.
"Talk to me," Forgotten said quietly.  "So I'm not lonely anymore."
Kim did as he asked.  As Forgotten's agony grew, she spoke of happy things, told him jokes until he was in too much pain to laugh.  She tried to keep him focused when all he could do was think of the pain.  Then, in his final moments, she simply held him.
When Blue Rose returned to her body and gave Kim a dazed look through brown eyes that no longer carried the sharpness of the Geuji's intellect, Kim released her and stood.  Quietly, she went to the door and opened it.  Syuri and Larry looked up as she approached, their faces heated from another argument.
"Couldn't sleep?" Syuri asked.
Kim brushed past the Jahul, unable to stand being in the same room where the Geuji had died.  "Forgotten's dead."







CHAPTER 40: A Promise Kept
#
They hung in space under a shroud of silence as Kim removed the last of the ruvmestin from Yeejor.  Then, unspeaking, Syuri took them to a Jahul planet to resupply.  As soon as they docked, Syuri left the ship and took a shuttle planetside, saying nothing about his intended destination or how long he planned to be gone, or if he would even be back.  Kim suspected it was the latter, but she and Larry were too dispirited to follow him.  They simply waited, not knowing if he would return, not knowing if it mattered.
#
"Syuri gea Gevaniil, you are under arrest."
Syuri dismissively waved a hand at the Peacemakers and took another drink.  He couldn't remember getting this drunk in all his life.  It was a good drunk, a drunk that left him feeling numb without the added vomiting.
"One of you get his hands."
"He's disgusting.  You do it."
Syuri closed his eyes.  He'd hacked the military channels as soon as he'd found a café that would allow it.  They had shown the ship Syuri had sold him, stripped and quarantined like a biohazard site.  Pictures of a special team dragging out the remnants of a Geuji had blazed across every military channel that was open, along with congratulations and cheers.  They had incinerated the carcass and blown up the ship, just in case Forgotten had felt like continuing his line before he died.
Syuri was to blame.  He provoked the assassin.  Forced his hand.  Told him Forgotten's weakness.
"I'm not touching him.  He stinks like shit.  Look at him.  He's covered in it.  That stuff takes forever to wash out."
"The idiot's too drunk to resist, anyway.  Let's just walk him back."
Syuri felt something tap his shoulder.  "You.  Jahul.  Get up.  You've had enough."
"Just go away."  Syuri closed his eyes.
The blow hit him behind the head, knocking him from the chair.
"Get up, Jahul, or you'll get worse."
Syuri curled into a ball and lay there, staring at the glossy black floor.
Somewhere within the blows that followed, Syuri lost consciousness.
#
Kim and Larry looked up as the door opened.
"Well?" Larry asked.  "Now what do we do?"
"We're leaving."  Syuri moved to the controls and entered a few digits.  Then they felt a jerk as they disembarked and were moving.
Syuri looked...cleaner...than when he had left.  Had he just gone for a bath?  Kim sank her consciousness into him, wondering if he had once again tried to sell his ball of ruvmestin.
When she saw the wriggling red worms in Syuri's stomach, she gasped.
Syuri turned to her, a smile playing across his lips.  "Ah.  So she remembers me."
Larry frowned.  "What the hell is wrong with you?"
"It's Rri'jan," Kim whispered.
"Who's Rri—"
Kim caught Larry's arm and pulled him away, toward the back of the ship.  Rri'jan watched her calmly, his black Jahul eyes betraying nothing.
"Where is Syuri?" Kim demanded.
"I was about to kill him, but Peacemakers got him first.  The Jahul has the luck of a Jreet."
"But you're wearing his form."
Rri'jan smiled.  "Blood I retrieved from the floor."
"Blood?"
"Your friend would not cooperate," Rri'jan said.  "Much like Forgotten, before I killed him."
Kim's heart spasmed, her fists clenching at her sides.  She pushed her consciousness back into his body, preparing to end him.
"Ah," Rri'jan said, "But it is sweet to see that look upon your face, Human.  I'd almost think you were going to kill me.  But you see, you can't do that."
Kim hesitated.  "Why not?"
Rri'jan motioned to the controls of the ship.  "You cannot operate this ship without me."
Cold horror washed down Kim's skin in waves.  She felt her bladder tighten, like it wanted to expend itself.  She could not travel with the Huouyt. 
"That's not Syuri?" Larry demanded.  He put his body between Kim and the Huouyt.  "Who is it, then?"
"A Huouyt," she said.  "Rri'jan Ze'laa."  She touched her steel fingers.  "He's the one who did this."  She once more glanced at the Huouyt, not sure what to do.  She wasn't letting him get close to her, that was for sure.  She'd rather starve to death in space than let him get his hands on her, Larry, or Blue Rose.
Especially Blue.  She glanced behind her at the door to the room.  Don't let him see you, she warned the Minder.
I already removed myself from the ship, Blue told her.
Kim blinked, unable to remember the Minder's departure, but relieved nonetheless.  Anything to keep another Minder out of his hands.  "Where are we going?" Kim asked Rri'jan.
"Earth," the Huouyt said.  "I am going to take you back home."
"You're not going to kill us?"  Kim didn't understand.
The Huouyt made an amused noise.  "My vendetta was with Forgotten.  In Earth terms, if the king is dead, the game is over and the pawns are no longer needed.  I could kill you or take you back to the Tribunal, but I felt like the flight back would be more stimulating."  He took a step towards her.
"Don't," Kim cried, panic rising in her throat as she remembered his poisons.  "Stay away from us.  Don't come any closer, Huouyt."
Rri'jan paused, gave her an amused look, then continued toward her.
Kim focused on the arm he'd used to poison her, changing the particles to water.
Rri'jan stopped, staring down at his arm, still dripping water and blood.  As she watched, the red worms twisted in his stomach, spreading out and pushing substances up his torso, through his shoulder, and into his arm.  His limb grew back as if it had never disappeared.
"Ah."  Rri'jan dug into his clothes and retrieved a tubular object that resembled a pen.  He pointed it at her and depressed a button in its side.
Larry lunged in front of her, then suddenly went stiff.
"Larry?"
The Takki collapsed.
Fury swept through Kim in a torrent of tiny painful prickles.  She brought all of her attention to her second consciousness, slowing the motion of the particles around her to a standstill.  The Huouyt stood as he had been, his eyes fixed on Larry, the tube in his hands now aimed at Kim.
I won't let it happen again, Kim thought.
But she had promised Forgotten she wouldn't kill the assassin.  She'd promised him as he died.  Only a monster would deny someone their final wish.
But she was facing a monster.  He was going to hurt them both, spend the next few weeks hurting them both.  He'd enjoy every minute of it, and even if he did leave them alive, they wouldn't be whole.
She dropped into her second consciousness, which had been her second home of late.  As time slowed, she dissolved the tube into water.  Then, before the Huouyt could replace it, she focused on the wormy red appendage in his chest.  After watching his arm regrow, she was sure the wormy clump was somehow responsible for the Huouyt's ability to shape-shift.  She grabbed it with her mind, not caring if it killed him.  She was not going to let him hurt anyone again.
Nudging it with a thought, the wormy red appendage disappeared, becoming one with the slime and mucous in Rri'jan's stomach chamber.  When she was sure that the body could support itself and had suffered no ill effects from the transfer, she moved back into Rri'jan's arm.  She disintegrated it again, along with the two additional tubes he carried under his clothing.  Then she pulled back and allowed time to move naturally once more.
Rri'jan laughed as he watched his hand once more dissolve into water and cascade to the floor.  "You Humans do not learn very quickly, do you?"
"No," Kim said as she watched his face change from amusement to confusion.  "We do."
The assassin laughed and lazily lifted the stub of an arm.  "But we've already been through this.  I can regrow limbs like a Jahul can shit itself."  He paused, staring at his limb.  Then he froze as the truncated limb continued to dribble slime onto the floor.  A moment later, he looked up at her in horror.  "What did you do?"
"Fix Larry."
Rri'jan stared at her.
"Fix Larry or I'll take your other hand," Kim said, taking a step towards him.  "And your eyes.  Maybe half your brain."
Rri'jan's froglike Jahul mouth was open as he stared.  On the floor, Larry started to convulse.
"Now, fucker!" Kim shouted.
Like a machine that had lost its bolts, Rri'jan stumbled forward and knelt before the Takki.  The assassin lifted a scale on the Takki's neck.  He plucked a vial from his shirt, then delicately pressed the sliver inside into the skin underneath the scale. 
"That better have fixed him," Kim snapped, watching the reaction in her mind.  "If it's another fake antidote, I'll take your other arm."
"It's not fake," Rri'jan, staring at her.  "You're...changed...Human.  Different."
Kim ignored him and monitored the Takki.  She found the place where Rri'jan's dart had originally struck and began tracing the chemicals as they spread out throughout his body.  The new chemical, to her surprise, seemed to be slowing the spread, reversing it, dissolving it.  In moments, Larry stopped convulsing and his body went limp on the floor.  Kim removed both the antidote and the poison, just in case the cure was worse than the disease.
A moment later, Larry groaned and twisted away from Rri'jan, looking like a hunted rabbit.
"So," Rri'jan said, rising, "I see you and I will have to come to an understanding."
"There will be no 'understanding,'" Kim said, finding every vial on his body and dissolving them to water.  "You're gonna do exactly as I say, from this moment on, or you're going to be a Jahul for the rest of your life."
The assassin held her gaze as the wet stains appeared in his clothing, his eyes piercing and unreadable, completely unlike Syuri's.  "Ah," he finally said, then looked away.  Not for the first time, Kim wished she had Sky's ability to read minds.  "I wasn't going to hurt you," the Huouyt said finally.  "I made the Geuji a promise on his deathbed, on my honor."  He slapped a hand over his chest, where the wormy appendage had once been.  Kim tensed, ready to throw herself back into her second consciousness if he tried to fire something else at her, but Rri'jan simply turned and sat down in the captain's chair in silence.  "I promised him if he made his death satisfying enough for me, I would spare his friends."
"That's the assassin?" Larry whispered.  "What did you do to him?"  The Takki had crab-crawled back until he was side-by-side with Kim.
From the chair, Rri'jan laughed.  "She made me a Jahul."  He shook his head, staring at his truncated arm.  His laughter became desperate.  "She made me a Jahul."
"I took away his ability to change the shape of his body," Kim said.  "Permanently.  I'm guessing that means he can't make poisons anymore, but I'd still stay away from him just in case."
Looking shaken, Larry slowly got to his feet and once more put himself between Kim and the Huouyt.  "So what do we do with him?"
Kim bit her lip.  She didn't know what to do with him.  Somehow, the assassin had to get them back to the trading post so they could break Syuri out of jail.
"She can't do anything with me," Rri'jan said.  "I am your only pilot."
"Take us back to the trading post," Kim said.
Rri'jan looked her straight in the eyes and said, "No."
"No?!" Larry all but shouted.  "You're not in a position to bargain, Huouyt.  Between my strength and Kim's Maker ability, we could do anything we wanted to you."
"But you won't," Rri'jan said, giving them a smug look.  "You are not like me."
Kim wasn't so sure.  She remembered the agony in Forgotten's eyes as he died.
"Why did you kill him?" she asked.
"Forgotten did not keep his word."  As if it were natural for him to die for that.
"Forgotten always keeps his word," Kim said, balling her fists.  "You just didn't read the fine print."
"You think he's innocent."  Rri'jan watched her with bitter amusement.  "Your loyalty is misplaced.  Forgotten took a billion times more lives than I."
"Don't compare yourself to him," Kim snapped, barely containing her anger.  "You won't make your situation any better."
"It is truth," Rri'jan said.  "The Geuji's power lies in manipulating others.  While he was alive, Forgotten made entire civilizations collapse.  His actions alone were the cause behind the war on Neskfaat.  Millions died as he pulled the strings."
Kim twitched.  She had heard of Neskfaat in her history lessons.  Joe Dobbs had survived it, against all odds.  From what she had heard, they had been fighting Dhasha...
"Oh shut up," Larry snapped, cuffing the assassin hard in the face.  Rri'jan's head twitched to the side, but he did not react.  Did not even look up.
"Don't make yourself to be a martyr," Larry said, looming over him.  "You killed him because he humiliated you."
"Larry," Kim whispered, touching his arm.  The Takki relented and backed away from the assassin.
"So what do we do with him?" Larry demanded.  "If we leave him alive, he'll give us to the Peacemakers or find a way to kill us both."
Rri'jan snorted.  "And trap myself as a Jahul forever?  I don't think so, Takki."
"You are trapped forever," Kim said.  "I'm not returning that thing to you."
The assassin glanced up.  "I was hoping to convince you.  You see, I apparently know something you don't know, and it could mean the life of your friend Sky."
The statement gave her chills and she almost killed him right then.  Somehow, she found the courage to say, "I'm not giving it back."
"Oh, but I think you will," he said, with extreme confidence.  "I will earn it."
Larry scoffed.  "That'll be the day."
"How?" Kim whispered.
"Kim, you don't really think—"
"I'll help you free Sky from the Sanctuary," Rri'jan said.  "Before they execute him."
Kim laughed.  "Sky can take care of himself."
"Your friend has been strapped into brainwashing machines since Kragkhen ordered Mullich's apartments searched.  If there is anything left of his mind at all, we would simply be saving a husk of what he once was."
Kim's heart skipped a beat.  "How long?"
"To save him?  We have to travel to Koliinaat.  A week.  Ten days at most."
"No," Kim whispered.  "How long has he been like that?"
"Over half a rotation."
Kim let out a little gasp and stumbled backwards.
"So you see," Rri'jan said quietly, "Now we both have something the other wants."







CHAPTER 41: Changes
The more research Fred did, the more he was convinced that Forgotten and Sky had been right—Sjilak had betrayed them.  He could find no files on the Trith anywhere, not even the records of him being in Fred's room for three months.  Somebody had found the Trith, of that he was certain.  Who, though, was the question.  Who had the power to force the Watcher to change its records?
Kragkhen.
Fred felt a palpitation of fear before he got it under control.  No, if the Dhasha had captured the Trith, he would have used him as evidence in the trial.  That meant it had to be Aliphei or Daviin, but neither of them seemed to be—
"Have they executed him yet?"
Fred cried out and jerked around.  A Jahul stood in the room with him, along with a Takki and Kim.  It was the Jahul who had spoken.
"Kim who are these two?" Fred asked warily.
"This is Larry," Kim said, touching the Takki's arm.  "He will be representing the Takki."  She nodded at the Jahul, making no effort to approach him.  "That is Rri'jan."
"Representing the—"  Then Kim's final statement registered and Fred stiffened.  He was only two feet from the Huouyt, close enough to reach out and touch him.  He quickly backed away, until he was on the opposite side of the room.  "Kim, please explain yourself."
"I'm going to be the Takki Representative," Larry said.  "And that one-armed bandit over there is the same puddle of slime that cut off Kim's fingers."
Fred was so stunned he could only stare at the Takki.  "He speaks for himself?"
His statement obviously displeased the creature.  "Do you have a problem with that, bud?"
Suddenly, everything clicked in Fred's mind.  "Species Recognition.  That's why he made me take it.  Forgotten wanted the Takki's status raised to sentience."
Larry made a growling deep within his chest.  "Raised to sentience?  I've spent the last twelve years governing a deep den within the Origin," Larry said.  "What have you done, other than hand Earth over for the Draft?"
As if nothing else had been said in the interim, Rri'jan said, "Have they executed him yet?"
Fred turned to look once more at the Huouyt.  There could only be one person he was talking about.  "No."
"Good."  The assassin grabbed the Takki's arm and shoved him at Fred.  "Deal with the Takki.  Kim and I will free Sky."
Hurling a curse, the Takki swung around and drove his palms into the Huouyt's Jahul-patterned chest, throwing him backwards and onto the floor.
"Don't touch me," the Takki spat down at the Huouyt.  "Do it again and I'll gut you."
As Fred watched in shock, Rri'jan simply pulled himself back to his six feet and nodded.  Then he spoke a command to the Watcher and he and Kim disappeared.  Fred stared at the point where they had vanished, not sure he wasn't imagining it all.
"Was that really Rri'jan?" Fred whispered.
Larry looked at him, the violet scales over his brow-ridges puckering in a frown.  "You know him?"
"Why did Kim go with him?"  Fred was frightened, now.  "What does he have over her?"
Larry laughed, a clicking rumble in his throat.  "You mean what does Kim have on him."  When Fred merely gave him a blank look, he said, "She locked him in that shape.  Took away his ability to change form."
"You mean..."  Fred glanced back at the place where they had disappeared.  "She took his zora from him?  Permanently?"
"Until Kim gives it back."
Suddenly, Fred understood.  A cold feeling crept down his spine.  "She can't give it back.  He'll kill us all."
"He can try."  Larry almost looked forward to it.
Fred examined the Takki.  How would he get Larry accepted?  The Dhasha would never let the Takki go.  Congress would be in an uproar.
Still...
"Forgotten wants you to become the Representative for Takki?"
Larry's fight left him.  "Forgotten is dead.  Rri'jan killed him."
The dark way that the Takki said it left no doubt in Fred's mind that he was telling the truth.
"Forgotten is..."  But it made sense.  Fred hadn't received a missive from the Geuji in over a week.  Before that, they had been arriving regularly on his bed once or twice a day.
His entire future began to crumble.  Without the Geuji to back him, all of his posturing in the Regency was for naught.  He would lose his seats and Earth would have to fight a war.  He'd be a hostage, or perhaps executed on the spot.
It can still work, a rebellious part of him insisted, staring at the Takki.
"How good are you at public speeches?" Fred asked finally.
The Takki grinned, showing black teeth.  "With Dhasha in the crowd?"  He snorted.  "You have to be damn good to keep their attention.  Otherwise the bloated frogs just fall asleep."
"You..."  Fred stared at the Takki, stunned.  "You governed Dhasha?"
"And humans," the Takki said.
"Are—"  Fred cut himself off, deciding to be tactful.  "I'm not trying to insult you, but are all Takki on Earth as...aggressive...as you?"
The Takki stiffened minutely.  "You mean do they stick up for themselves or do they bow and scrape like the slaves we are?"
"No," Fred said quickly.  "I just want to know if there are more that could come...as proof..."
"Every Takki on Earth will stand up to a Dhasha any day of the week," Larry replied, giving Fred a proud glance.  "I want to unite the rest of my kind.  Free them from the lives they've allowed themselves to live."
"I'll bet you do," Fred whispered.  If the Takki were free, the Dhasha would be nullified as a threat.  They would starve to death without the Takki to help them.  Half of Congress's fighting force would be wiped out.
Larry clapped his hands and rubbed them together enthusiastically.  "So when do we begin?"
Fred glanced down at the notes on his desk.  He could call an emergency meeting of the Species Recognition Council that very night, but he wasn't sure the Takki was ready.  If he took him before Congress and he devolved into a frightened slave, Fred would lose all the respect he had gained in the past months.
"Forgotten said there's some tests I'll have to go through," Larry offered, looking irritated but willing.  "I'll take any test.  Bring it on."
"Come," Fred said.  "I want you to meet a few of my friends."  The Grand Six were not members of such an insignificant board as Species Recognition, but if they appeared at a meeting and opened their mouths in Fred's favor, he just might be able to make things work.  "They're powerful politicians though," Fred warned.  "You cannot be overly aggressive."  Hearing himself say it, he felt like a fool.  Never in a million years would he have imagined himself counseling a Takki not to be aggressive.
"Sure," Larry said, a vicious grin playing over his snout, exposing sharp black teeth.  "I'll just charm them with my wit."
And he did.  Rakken thought the Takki was a grand joke and continued to glance at Fred, waiting for the punchline.  When Fred finally told him that all the Takki of Earth were as outspoken and self-confident as Larry, Rakken finally understood.
"You're making him a Representative."  Rakken stared at Larry like he couldn't decide if he were a poisonous snake or a priceless jewel.  Finally, he said, "Kragkhen would never allow it."
"Kragkhen can't stop it," Fred said.
Verbhan was even more amused.  "The Dhasha will consider it blasphemy."
"The Dhasha are hotheads and fools," Larry said.
Verbhan studied him carefully.  "Yes, but you are their favorite entrée, my friend.  You would cut off their food supply."
"They can eat something else," Larry said.  "It is criminal what they do."
"Perhaps it is."  Verbhan rubbed a tentacle along the side of his face, "But they are a majority of Congressional military power.  Even if you decreed all Takki suddenly free, they simply would not allow it.  They might even rebel over it.  Congress cannot suffer another great Dhasha rebellion.  Neskfaat terrified us."
"Just Earth then," Fred said.  "They cannot deny Larry's intelligence."
"No!" Larry snapped.  "We will free them all."
Verbhan gave Larry a sad look.  "I understand your dilemma, Takki, but that won't be possible, as much as you wish it were."  To Fred, he said, "Their intelligence was never in question, Mullich.  It was their sense of Self.  All of the other Takki I've seen do not think of themselves as anything more than an extension of their master.  An expendable extension.  They take pride in being eaten."
"There are no masters on Earth," Larry said stubbornly.
"And therein might lie your problem," Verbhan said, watching him.  "It's the Minders, isn't it?  They are keeping the Dhasha at bay."
"The Dhasha are citizens.  Just like the rest of us."
"Wait."  Rakken squinted at him.  "They do not rule?"
"Not unless they are qualified."
Verbhan nodded.  "Then the Minders are keeping them at bay."
"Even if they are," Larry said, "We live in peace.  If we can do it, everyone can do it."
"Culture is a difficult thing to change," Verbhan said.  "You may try, Larry, but you will ultimately fail.  When you do, the backlash from your efforts will be worse than anything the Takki faced before you tried to change it.  It is the way of the world."
"I'm changing the world."
Verbhan's eyes glistened with amusement.  "Very well.  I'll help you, Mullich.  When is your session?"
"Tomorrow.  I will send you a reminder."
Verbhan nodded and departed.
Genbiraa was much easier to convince.  "Delightful," she said, upon meeting Larry.  "I trust his brain has not been altered in any way?"
"Not at all."
"You can prove this?"
"Examine me, if you wish," Larry said.  "You will find nothing abnormal."
"Delightful," Genbiraa said again, her jeweled crest fluttering.  "And what will you do once you have said seat, Takki?"
"I'll lead the Takki to freedom."
Genbiraa laughed.  "Then I wish you well.  It's long overdue."
"You will come and support us at the next Species meeting?" Fred said.
"Oh, I'll definitely be there," the Ueshi said, eyes glimmering with excitement.  "But most likely only to watch the fireworks."
"I don't like her," Larry said once Genbiraa was gone.
"Few do," Fred said.  "The primary concern of any Ueshi is its own pleasure.  She very likely meant just what she said—she will come to watch the show, not to intervene."
"And she is a friend?" Larry said with disgust.
"She's not an enemy.  She'll oppose whomever it pleases her on a given day, except myself and Rakken.  The two of us control the keys to her pleasure-planets, so she will be wary of stepping on our toes.  That makes her a friend."
Instead of cringing or looking overwhelmed by the politics of the Regency, Larry looked energized.  "I can't wait."
#
"The Watcher has no power inside the Sanctuary.  That is why."  Rri'jan sounded annoyed.  "Anything else?"
"What will they do if they figure out what we're doing?"
"They'll kill us both, though they will not be very creative about it.  They'll probably spend a few minutes interrogating us, then use high-powered plasma to punch through our bodies and kill us both."
"Why do I have to wear this?"  Kim wiggled her fingers, feeling highly uncomfortable.  Rri'jan had secured her elbows and wrists with blue metal handcuffs that he had stolen from a Peacemaker drinking off-duty.
"That is not all you will wear," Rri'jan said, bending.  He snapped a cuff around each of her ankles, connected by a thin blue chain.  After that, he snapped another, lone, blue bracelet beneath the calf of her left leg.
"What's that?" Kim asked.  She felt like a pig strung up for the butcher.
"It's an ankle chain," Rri'jan said, standing.
"No, the other one."  Kim had drifted up to it and was examining it with her second consciousness.  There was something about it she did not like, but she could not put her finger on it.
"It's standard," Rri'jan said.  "It's what they use to identify prisoners."
Rri'jan was fully dressed in Peacemaker black, looking every bit commanding and in charge.  "Now you remember what I told you?"
"You told me a lot," Kim muttered.
"Good.  Know, Human, that if something goes wrong and they manage to put you under, I will not stay."
Kim nodded.
"This is a very delicate situation," Rri'jan said.  "Do you need another moment to analyze the substance?"
Kim once again glanced at the vial of fluid he'd showed her.  "No.  It looks pretty simple."
"Let's hope it's simple enough to save your life."  Rri'jan snapped several more pieces of equipment to his stolen belt and gave her one more once-over.  "Try to look more subdued, human.  You look too lively."
Kim supposed the Huouyt would have experience with prisoners being subdued.  She prayed she wasn't making a huge mistake and nodded.  If she hadn't taken her second consciousness into the Sanctuary and seen Sky herself, she never would have allowed herself to be put in this situation.  As it was, she was keenly uncomfortable, realizing the assassin could probably poison her before she could move away.
"Are you ready?"
"As ready as I'm ever going to be," Kim whispered, closing her eyes.
Rri'jan unhesitatingly made the command for the Watcher to take them to the Peacemaker Sanctuary.
As soon as they reappeared on the other side, Rri'jan began shouting.
"We captured the other Human!  Get off your asses, you bumbling Takki!  Get me a gurney and drugs!  She shows telepathic abilities—stronger than the other one.  Hurry!"
As soon as the dozen Peacemakers on the other side laid eyes on Kim—and on the symbol on Rri'jan's chest, they took off on a run.
"Hurry!" Rri'jan screamed.  "She's screwing with my head!"
They brought drugs within minutes.  Kim saw the syringe and quailed, but she could not back out now.  She opened her eyes wide and pretended to struggle as the aliens grabbed her and removed her from the restraints.  Their rock-iron limbs, however, left her even less freedom as they pinned her to the floor, face-down, one of them pressing its weight into her spine, pushing the air from her lungs.
Kim felt herself begin to panic.
Calm down, she told herself.  Rri'jan is helping me.
Then a horrible thought occurred to her.  What if he wasn't helping her?  What if that substance was actually worse than the ones they were going to inject into her?  What if it drove her back into her body, making it impossible to use her second consciousness?
Kim felt the prick of the needle and still she hesitated, damning herself for not thinking of it earlier.  What if this had been Rri'jan's plan all along?  What if he knew she would never give his zora back and only wanted to see her pay?
It's too late to back out now.
Realizing that fact, Kim held her breath and focused on the substance inside the syringe.  Time seemed to come to a standstill as she replaced it with the liquid Rri'jan had shown her.
"Shit!" she heard the Ooreiki holding her cry.
"What?"
"I could've sworn that shot just changed color."
"He's fucking with your head," another snapped.  "Damn it, Hujah, do it!"
The technician administering the shot depressed the plunger, injecting the liquid into Kim's bloodstream.  She watched it go with a sort of morbid fascination, the entire shot circulating to every part of her body within seconds.
Kim felt her muscles go limp.
She panicked all over again.  Rri'jan had warned her of this, true, but she was utterly helpless.
I could still remove it, she thought, watching the particles float through her bloodstream and into her brain.
Rri'jan's warning came back to her.  Leave it in your bloodstream, even if you can remove it.  We will need your body to hibernate for a while.
So Kim simply watched it.  Then, when she was positive she wasn't going to lose access to her second consciousness, she backed away, watching the aliens move her body with a disassociated interest.  As they lifted and carried her, Rri'jan followed along, barking orders.
They carried Kim to a room deep within the bowels of the Sanctuary.  She felt a thrill when she realized she was only one wall away from Sky.  On the other side, he lay placidly on a table, strapped down but unfettered with machines.  His body had grown bony, his cushioning muscles and tissues almost nonexistent.  Earlier that day, Kim had destroyed the inner workings of the machines they had hooked him to, granting him a few hours of peace while the technicians attempted to repair them.
With the brainwashing equipment defunct, the aliens had no recourse but to strap her down to the table, run some tests, and lock her inside.
Kim drifted over Sky's body as she waited, terrified and infuriated at the damage.  She hovered over his peaceful face, only millimeters above his nose, and watched his eye lazily move back and forth underneath the lid.
Please be all right, she thought, biting her lip.  She hadn't been here to help him.
If he shows any sign of insanity, you must kill him.  Rri'jan's warning went off like a gong in her head.  A creature like him is too powerful not to be in complete control.
Kim had argued, but Rri'jan had made his final point quite clearly—like Kim changing the ruvmestin, the Minder could kill everyone on Koliinaat with a thought. 
Your friend has been brainwashed for half a rotation, Kim.  Either he has succumbed to it and docilely worships Congress, or he resisted and is on the brink of madness.  It would be better to let them kill him.
But Kim had refused.  She had told Rri'jan that retrieving Sky was the only way he would ever get his zora back.
Rri'jan, in turn, had simply stood before her, staring at her, waiting for her to acknowledge the truth—that there was no use retrieving Sky if he had lost his mind.  If that were the case, the mercy would be to kill him.
So, aching inside, she agreed.
Now, hovering over his placid face, she wondered just how much remained of Sky—and how much Congress had changed.
Motion back in her own room made Kim shift her attention to her body.
Rri'jan walked around the table, examining the instruments around her.  He paused, staring down at her.
Kim held a mental breath.  Would he help her?  Or was he here to gloat?
For long moments, Rri'jan did nothing, simply stared at her.  It was unnatural, and it gave her a cold feeling, watching it.  Then the assassin reached out and removed the restraints holding her arms and legs in place.
"Now you may remove the drug," she heard him say.  He was still watching her with that cold, unreadable look.
Kim sank into her bloodstream and changed all remaining traces of the substance to water.  Slowly, groggily, her body began to return to normal as the substance remaining in her muscles and brain was metabolized by the tiny intricate parts.
She opened her eyes, generating a dual image of the assassin's face, one from her body and one from her second consciousness.
"Aliphei fooled them all," Rri'jan said.  "He was not going to kill your friend."
Kim blinked and sat up, rubbing her wrists.  "What?"
"He was going to use him."  Rri'jan watched her closely.
"Use him to do what?" Kim whispered.
"Kill."
Kim felt her heart stop.
"The scientists I spoke to were sure he was on the verge of breaking," Rri'jan continued.  "If he has broken, Kim, if he's become the First Citizen's puppet, you must kill him.  Do you understand?"
Kim looked away.
Rri'jan took her wrist in a tight grip, forcing her to look back at him.  "If he is, you must eliminate his brain completely.  Leave no trace.  We do not know where the telepathy resides, and if you miss it, it will be chaos."
She was taking advice on murdering her friend from a professional assassin.  She wanted to cry.  She nodded instead.
"Very well."  Rri'jan went to stand before the opposite wall.  "A hole here."
Kim sank her consciousness into the wall and it sloshed away wetly.  Rri'jan stepped through, unhesitating.  She lowered herself off the table and followed.
"We will only have a minute before they are here," Rri'jan said.  He took a syringe from his vest and uncapped the end.  It was already filled with a vile-looking yellow-orange liquid.  He touched the needle to the inside of Sky's elbow.  Fascinated, Kim dropped her second consciousness over his arm, until the needle towered above her like a skyscraper.  She watched it depress and then pierce the skin, pushing the cells to either side and penetrating the speeding freeway of the vein. 
Rri'jan squeezed the plunger and orangish liquid began to flow into Sky's bloodstream.  Immediately, Sky's body gave a startled jerk.
Rri'jan finished and dropped the needle into the wastebasket.  Then he stared down at Sky as he had stared down at Kim.  It made her uncomfortable, so she said, "Is he awake?"
"Not yet."  Rri'jan continued to hover, motionless.  "Prepare yourself."
Kim knew he meant for her to take hold of Sky's brain in case the Minder had lost his mind, but it still didn't prepare her for the telepathic boom that knocked her to the floor.
Even Rri'jan looked affected.  He backed away, eyes fixed to the telepath's face.  Kim stood back up and looked down on her friend.
Sky's eye was open—and it was wild.  He obviously had no idea where he was or why.
"Kill him," Rri'jan whispered.
Kim bent to touch Sky.  "Sky, it's me. Shh.  Don't worry.  We're just—"
Sky's gaze snapped to her suddenly and a monumental pain drove her to her knees.  Kim could only scream, grabbing at her temples, the torment like a billion wasps stinging the inside of her skull.
"Kill him!" Rri'jan screamed.  Then he, too, fell to the floor.
"Sky!" Kim cried.  "Sky please!"
The pain went on.  She heard running footsteps, heard the door open, then heard the intruders fall to the ground as they, too, began to scream.  Kim continued to hover in Sky's brain, her second consciousness gripping the squiggly gray matter like a lifeline.
Somewhere, dimly, Kim realized her mind was buckling.  Sky had begun tearing it apart and she could feel herself losing control.  She could feel every memory she'd ever had surface violently, all at the same time.  It was too much.  She could feel herself dying. 
Yet still she waited.
I can't kill him, she thought, stunned and horrified.  He's my friend and I can't kill him. 
The pain ended as abruptly as it had begun, leaving an overpowering dizziness in its wake.  Kim stared at the floor under her nose, willing it to stop moving.
Kim?
The touch on her mind was soft and delicate.  Tentative.
Kim forced herself to sit up.  Beside her, on the floor, Rri'jan continued to scream in high-pitched Jahul tones.
"Stop hurting him," she cried.  "Please, Sky, Rri'jan is trying to help us."
He took your fingers.
"But he's helping us now.  Please.  Don't hurt him." 
I don't need him to escape.  The thought was dark, angry.  Kim felt a stab of fear.  Only twice before had she ever felt anything like it from a Minder.  It made her stomach quiver.
She glanced behind her and saw the Ooreiki technicians who had run inside were still screaming as well.  "Sky, you're hurting them."
They hurt me, he said, getting to his feet.  They all hurt me.
Sky's brain continued to hover within her consciousness, the squiggly red veins pulsing before her.  With her physical body, she glanced from the technicians to Rri'jan, all of whom continued to scream until their bodies were expended and they could scream no more.  She realized, with horrible certainty, that Sky was changed.  He was not the same person he had been going into the Sanctuary.
Sky could kill.
She stood up and, taking a steadying breath, Kim slapped him.
The screaming stopped.
Sky's head swiveled to stare at her, his expression utterly unreadable, the telepathic power of the room thick enough to choke her.
Why?
"You were hurting them," Kim whispered.  "You don't hurt people, Sky."
His blue eye darkened.  I do now. 
Then, without asking her, Sky used her power to build himself another eye out of the air around them.  When he blinked, two blue orbs stared back at her.
Though she'd planned on doing that very thing for him for weeks now, Kim felt sick, seeing the perfect iris back in place.
Let's go, Sky said, lowering himself from the table.  Before I kill them all.
That statement frightened her more than anything she had every known, more than Rri'jan, more than her fear of the Dhasha.  Kim swallowed hard.  "What about Rri'jan?"
Leave him here to rot.
Kim glanced back at the assassin, biting her lip.  "I promised I would give him back his—"
Sky was already walking out.
Closing her eyes and praying she was doing the right thing, she quickly replaced the Huouyt's zora.
They deserve to die, Sky said, glancing at the slumped forms gasping in the hallway like an executioner, seeming to revel in the way the terrified Peacemakers crawled away from them as they passed.  All of them deserve to die.
Kim caught up with him.  "You're scaring me."
Sky glanced at her, his two eyes focusing on her as if she were some queer bug.  I've always scared you.
"Not like this," she whispered.
Sky grunted and strolled calmly through the center of the Sanctuary.  Every Peacemaker in the room was on the floor, whimpering, or slumped in a chair, unconscious.  Kim had known Sky was capable of doing it all along, but seeing him in action now terrified her.  Where would it stop?  Earlier, he had refused to defend himself, even when Rri'jan took his eye.  Now he was lashing out, causing people pain when he didn't need to—he could simply do as he always did and make them not be seen.
I agree with Blue Rose, Sky said.  We should kill them all.  He paused in the hall, his eyes losing focus.
"Sky!" Kim shouted, grabbing his arm again.  "Don't you dare!  You made a deal with Forgotten!"
He scowled down at her.  It is my deal to break.
Kim bit her lip.  "We can still do it.  You're alive.  Mullich has the Trade chair.  We can still try to save them."
They hurt me, Sky repeated.  He swept his hand out to include the ceiling and floors.  I no longer care about saving them.
"What are you saying!" Kim cried.  "We can still finish it.  Don't kill these people for nothing, Sky."
Sky snorted.  Everyone dies for nothing.  But he began walking again anyway.
"Where are we going?" Kim asked, tentative, afraid to speak lest his eyes go unfocused again and all of Koliinaat go silent.
Away.  I cannot stand this place any longer.  I'll start killing them.







CHAPTER 42: The New Representative
Fred watched the Takki give his speech in front of the stunned assemblage.  More than double its normal size from the curious and the outraged, Fred found himself in the middle of a dozen-species shouting match.
"Stop it!" he snapped, pounding his fist against his podium, eliciting a warning sound resembling a thunderclap.  "One at a time."
"This is ludicrous," Kaj'nol said.  "Everyone knows the Takki have no sense of Self."
"Don't I, you spineless spawn of a Dhasha asshole?" Larry snapped.  "Perhaps you would like to come down here and discuss it with me."
Kaj'nol scowled at Larry.  "The creature has clearly been brainwashed."
One of Fred's constituents nervously cleared his throat.  "Mullich gave us indisputable proof..."
"He lied," Kragkhen snapped.  "The Takki is a puppet, nothing more.  Remove the master and he will crumble like a rag."
Larry's scales tightened against his chest as he glared at the Dhasha.  "Did you just call me a slave, you ignorant beast?  Perhaps I should have a chat with your attendants and see how well you can feed yourself afterwards.  Blubbering imbecile."
Fred winced as the translators repeated Larry's words in a hundred different tongues.  When Kragkhen heard the translation, his scales flattened against his body and he lunged out of his seat, making his way down the stands with a snarl.
Verbhan stepped into his path.  "He is under the Council's protection until his status can be determined, Kragkhen."
"Get out of my way," the Dhasha snapped, glaring at Larry, a mountain of glistening, rainbow-colored metal ready to tear him apart.
"Go back to your seat, Representative Kragkhen," Fred ordered, "Or I will have the Watcher remove you."
The Dhasha's claws dug into the floor under the indignity of Fred's words, but at least his eyes shifted to Fred instead of remaining fixed on Larry.  Regardless of how invincible the Takki felt himself, Fred knew that one bat with the Dhasha's claws would shred him alive.
"Go," Fred commanded again.  "You have three seconds."
Snarling, Kragkhen went back to his seat, his every motion jerky and mechanical.  "I will eat him later," Kragkhen promised.  "Once the Council throws out his case."
Fred felt a chill, knowing that Kragkhen would do exactly as he said.  No one in the room could stop a Dhasha, and none of them would try.  Once the session was over, the Watcher would no longer respond to his commands, and due to his position on the Tribunal, the Watcher would never follow Fred's command over the Dhasha's, so all Kragkhen would have to do would be to wait until the Council adjourned.  Then he could casually stroll up to Larry and tear him apart.
Fred's closest constituent, a diminutive Diirgi with a bright red and black color pattern, filled the silence with, "Then the question before the Council today must be answered in this session."
"I say the Takki is showing an obvious sense of Self," Rakken commented, giving the tiny flying biped a curious look.  "Where's the question?"
The poor creature, a non-existent on the power scale, flustered at Rakken's hard stare and couldn't respond.
"There is no question," Fred said.  "Larry has proved his species' sentience.  I say we liberate them."
"To which 'them' are you referring?" Daviin commented.  Fred jerked, not realizing the Jreet had been present.  "Because, as far as I see, only Earth's Takki have achieved the requirements of a sentient species."
"It is true," Kragkhen said immediately.  "Thus they must be counted as an abomination, not the true typecast of the species."
"Or they may be a subspecies," Daviin said.  "Though genetically, Larry is identical to the Takki that serve you as you sleep, Kragkhen."
That seemed to ruffle the Dhasha's feathers.  "The whole concept is lunacy.  Takki are not sentient.  We established that when the Dhasha joined Congress."
"And yet we have proof of our mistake right here," Daviin said, nodding his diamond-shaped head at Larry.
"Mistake."  Kragkhen scoffed.  "It was not a mistake.  Give me two minutes with the creature and he will cause us no more problems."
"Ah," Daviin said.  "And right there, you have put your talon on the problem, Kragkhen.  What would the Takki be without masters?  What would they be as free, contributing citizens to our society?  They would be like Larry, as Earth has clearly shown us.  And yet, Earth's economy is unique in that it does not allow slaves.  So we really haven't had a way to test the theory in any other part of the universe because Dhasha will snap up any unclaimed Takki they come across, giving them no chance to develop on their own.  Isn't this the case, Kragkhen?"
"Takki are slaves," Kragkhen snapped.  "Everyone knows this."
"I don't know this," Larry said, glaring directly at the Dhasha, ignoring the golden rule Fred had pounded into him over and over—never look a Dhasha in the eyes.  "I am not a slave."
"You will be," Kragkhen said.  "And I will make you beg forgiveness before I eat you."
"Try it, Dhasha," Larry laughed.  "I'll lock you in your chambers and let you starve to death in your own shit."
"You see how he baits me?!" Kragkhen roared.  "It is unnatural."
"It is completely natural," Genbiraa said, her face amused.  "It is so easy."
"Careful, Ueshi," the Dhasha warned.  "You do not want to cross me."
"I don't?  This is confusing, Dhasha, because I find myself wanting very much to see you squirm.  My vote is to let the Takki in."
"You don't have a vote," Kragkhen roared.
Fred glanced at his constituents on the board.  All of them looked thoroughly terrified.
Great, Fred thought.  Damn it, who told the Dhasha we would be here?  He's frightening their wits out of them.
"He has my vote, too," Verbhan said.
"And mine," Rakken stated.
"And mine."  Daviin stretched his neck until he was staring down at the other members of the Species Recognition Board, piercing them with his gaze.  "You were sworn onto this committee to do what was moral and right, not caper to the whims of the Dhasha."
"Daviin, I am warning you," Kragkhen snarled.  "Stay out of this."
"I have just as much stake in this as you, Kragkhen."
"An obvious lie."
"And who will prove me wrong, Dhasha?  You?"
Fred could see the two Tribunal members were close to blows—which meant the entire assemblage was dangerously close to death.  He decided he had to act.  "We vote," he said, silencing the two Tribunal members and making them turn to face him.
"We vote," he repeated.  "My vote is for admission."
"Denial," the jittery companion beside him said.
"Denial," another responded.
"Admission," one said, staring at the table and nowhere else.
"You will pay, fool," Kragkhen growled.
"Silence yourself!" Fred snapped.  "Or I'll cut every one of your planets out of the trade loop.  I swear it."
His reminder that he was the Trade Chairman did not go unnoticed.  The final three members looked like deer caught in the headlights.
Dear God, Fred thought, looking at their faces.  They were going to vote to deny him.  All three.
"Admission," one of them croaked.
"And you!" Kragkhen snarled.
"Watcher, remove the Dhasha from the council chambers and do not readmit him."
The Watcher did as he commanded, to Kragkhen's roar of rage.
"Denial," the sixth member said, staring at his fingers.
The entire council chamber waited on the last member, holding their breaths.
Somehow, Kragkhen overrode Fred's command and returned.  Seeing that the vote hadn't finished yet, he gave a low, rumbling growl and said, "Think very carefully about your future, worm."
To Fred's surprise, the last member looked up suddenly, meeting the Dhasha's eyes.  "Admission," he said firmly, through a narrow stare.  "And may you rot in your own skins when they leave you."
Kragkhen roared and tore into the seating, throwing pieces of the chamber in all directions as he stormed down after Larry.  Daviin said some sharp commands in Jreet and both he and Kragkhen vanished.  This time, the Dhasha did not reappear.
Fred let out his breath and found himself grinning like an idiot.  "Congratulations, Larry Vigil, of Earth.  The Takki are hereby recognized as a sentient species of Congress."
#
"Kill me."
The words were so faint Kim wasn't sure she had heard it.  She opened her eyes and looked over at Sky.
The Minder had his knees to his chest and was shivering.
"Sky?  Are you all—"
"I almost killed them, Kim," Sky whispered, his eyes wide and staring.  "I almost killed them all."
"But you didn't," Kim said, grateful Sky had returned to his old self.  "See?  You're better."
"I'm not!" Sky shouted.  He turned to glare at her.  "I can still do it.  I still might.  I don't...care...about them."  He shuddered and closed his eyes.  "I don't care."
He didn't care?  What Minder didn't care?  She stared at him, feeling her worry tumble back over her like a shroud.  There was something wrong with Sky.
Kill me, Sky whispered into her mind.  Like you were going to.
"No!"  Shame filled the pit of her stomach, making her feel nauseated.  "Sky, that was just if you were crazy.  Just if—"
I am crazy.  Kim, kill me before I hurt someone else.
"No."
I can make you do it, Sky said.
"You can't," Kim retorted.  She pushed herself into her second consciousness, giving him no way to control her.
On the floor beside her, Sky shuddered and began rocking.
"Listen, Sky," Kim began.  "You were just in a bad situation.  You got angry.  Everyone gets angry once in a while.  Even a Minder."
Sky turned to bore into her with his deep blue eyes.  I don't care about them.  I don't care about anyone, anymore.  I don't want to live like this.
"Do you care about me?" Kim asked.
Sky looked away.
"You see?  You're fine.  You just need a few days to adjust—"
No.  Kim felt a stab of fear as she realized Sky was not talking about his need to adjust.
"You don't care about me?" Kim whispered.
I let you come with me out of principle, Sky said.  You're one of us.  You can help me make them all pay.
Kim's heart began thumping like a hammer in her chest.  "Do you hear yourself?  You're talking like you're a Huouyt."
Exactly.  They tried to turn me into an assassin.  And it worked.
Kim felt her gorge rise.  "No."
Yes.  Aliphei wants to get rid of the Grand Six.
"The what?"
The Representatives for the Jreet, the Dhasha, the Jahul, the Huouyt, the Ooreiki, and the Ueshi.  He thinks they have too much power.  He was going to use me to kill them quietly.  Untraceable.  Sky gave Kim a bitter smile and looked away.
"Sky?"
What?
"You're nothing like Rri'jan."
I am now.
#
"How was it missed?"
"We are not sure, chairman.  It simply appeared."
Fred snorted.  "Planets do not simply 'appear.'"
The Jahul freighter cringed.  "Well, it wasn't charted, so we figured we were the first ones to see it and we thought we could lay claim to—"
"Does anything live on it?" Fred interrupted.  "Does it sustain life?"
The Jahul began to look nervous.  "Well, yes, uh, but we don't really, I mean..."
"What?!" Fred barked.
"Takki," the Jahul said.  "It has several colonies of Takki."
"Just Takki?" Fred asked, lifting an eyebrow.
"Yes, but, uh, we were hoping that, since Takki aren't—"
"Takki now have a Representative in the Regency," Fred said, glaring down at the Jahul.  "Any Takki who wishes to claim citizenship may."
The Jahul looked offended.  "You're just going to let them have it?  Takki?"
"It appears they colonized it first," one of Fred's constituents pointed out.  "Besides, I don't see why not.  As you describe it, it's just a ball of rock.  Takki have no planet of their own, so why not give them this one?"
"Yes, but..."  Peering up at their stony faces, the Jahul raised its hands and bowed in complacence.  "Thank you, sirs."  Then he hurried away.
"Do I hear a consensus to give the Takki this new planet?" Fred asked.
"If you can call it that," one of the panel members snorted.  "It has no resources except water and air, no minerals, no organics.  Let them have it."
Fred watched a wave of agreement from the others and tried to contain his glee.
#
"Ruvmestin."  Fred stared at the paperwork.  "You're sure?  The Jahul told us there were no minerals on the planet.  He filed reports—"
"You think Jahul would be truthful about something like that?" Kaj'nol snorted.  "He probably wanted to mine it for himself."
"We've already given it to the Takki," Fred said stubbornly.  "They have the deed."
"Perhaps you do not understand the nature of our crisis, human, coming from a Class-Zero society that would not know what to do with ruvmestin even if you had the mental capacity to create the technology that uses it.  We are having major shortages on all three ruvmestin planets.  We can't afford to put the most valuable resource in the universe into the hands of a single race."
"They have the deed."
"Then Congress will pay them fair market value for their planet and buy it from them."
"Fair market value...with or without the ruvmestin?"
Kaj'nol glared at Fred.
"The point remains," Aliphei said, "The resource is quickly becoming scarce.  Congress has the authority to confiscate planets in times of need or war.  We will supply them with the fair market value without the metals, as ruvmestin is considered a communal resource anyway."  He finished his speech with finality, as if the matter were decided.
"No."
Every head in Congress turned to him.
"If you are going to take the Takki's planet from them, then I feel it is my duty as chairman to bring to light several other planets that have undergone similar situations, but whose owners were, in fact, never paid for the resources that were extracted.  The Ayhi, for instance.  They have won the right to colonize seventy-five unclaimed planets.  Of those, they have colonies on just nine."
"What does that have to do with—"
"If you take the planet from the Takki, I will have to start investigating the causes behind these discrepancies," Fred said.  "First and foremost, I will begin by making the Huouyt pay recompense for the fifty-two planets they have colonized and exploited, but to which they have no deed.  After all the wrongdoings have been repaid, I will transfer the deeds so that they may begin paying their fair share of taxes to Congress.  Either that, or I will simply purge all non-native species from the planet so that the planets' owners may use what is rightfully theirs."
Kaj'nol's electric-blue eyes were icy orbs of fury.  "You cannot do that."
"Would you like to test that theory, Huouyt?" Fred said.
The Huouyt looked like he was about to argue, so Fred added, "Every species of the Grand Six is guilty of commandeering planets that do not belong to them, planets that rightfully belong to less aggressive species who want no quarrel.  Turns out, I have a soft spot for the underdog, and I'll give you the quarrel.  Ruvmestin is a small price to pay, if you consider the hundreds of planetary economies that will collapse when I give the order to relocate their illegal inhabitants to a planet that does belong to them."
Kaj'nol stared at him in wordless fury, and even Verbhan looked ruffled.
"Very well," Aliphei said slowly, "Since it is clear you have taken the Takki's side in this.  What would you suggest, Mullich?"
"They keep their planet," Fred said simply.  "Make an agreement that benefits the both of you.  The Takki deserve that much, after everything Congress has done to them over the millennia.  Consider it reparations for past sins."
From across the Regency, Fred heard Kragkhen make a snarl of rage and leave the Regency.
"All this time," Fred said, "The Takki were products of their situation.  Never once did Congress try to liberate them.  How many millions of years went by while the Takki languished under our noses, considered incapable of sentience?"
Aliphei stared at Fred until the Regency hung in dead silence.
"Is there a member of this body who still wishes to take the Takki planet?" Aliphei asked softly.
"It's our right," Kaj'nol said.  "Ruvmestin is labeled as a communal resource under Congressional law.  What Mullich proposes is extortion."
"A habit you're quite familiar with," Aliphei retorted.  "Anyone other than Kaj'nol?"
The Regency almost shuddered in its silence.
"Very well," Aliphei said, "The move for confiscation is dropped.  However, the Bajna warn me that we must begin trade immediately.  Representative Larry."
Larry sat up.  "Yes?"
"Alert your people that we will require immediate ruvmestin extraction to begin on your planet.  Congress will not confiscate your planet, but we do reserve the right to control your prices.  Anything above fair market value will be pressing our patience, understand, Takki?"
"Understood."
"Good."







CHAPTER 43: A New Sky
The planet where their unknowing pilot left them two weeks later was a large place, full of life.  Kim could feel the bustle of a big-city as they stepped off the shuttle to the surface and began meandering the streets.  Sky had not spoken to her since telling her they'd tried to turn him into an assassin and Kim was beginning to think perhaps he just wanted her to disappear.
Kim bit her lip as she watched him.  Sky showed no interest in his surroundings, even frowned at some of the aliens that passed by.
He's reading their thoughts, Kim thought, fearful.  And he doesn't like what he sees.
Suddenly, for no apparent reason, Sky stopped in the middle of the road.  This place makes me sick.  He scanned the crowds like an executioner looking for his next criminal.
"Then we should leave," Kim said, grabbing his arm.
No.  Sky's eyes unfocused and he stiffened.
"Sky?" Kim whispered, fearful.
"Come," Sky said, taking her hand.  "I want to show you something."  He pulled her through the streets, until they had entered an alley with buildings towering on either side.  There, standing against the outer walls of the buildings were rows of Takki.
Kim gasped.
The Takki had no eyes or scales.  They hung limply against the wall, their arms pinned above them by chains and manacles.  Yet they still lived.  She could see them breathing carefully, their faces in unmistakable pain. 
Sky shoved her toward the nearest Takki.  "Should a society that does this be allowed to continue?!" he snapped.
A Jahul peddler saw them and rushed forth, grinning.
"Well?"  Sky pushed her closer, until she was almost nose-to-nose to the Takki.  Blue blood still dripped from patches of his skin where the creature had had its scales ripped off.  The Takki felt her presence and shivered, but did not flinch away.
"You like that one, do you?" the peddler said, beaming.  "Prime stock, that.  Fleshy.  Incredibly tender."
Do you know how they make them tender, Kim? Sky demanded, his mind vicious.
"Don't say it," Kim whispered, pulling away from the Takki.  Tears were blurring her eyes.  She could imagine Larry...
They put them in a box, shaped like a casket.  They can't sit up, can't roll over, can't raise their arms, can only lay there.  Twice a day, the farmer opens a hatch in the box over their heads and feeds them.
"Please," Kim whispered.
That's why they aren't standing, Kim.  They can't.  Their legs won't hold them.  But the peddlers want everyone to be able to get a good look at their wares, so they tie them up like that.
"I thought you said you didn't care!" Kim cried, rounding on him.
Sky blinked.
"Why are you here, telling me this, if you don't care, Sky?" she demanded.
The Minder glanced from the Takki to the Jahul and back at her.  Then, explosively, he burst into tears.  His shoulders slumped and he slid to the ground and began rocking again, sobbing. 
The Jahul watched him curiously a moment before giving them both a disgusted look.  "You're not here to buy."  He immediately turned and wandered off.
Kim knelt beside the Minder and tentatively took his hand.  "Sky?"  She touched his sweaty brow, tracing the bony curve of his skull.  Too thin, she thought, fighting down terror.  They starved him.
The Minder ignored her.
"Sky, please tell me what I can do to help."  Her fingers were trembling as they cradled his head.
Sky opened his eyes, his brilliant blue gaze made all the more stunning through tears.
"Please," Kim whispered.
Finally, the Minder said, Food.
It gave Kim a shred of hope.  Until that point, ever since leaving Koliinaat, Sky had simply used her to make himself whatever he wanted, without asking.
"Okay," she said, heart leaping at the fact he had asked.  She glanced around her, looking for a suitable place to go.  She still couldn't read Congie, and without Sky, she was stranded.  "Where's a safe place?"  She was almost ready to change the cobbles at her feet with the entire world watching, so desperate was she to fill Sky's request.
Sky shook his head and started crying again.
The Jahul flesh-trader returned, irritation filling his froglike face.  "You're scaring my clients.  Get out if you're not going to buy."
"Leave us alone!" Kim snapped, glaring at the peddler, making his eyes widen and the little sivvet orifices twitch.  She bent down and helped Sky to his feet.  "Where's a safe place?" she whispered into his ear.  "Where can we go so you can rest?"
Shuddering, Sky shook his head.  His intent was clear—he would never rest.  Not on this planet.  Not with so many minds pushing at him, all the time.
Still, seeing the way his hands were trembling like an alcoholic too long without his favorite poison, Kim knew she had to do something. 
She tugged Sky out of the alley and into the street.  She found a bench—much lower than the benches on Earth—and pulled him down onto it.  She gently forced him to lay down and sat above his shoulders, taking his head in her lap.
"You're going to be okay," she told him, stroking hair away from his sweat-soaked face.  Sky rolled onto his side and balled up, knees to chest.  He wasn't as bony as he had been coming out of the Sanctuary, but he still did not look healthy.  Like a man with a fever, he was shivering all over, sweat pulsing from within him in waves.
Watching him, Kim wished she had the ability to put him to sleep, as he had done for her in the past.  Sleep, she knew, would help.
No, Sky said, opening his eyes to look up at her.  Sleep is worse.  Then the nightmares come.
Kim did not know what to say to that.  She stared down at this stranger that had been her friend and felt an overpowering wave of hatred for Congress.  She wanted it to burn.  All of it.  Right down to the last particle.
Sky closed his eyes and shuddered.  Passing aliens gave them odd looks as they walked by, some even stopping to stare, looking as if they wanted to ask if Sky was feeling all right, but moved on before they could.  Kim wondered if Sky was dissuading them or if they simply changed their minds, deciding that they didn't want to get too close to an exotic species they knew nothing about.
"Is there anything I can do?" Kim asked as Sky continued to shudder.  "Are you cold?"  Sky laughed then, laughed so hard that it made prickles of goosebumps stick out on her arms and neck.
For the first time on their trip, Kim knew Sky was no longer capable of making their decisions for them.  As gently as she could, she moved out from underneath him and stood from the bench, trying to come up with a plan.  Still in a fetal position, Sky continued to cackle.  She watched him, quivering, shaking, laughing, and knew she was watching the disintegration Rri'jan had warned her about—the old psyche battling with the one Aliphei had implanted in him.
You should kill me, Kim, Sky whispered to her in her mind, a miserable wisp compared to the mountainous presence it had always been.
Instantly, as had become her habit whenever he talked about suicide, Kim pushed herself deep into her second consciousness, where he couldn't touch her.
On the bench, Sky's laughs devolved into sobs.
Kim straightened and gave him a cold look.  "Sky, take us somewhere you can sleep."  She hated giving him an order, not knowing how he would handle it, but she could not get them anywhere safe on her own.  She could not read minds, couldn't read Congie.  Without Sky, she was stranded here.
Sky opened his eyes and peered at her.  In her second consciousness, the liquid upon the surface of the eyeballs flushed and swished as he focused on her through tears.
"You took care of me since you found me in that mudpit," Kim said.  "Now it's my turn to take care of you."
The Minder's eyes flickered down to metal digits protruding where her fingers should have been.  "I didn't take care of you when I should have."  His eyes flickered down and away.
"No!" Kim snapped, squatting down beside the bench so she could be at eye-level.  "If you had, Sky, then you wouldn't be the Sky that I love.  I miss that Sky.  Bring him back to me, okay?"
He lifted his eyes to meet hers, tenderness rising back from the depths.  "Love?"
Seeing that brief moment of gentleness return, Kim felt a wash of emotion burst from her in a wave; every fear for him that she'd suppressed while she was out alone with the aliens, every worry for someone taking advantage of his naivete, every horrifying nightmare where the Huouyt found him again and took his other eye—all of it came out in a rush that brought a sob of her own that he hadn't even noticed.  "Yes, damn it," she whispered.  "I thought you would've known that, you turd.  Why do you think I went to the stars with you?"
His face darkened again.  "Because I made them kidnap you." He was still shaking, sweating, whimpering.
Which was true.  And now, looking at him, realizing that even her bad dreams on Syuri's ship hadn't held a candle to the terrifying reality that had come to pass for her friend, Kim knew, without a doubt, she needed to take control of the situation or a lot of people would die.  "Get up," she said. 
"Don't want to," Sky managed, his too-thin body shivering.  "I want to kill them all for what they've done."  With his eyes closed, she couldn't tell if that's exactly what he was doing.
Kim kicked the bench under him, making him jerk.  "Yeah, I know you do, and I don't care," Kim said, knowing she had to distract him, right now.  "Get the fuck off that bench or I'm going to melt it out from underneath you."
Sky opened his eyes, and she felt his mountainous presence solidify around her in a threat.
Still solidly in her second conscious, she gave the Minder a challenging stare.  "What you gonna do, skinny boy?  Tickle me?"
I can't control your second consciousness, but I can still destroy your mind, he warned.
"Then do it, and stop whining," Kim snapped.  "You're acting like a spoiled-rotten, Black-City-bred Originer."
Sky glared, and for a moment, she thought he would do exactly as he said.  Then, sniffing, he sat up, still squinting up at her.  I can't live like this.  I feel them all around me.  They feel dirty.  Like vermin.  Like disgusting, nasty—
"Then focus on me," Kim said, grabbing his bony shoulder.  "Use me like you did on the Ooreiki ship.  Dig in my mind.  Surround yourself with my thoughts.  Whatever you need to do.  Just stop being an asshole.  You're a better person than that."
Sky glanced down at his scrawny knees, then back up at her.  You really believe that?  He sounded stunned.
"Of course I do."
He hesitated.  And...you still want me around?  Even after I hurt people?
"Of course I want you around!" Kim cried.  "Are you stupid, Sky?  You're my friend.  Literally my best friend."
Sky swallowed and wiped tears from a cheek with a skinny arm.  "When I was a child, no one wanted me around."  Looking up at her timidly, he continued, "And it got worse as I grew older.  The Council didn't like me.  I did whatever I wanted.  Didn't follow the vote."
Because he didn't have to.  Because he was stronger than them.  "I understand," Kim said.  "You can do things nobody else can do."
"Everyone's always been scared of me."  The welling of grief she saw within him was almost too much.  He pulled his knees up to his chest, resting his heels on the bench.
"Well, I'm not," Kim said.
He hesitated and squinted at her.  "You spent most of the last week being scared of me."
She decided it was time to change the subject and confess what she had been up to the last couple months.  "You think you're bad?  I killed my own brother, Sky.  Made a copy of him and then killed the original just to make a point.  The copy doesn't even know he's the copy."
Sky blinked at her, looking genuinely startled.  You...?
"And I threatened an assassin and took his arm and his zora.  The only reason I didn't kill him was because you had this really neat idea of getting Earth freed from Congress without a single death.  So I worked with him, instead."
You hated that idea, Sky muttered, looking down at his slender hands.
"It takes a lot of balls to go against the Black City and try to change the world," Kim said.  "You're my hero, Sky.  You're everything I wished I could be."
Sky lifted his head again sharply.  This time, when the mountain crushed her, she almost passed out.  You thought I was weak.  You thought I should be harsher.  You thought—
"I was wrong," Kim retorted.  "Read my mind, you dumbass.  I was wrong, and this is me apologizing."
Sky continued to crush her mind as he filtered through her thoughts.  Then, seemingly finding what he sought, he retreated and glanced back down at his knees.  You thought about me every day we were apart, he finally managed.  You missed me.
"Of course I fucking missed you!" Kim cried.  "You're my friend, Sky."
He glanced up at her with the first real hint of interest she'd seen since he'd stepped out of the brainwashing chamber.  And maybe...something more?
Seeing the gentleness once more replacing the darkness in his eyes, Kim felt her heart suddenly hammer.  She froze.  "Do you...?"
His eyes were filled with anguish.  One of the ways I managed to avoid the machine they used to brainwash me was I spent a lot of time thinking about how it would be between us, for the first time.  I've...loved...you from the moment I found your mind struggling in the Maker's Guild, one of the most powerful Makers in the world, but convinced you needed to wave your arms and hoot like a deranged monkey to make matter shift.  It was adorable.
Kim narrowed her eyes, and for the first time, the slightest hint of a smile appeared on the Minder's lips.
But it quickly faded.  I thought loving you was a flaw, though.  Minders should love everyone equally—it's what Minders do.  But I wanted you more than any man or woman I'd ever slept with—
"Wait.  You've slept with men?" Kim interrupted, suddenly having to know this particular quirk of her friend's personality.
Of course.  They have feelings, too.  As if it were totally natural.  Suddenly, Kim wondered if it wasn't the blacksmith and his wife that had shared his bed, not just the woman...
When I finally met you in person, you were everything I'd hoped for, Sky went on solemnly.  I wanted to devote myself to You, and only You.  Of any mind I'd ever touched, yours was closest to my own.  You saw me as a man, not a Minder...the one thing no one else on Earth could ever do, once they saw my ears and silver hair. You treated me like an equal, even when you knew I could kill you with a thought.  I loved you...but I was too much of a coward to say it.  I thought you'd try to get me to give up saving the Congies.
"That's what I like about you," Kim blurted.
When Sky raised a single platinum brow at her, she flushed.
"Well, I mean, there might be a couple other things, too."
Sky held her gaze, peering into her soul.  Finally, just when Kim was about to break contact, he said, You wanna help me fight the darkness?
"Absolutely," Kim said.  "Anything."
You still wanna find out what it's like to have sex with a Minder?
Kim flushed and her heart started to pound.  "I might...be convinced..."
If it's...as good...as I imagined, I might be able to use it to refocus.  Drive away the darkness.
"Oh, no pressure or anything," Kim laughed, already nervous.
Don't worry.  You won't be doing anything.  It'll be all me. 
Won't be doing anything...  She narrowed her eyes.  "You know, even skinny and eyes puffy from crying, you are one arrogant son of a bitch."
I had plenty of time to plan this, he said plaintively.  I know you have fear from past encounters, so I'll go slow.  I promise you it'll be nothing like what's happened to you in the past.  You'll enjoy yourself, I swear it.
She felt herself reddening even more.  "How can you promise that?"
He started to grin sheepishly.  I've had a lot of practice.
"With men."
Some men, he admitted.  Like your brother.
Kim froze and her mouth fell open.  "You have...got...to be kidding me."
Mistaking her dumbfounded stare for a desire to know more, Sky said, He liked to be on top.  He had a thing about—
"No!" Kim cried, shoving his shoulder.  "You keep that shit to yourself!  Definitely don't wanna hear about my brother's sexual preferences, thank you."
Instead of her words throwing him back into shame and self-loathing, however, the Minder's grin widened.  "Wanna try tonight?"
Kim's heart started to hammer uncontrollably and she couldn't find the words to speak.  It was everything she had wanted—and yet it terrified her at the same time.  What if it wasn't as good as she'd heard?  What if she disgusted him or screwed up somehow?
I think as long as you don't wave your arms and hoot like a deranged monkey, we'll be fine.  The mischievous grin was her first real glimpse of the old Sky that she had seen since Koliinaat, and Kim had to smile back, despite herself.
"Let's get you somewhere to sleep and eat and then we can talk."
Talk?  He sounded put out.  If you're not interested, maybe I should just go back to thinking about how they put me in a machine and—
"Yes, goddamn it!" Kim cried.  "Yes."
If anything, the twinkle in his blue eyes increased.  "Then say it."
"Say wha—"  Kim choked, remembering.  Feeling herself flush crimson, she said, "Girls don't ask.  Guys ask."
Without missing a beat, Sky stood, took her cheeks in his hands, leaned down to touch foreheads with her, and said, Kim Hovland, will you bed me and no one else?
Ever since Koliinaat, she had become so used to him simply wrenching hold of her mind and using it whenever he felt necessary, she never thought he would ask for anything again.
"Yes," she said, looking up at him breathlessly.
He peered at her, his brilliant blue gaze made even more stark with his recent tears.  Because you want to, not because you're worried about what I'll do if you refuse?  His mental velocity had quieted some, until his voice almost sounded as calm and mountainous as when she'd first met him.  He felt so close, his warmth disorienting.
"I want to," she whispered, feeling like her very soul was exposed for him to see.
A huge, slow grin spread over his face.  Okay.  He turned to survey the city around them, then gestured.  There's an inn this way.
#
The room Sky found for them was built for something smaller than them, the ceiling and bed much lower than normal, almost brushing the Minder's platinum blond hair.
Food first, Sky said, gesturing to the tiny table with the alien utensils.  Then we can play.  Again, he hadn't simply wrenched control from her and made the food himself.  He sat down on the cramped little trapezoid-shaped bed and waited.
Then we can play.  The way Sky had said it made Kim blush like a schoolchild.  To hide her embarrassment, Kim found the water faucet and pushed it on.  She collected the result in the basin and sank her second consciousness into the flowing, moving, swirling mass.  Reluctantly, she gave it a new form.
I was kind of hoping for lasagna, Sky said, wincing as she brought forth their meals.
"Tough," Kim said, handing him the plate of steak, broccoli, mashed potatoes and gravy.  "I'm tired of eating lasagna."  They'd had nothing but lasagna since stepping off Koliinaat.
Sky glanced up at her sharply, and she froze.  Both of them knew Sky could have lasagna if he wanted it.
And he almost did it, too.  She saw the thought cross his mind.  Then the Minder heaved a huge sigh and dropped his gaze back to his meal.  He pinched a piece of broccoli between thumb and forefinger and wrinkled his nose as he sniffed it.  Then, like a petulant child, he ate it, grimacing.
Kim let out the breath she'd been holding.
"So," she said, dropping a fork and knife into his lap.  She sat down on the bed beside him with her plate and distractedly started playing with her mashed potatoes.  She'd heard having sex with a Minder was the closest thing someone could get to absolute bliss.  She'd heard the good ones did something with thoughts, some sort of feedback loop that bathed their partner in sensation and emotion.  "Will you, uh..."  She turned red, unable to finish her thought.
I can read your mind, Kim.  Sky hadn't even turned to look at her.  The answer is yes.
Blushing furiously, she began sawing at her steak.
When he finished eating, Sky set his plate on the floor and stretched out on the bed beside her.  Nervously, Kim followed suit.  After long moments of no movement, she whispered, "What now?"
The Minder didn't answer her.
Kim sat up and looked at him.
Sky was asleep.  Thirty seconds and he was already drooling on the blanket, a little smile on his face.
A sharp pang of disgruntlement hit her, followed by a wave of relief that he was finally resting peacefully.  Afraid to wake him, yet not sleepy, Kim took the moment to trace the contours of his body with her second consciousness, winding her way through the gleaming forest of tiny blonde hairs on his arms and belly, finding all the ragged pink mountains of scars, the curves of his lean muscles, the twitching of his blue eyes under the lids.  Then curiosity got the better of her.  She sank lower, examining that secret part that had so baffled her in life.  Its skin and muscles were a different texture than the rest of his body, the glittering, moving cells arranged in different patterns, the hairs a different width and shape.
When she had traced it to her satisfaction, she gingerly rested her arm over his chest and closed her eyes and slept.
Kim awoke to Sky straddling her, tickling her ribs.  She screamed and tried to throw him off, but he was heavier than her and remained firmly in place.  Gasping, thrashing, she didn't realize he was naked until he finally relented to let her breathe.
"Sky," she gasped between breaths, startled at his nakedness.  "What...?" 
Should've given me the lasagna, Sky said, tickling her again.
Kim shrieked and clawed at the covers, trying to get purchase, unable to breathe through the laughter bubbling up from her chest.  "Skyyyyy," she wailed.  "Please!"  He ignored her pleas.  She managed to get purchase on the wall and reflexively kicked them both off of the bed, onto the floor.  Somehow, the Minder found a way to stay atop her, pinning her face-down on the used plates as he started tickling her feet.
"Nooooo," Kim screamed, pounding her fists into the floor, laughing so hard she couldn't think. 
"Say Mercy," Sky ordered, still tickling.
"Meeeeeercy Sky, please!"
He switched to her other foot.
"Sky, I'm gonna pee myself!"
"Serves you right for peeking."
"Peeking?" Kim managed, thrashing.  Then, with a wave of dread, she knew.  The night before.  When she thought he'd been asleep.  "No, Sky, I'm sorry!" she cried.
"How sorry?" he asked.  Though she couldn't see his face, she could hear the laughter in his voice.  He was enjoying this.
"I'll do anything!" she screamed.
"Okay."  He relented suddenly and moved off of her, red-faced and breathing hard.  Squatting naked beside her, there was mischievous delight in his eyes when he said, "Strip."
Immediately, Kim remembered the last Minder who had tried to get in her pants.  Then, after that, her last experience, how Julian had plied her with gifts and notes and promises...and after a couple minutes of grunting, had simply gotten dressed and walked away afterwards, never to be seen again.  Kim felt a pang of instinctual fear before a mountain forcefully shoved it away.
Not this time, Sky said, touching her face.  This time, it's with me.
Hearing him say it so matter-of-factly, Kim felt something warm begin to build in her heart, and she knew the feeling wasn't coming from the Minder.  "Okay," she whispered.  She hesitated.  "So...what...are you...?"
This.  Love and peace suddenly flooded through her, leaving her chest feeling so warm and fuzzy she felt it unnecessary to breathe.  Heartbeat by heartbeat, the loving feeling intensified to the point where she could only stare into Sky's eyes in awe.
"What are you doing to me?" she whispered.
Doing what you asked me to do, Sky said.  Now are you going to strip or do I need to tickle you again?
Kim held his gaze for long moments, her mind awash with the nagging fear she'd had ever since Julian had used and abandoned her, ever since her father found out she had lost her virginity to a stranger and she'd been forced to wait a month to find out if she was going to be a single mother.
Trust me, Kim.  Sky's words were like a tender caress upon her soul, easing the hurt from long ago.
And, in that moment, she trusted him.  She felt it deep in her chest, like a bond suddenly realized between them.  Ever since that night on the ship, ever since he had cradled her consciousness in his body to save her sanity, cradled her despite knowing a single accidental thought could have killed him, ever since she had offered up her mind and all of its horrors in order to return the kindness...  Ever since then, she had trusted him.
She pulled her shirt over her head and kicked off her pants, her heart thudding like a blacksmith's hammer in her head.
Sky kissed her cheek as he lifted her from the floor and settled her into the bed.  Can I show you something?
The rush of love was overwhelming.  Kim felt herself drifting in bliss, awed by every moment, every breath.  Of course, Sky.
Sky smiled, and immediately she felt an expanding in her mind, like she had suddenly grown large enough to fill the room.  As she was trying to make sense of this, Sky traced his fingers across her shoulder.  Suddenly, Kim felt the same sensations in her own fingertips, an exquisite tingling that spread into her palm.  With them, came feelings of wonder, of anticipation, of love.
"What is that?" she asked, staring down at her hand.
I'm letting you feel what I feel.  He moved downward, along her collarbone.
Awash in the warmth of the feelings she was experiencing, Kim closed her eyes.  When his hand moved further downward, Kim trembled with the pleasure of it. 
Above her, she heard Sky gasp.
"You always feel that?" she whispered, so enthralled by the combined feeling of his fingers upon her skin and her skin upon his fingers, her thoughts and his thoughts twining as one, that it was hard to think of him being separate people. 
I usually don't let myself go this deep.  His thought was like a breath on the back of her neck, warming her thoughts, blanketing her.  When she looked, Sky's eyes were half-shut as if in trance.  It can be...absorbing. 
And it was.  She could feel her own heartbeat, every tiny sensation magnified back at her a thousand times.  She could feel his thoughts, his emotions, his breathing, his pulse, his earnest desire.
It was almost as if she were standing in a house of mirrors, each emotion and sensation amplified over and over in her mind, becoming so powerful that even the slightest touch could leave them both awed and reeling with pleasure.
Unable to help herself, Kim reached up and touched the little scar upon his chest.  Sky closed his eyes all the way and smiled.  The pleasure she received from that tiny little gesture brought tears to her eyes.
They felt each other, both body and mind, and savored the pleasure of each others' caresses until they were simply too tired to move.
When it was over, Kim stared at the ceiling, feeling like her heart was going to pound right out of her chest.  She was glad it was over...and yet at the same time had wanted it never to end.  She'd never felt so many wonderful emotions and thoughts at once, and her mind had strained to contain it all.  Even now, after Sky had returned her to her own individual senses, just looking in the Minder's eyes left her world reeling.
Is he really mine? she thought.
"As long as you want me," the Minder murmured against her sweaty belly.
Kim knew he had said it aloud for her, because it was harder for him to use his vocal cords than his brain, and because it meant more to her that way.  Tears of gratitude came to her eyes as she watched him, resting.
It was, she knew, possible she was pregnant.  They'd been so caught up in the moment that they had made no efforts to avoid it.  And, somehow, looking into Sky's eyes, that didn't bother her at all...
Sky propped himself up on his elbows, facing her.  The loving feelings intensified as he looked at her—it was the one thing he hadn't shut off, and it was the one thing she hoped he never would.  Can I show you something else? 
"More?"  Kim gasped, sitting up on her elbows.  "Sky, you just about killed me last time."
But instead of laughing, Sky's face was anxious.  It's something different.  Something I'd like to show you.  I've never done it before, but...I think it would help.
"Help how?"
Help me...cope.  Kim received a sudden image of being strapped to a table, images of death pounding at her senses.  She shuddered and closed her eyes. 
"Yes," she whispered.  She would do anything to help him with that.
Sky took her hand and squeezed it.
Images began to follow with the flow of love.  An infant, his head shoved into a creek by his mother's hand.  A woman dead, her hand trailing in the rushing water, a baby struggling in the damp sand.  A toddler, abandoned by his grandparents in the mountains.  A goatherd finding him, feeding him, yet unable to stop his shaking.  A little boy, sobbing under the strain of the voices in the village over the hill.  The same pointed-eared blond boy standing, blood flowing from a broken nose, hurt and rage overwhelming him.  A different boy, slumping to the ground, boot still bloody where he'd been kicking the blond child in the face.  A village that hated him, their thoughts dark behind suspicious, angry eyes.  Stones flying through the air, hitting skin and bone.  Silence, no sound but the mountain wind as it whistled through the slate and moss roofs of the huts.  A woman, frowning at him, unable to end his life, but wanting to.  A man, sitting on a rock, holding a knife to his own chest.  A girl, wallowing in a mudhole, feeling sorry for herself.  A murderer, pushing his knife into his eye. 
Understanding spread outward as Kim realized what she was seeing.
She was seeing Sky.
"You weren't born in the Origin?" she managed.
"Far from it," Sky said, his blue eyes intense with pain.  "Do you still like what you see?"
He killed his mother...his whole village.  On a pang of empathy, she reached out and stroked his cheek.  "Always."
His relief was so powerful it emanated off the Minder, flooding her very core.  He pulled her forward, into his embrace.  "I was so afraid," he whispered against her neck.  "I've never shown anyone that.  Not even Blue Rose knew about my mother.  I was so afraid you'd hate me."
"No," Kim said.  She touched his back and held him.
"That's why I came out here," Sky said.  "To find Forgotten.  I couldn't stand killing again.  That's why I need him."
"Forgotten is dead," Kim said.  She had been afraid to tell him earlier, afraid of what he would do.
Sky pulled back.  For a moment, the telepath only stared at her.  Then Sky frowned.  "No he's not."







CHAPTER 44: A Shell Game
Gha'Salao?  Are you sure this is the right planet?
Kim wished she could remember.  They had hitched a ride with another trade ship, both the captain and the crew completely oblivious to their presence.  Kim worried the whole way that she was making a mistake. There had been so many planets to choose from, and so many that had similar names.  She wasn't even sure she remembered the correct name in the first place, so she had spent the days in a constant agony of uncertainty.
That, and she was distracted, because just that morning, Sky had informed her that she carried his child, and she hadn't been able to eat or drink anything since.  It was both utterly exciting and totally terrifying at the same time.  Exciting, because she bring more of Sky into the world.  Terrifying, because Sky had killed his—
The mountain of Sky's mind interrupted her thought.  That won't happen, he said firmly.  I'll be here.  He gave her hand a comforting squeeze.
Kim swallowed and nodded.  Squinting down at the planet, though, she still couldn't decide if they were at the right one.  "I'm not sure."  Gha'Salao sounded like what she remembered, but she'd also found a Gha'Shalee and a Gha'Shaalo in the universal registry.  Worse, all three had had cities named Sh'ai.
Well, time to go find Kvebi.  Sky led her out into the open outside the shuttle bay, amidst the press of alien travelers.  Kim balked, despite herself.  Above, the sky was a blinding blue, the sun a sharper white than she could have imagined a year ago, baking in the heat of summer on Earth.  Even the gravity seemed to try to drag them down.
When Kim managed to collect herself, she glanced out at the workings of the city.  It left her breathless.  Sh'ai was bustling with ships moving from looming tower to looming tower.  It was bigger than anything she'd ever seen before, and she clung to Sky's shirt, feeling like the enormousness of it all was about to crush her.  "Sky, how many bars are in this city?"
Bars?  Sky seemed bemused.  At least three thousand.  In the time it had taken them to get to the planet, all of Sky's mental darkness from Koliinaat had faded, leaving her once more in the constant, mountainous presence of her mischievous, somewhat goofy friend.
A bolt of panic hit Kim suddenly.  "I don't like this, Sky.  Why can't you just find him again, like you did last time?" she asked.
Sky glanced back at her, a long-suffering look on his face.  He sighed deeply.  I already told you why.
"Because he's not thinking," Kim said.  "But he hasn't thought at all?!  This whole time?"
I haven't been looking for him the whole time.  That would be exhausting.  Sky returned his attention to the rush of aliens around him.  I think he's afraid of me, in case I went bad in the machine.  He wants to make sure you clear me first.  He picked a direction and dove into the bustle.  A path didn't necessarily clear for him, but he walked at full speed and didn't bump into anyone.
The same could not be said for Kim.  She had to all but cling to him to keep from getting run over by exotic wildlife.
Stupid Minders, Kim thought, jealous.  All she could do was make rocks.
"Then how do you know he's alive?" she demanded after another hour of walking, exasperated.
This was part of the plan.  Sky glanced back at her.  Rri'jan needs to think he's dead.  Him and many others.
"He died in my arms, Sky," Kim growled.  "Through Blue.  He was in pain."
Sky nodded distractedly.  You were one of the ones who needed to think he was dead.  Did he give you any instructions?
"No."  Then Kim frowned, her blood turned icy.  "Wait.  Rri'jan.  He said not to kill him."
Sky frowned, the darkness slipping back for a moment.  You shouldn't have given him back his zora.  That wasn't something we thought you'd do.
"It was what I promised," Kim said.
But he'll use it against us later.
The streets had thinned out since they'd left the ship port, sloping down, underground, making gigantic tunnels into the earth.  On either side, the buildings had begun to look much more decrepit in appearance, their inhabitants scruffier.  The Minder started down a narrow alleyway between two colossal underground housing units, taking them into the shadows and away from the noise and flurry of the tunneled streets.
"How could not killing Rri'jan have been part of the plan?" Kim demanded. 
Sky glanced at her, his blue eyes once more mischievous.  What did Rri'jan do, after you didn't kill him?
Kim's mouth fell open.  "He helped me get you out."
Sky winked at her, his face alight with the blue-white overhead lamps spaced along the tunnel ceiling.  It sent a thrill to her core to see him playful again, after the two hellacious weeks departing Koliinaat.  Kim smiled, despite herself.
"So why doesn't he talk to you now that you're free?" Kim asked, as they went deeper underground and the lights grew dimmer and less frequent. 
Don't know, Sky said.  Never told me that part.
"Why not?" Kim demanded.
Sky shrugged.  Probably because they were about to hook me up to the Peacemaker machines and he thought Aliphei might use me to find him.
Kim went cold.  "You mean he didn't tell you in case you woke up on their side."  She had a brief, terrifying worry that she'd been tricked, that the brainwashing had been effective, and she was currently leading a Congressional assassin to the Geuji.
Sky spun, grabbed her in an embrace, and kissed her.  As he did, he connected their minds and she felt both their bodies, both their sensations, both their pleasure.  He filled her with such love and compassion that she melted in his arms, and she felt him hardening in response. 
Kim was actually grateful when he breathlessly released her, because under the barrage of bliss, she wouldn't have been able to stop on her own.  He could have dragged her to the floor of the tunnel, right in the middle of the pedestrian pathway, and had his way with her and no one would have noticed, but after a week of enjoying his...attentions...she definitely didn't want to do it in public.  It got...loud.
Any other stupid questions? Sky demanded, breathless.
"No," she whispered.
He squeezed her ass and winked before letting her go.  "Good."  Then he went back to leading them down the alien corridor, whistling cheerfully.
Kim had to grin, then stumbled to catch up.
It took them about three hours of weaving through the sprawling, vermin-infested maze that was the city's underbelly before Sky stopped in an alley outside a nondescript gray building, looking up.
Here we are, Sky said, indicating an inconspicuous, rusty door set into the age-stained wall.  He eyed it like he would eye a particularly disgusting pile of Dhasha crap.  He sighed.
Kim glanced at the door, confused.  "What?"
Sky took a deep breath, then reached out and touched the door.
Immediately, she heard an electric crackle and he stiffened, then slumped to the floor.
"Sky?!" she screamed, dropping beside him.
The door flew open and a Jahul in camouflage brown and black work clothes appeared, shouting in a garbled alien language.  One of his six limbs was holding a gun at them.
Sky's head lolled back against her arm and he groaned.
"What did you do to him!" Kim screamed, first in English, then in Congie.  She gently lowered the Minder to the concrete and got to her feet, shifting into her second consciousness so she could put the weapon—and its owner—out of commission.  
Sky's feeble touch on her pantleg stopped her.  Don't hurt him.
"Serves it right for touching things that don't belong to it," the Jahul snarled, using the informal, all-inclusive 'it' rather than the formal 'It' that was courtesy in Congie when referring to sentient members of unfamiliar species.  "Now get off my doorstep before I decide to figure out whether your kind can grow back limbs."
Kim was about to curse the Jahul for his rudeness—and leave a lasting impression on his weaponry—when a glint of black around his wrist caught her eye.  She'd seen many other Jahul, wear jewelry, usually in the form of beaded bands, but they had always been beautiful and expensive; a show of wealth.  This looked like a piece of glossy black mold.  It even smelled funny.
She cut off her tirade, frowning.  "Did Forgotten give that to you?"
The Jahul flinched, then looked both ways down the alley.  In a low hiss, he said, "You're either a Peacemaker or an imbecile, throwing that name around here.  Get out!  Go back to wherever you came from, fools."  He began to retreat behind the door.
Kim glanced again at the bracelet and said, "It's a horrible thing to be Forgotten."
The metal door slammed in their faces.  Kim felt a rush of disappointment.
On the ground, Sky groaned and used her leg to pull himself to a seated position.  He held his head in a palm and said, I didn't think it would hurt that much.  Jahul must be able to tolerate it better.
"You knew it was electrified?" she cried.  "Why'd you touch it?"
It was the only way he would come out to talk to us.  If we'd bypassed the traps, he would have taken an escape route.
"You could've stopped him from running," Kim accused. 
He would've been scared, and I don't like doing that to people.
Fair enough.  She definitely preferred the passive Sky to the dangerous, controlling, violent Sky she had seen a couple weeks ago.  She was glad for the change.  Still, Kim muttered, "You need to stop putting yourself in danger, Sky."
He grinned at her and got to his feet.  "It was better this way.  At least I could steel myself.  If it had been you to touch it, your pain probably would have knocked me out cold."
She glanced at the door again.  "So was that Kvebi?"
Sky shrugged.  He's a Kvebi who happens to be a Jahul and works in a bar in a city of Sh'ai.  He does some shady dealings, mostly information smuggling, but if he's ever met Forgotten, I don't think he knows it.  There's four others like him in this city, but he seemed the most likely.  None of them have met Forgotten directly.
Once again, Kim was awed at what Sky could do.  She glanced at the door.  "So now what do we do?"
Wait.  Sky yawned and sat down against the wall across the street.  He'll come.  Curiosity will get the best of him.
Kim pushed herself into her second consciousness and examined the door.  It was alive with motion, much more so than the walls on either side.  He electrified it again, she thought, irritated.  She pushed through the door, feeling the rusting metal like jagged plates as she passed through them, remembering what Forgotten had told her.
"...I have a contact on a Huouyt planet called Gha'Salao.  He is a Jahul by the name of Kvebi who works as a bartender in the city of Sh'ai.  He is one of only three of my contacts Rri'jan has not yet killed, though I keep as far away from him as possible to prevent his death, as well.
On his person, Kvebi carries a device I disguised as a gift of jewelry.  With the proper code, the device can be activated and it will give you the name of a planet.  My ship will be orbiting that planet.  Kvebi neither knows the nature of the device, nor does he have the code.  That I will give to you.  Once you have the device, squeeze the blue stone set in its center and say, "It is a horrible thing to be Forgotten."
True to Sky's word, the Jahul eventually opened the rusty metal door and squinted out at them.  "What do you want?"
"Your bracelet," Kim said.  "A...um...friend told me about it.  It's...um...something very important to me."
The Jahul blinked beady black eyes at her as if she were insane.  Then, "What are you willing to pay for it?"
Kim pretended to reach into her pocket, and, collecting the air through the holes of her pants, made a ruvmestin bracelet of the same dimensions.  This, she pulled out and showed to him.
The Jahul's froglike mouth fell open and he lowered the tip of the gun.  "Is that what I think it is?"
"Yes," Kim said.  "Ruvme—"
"I'll take it!" the Jahul cried, ripping Forgotten's bracelet from his spindly wrist and holding it out.  He dropped it into her hand and gleefully took the ruvmestin bracelet instead.  "Hagra's jewels," Kvebi babbled.  "He said someone would want to pay me a massive sum for it, but I never thought..."  Then he swallowed hard and looked them over.  "Would you like to come in?"
Kim hesitated, wondering if the Jahul was going to try to drug them.
"I'm not a criminal," the Jahul snorted, his sivvet twitching, at the same time Sky said, He's very kind.  He only electrifies his door because this part of town is seedy.
"Sorry," Kim muttered.  "We've had a really difficult couple of rotations."
"Come on, then.  Before someone sees this thing."  Kvebi wrapped his amphibious fingers around the bracelet and waved them inside.
Kim and Sky ducked inside, then waited as the Jahul reset the door.  At Kim's wary glance, he said, "Don't worry, it's not for you."  Then he hastily led them to a back corner of the apartment and gestured for them to use the uncomfortable metal chairs that Jahul preferred.
"Sorry," Kvebi said, eying the chair.  "I don't have visitors very often, and those are easier to clean."
Knowing how...unpleasant...being a Jahul could be, Kim just nodded.
"So," the Jahul said, leaning towards them excitedly.  He lowered his voice to a whisper.  "Do you actually know him?"
"Who?" Kim asked, wary.
"The Forgotten," the Jahul whispered in obvious awe.  He was, Kim realized, a lot  younger than she had first thought.  Perhaps still a child.
"I've met him," Kim offered.
"Really?"  The Jahul enthusiastically inched closer from his cross-legged position on the floor.  "What's he like?"
Seeing such genuine excitement, Kim had to smile.  "Why do you want to know about Forgotten?"
The Jahul gestured at the bracelet.  "The guy who gave me that said that if I gave it to the right people afterwards, I could be like him."  He lowered his voice and looked around, as if seeking spies.  "An agent."
He's so innocent, Sky noted.  He feels everything.  Like that Jahul who escorted you on your voyage.
I think Forgotten trusts empaths, Kim noted.  Will he betray us if we show him?
Sky looked the Jahul over carefully, then, sounding surprised, said, No.  He'd rather bash his head into a rock until it explodes.
Looking at Sky with a raised brow, Kim thought, Well, Forgotten knows how to pick them...  Kim took the bracelet and set it carefully on the floor between them.
"It wasn't just a bracelet, was it?!" the kid cried.  "I thought there was something weird about that blue gem in the middle..."
Kim pressed the gem with a thumb and intoned, "It's a horrible thing to be Forgotten."
The band immediately unfurled into a four-legged stand, above which an image of a Congie word floated.  The same Congie word for the planet they now rested on.
That mother— Kim thought.
Well, at least he saved us another trek across the universe, Sky sighed.
"Gha'Salao?" Kvebi breathed.  "What's it mean?"
"It means," Kim muttered, closing the device, "he's been watching us since we got off the ship, and didn't even bother to say hello."
He wanted us to test the boy, Sky said.
"I'm not sure I understand," Kvebi said.  "Is it a code?"
Kim took a deep breath and let it out between her teeth.  "No.  We need to get back to the spaceport.  Do you know a good shuttle?"
Looking truly confused, Kvebi told them how to get to the local station, then reluctantly walked them back to the door.  "I'm sorry, I don't understand," he said.  "Did I fail?"
"Sky says you did fine," Kim said.  Then, with an official tone, she said, "You passed your trial.  The Forgotten will make contact again very soon."
One didn't need to be a Minder to feel the rush of glee as the Jahul did a little six-legged happy-dance in the alleyway.  "Oh, I can't wait!"
I wonder if it would change his mind if he knew that all of Forgotten's friends end up maimed, tortured, and pursued by Peacemakers? Kim asked, feeling slightly guilty.
Nope, Sky said.  He thinks Forgotten is a saint.  Saved his grandmother's ship when they were lost in deep space.  Took the whole family onboard and chatted with them on the trip back to dock.  He was still just an egg at that point, but he grew up hearing the story.
Kim and Sky said their goodbyes and began the journey back through the city to the place where Kvebi had told them they could find a decent shuttle.
Along the way, Sky had started to tease her again, tickling her mind with hints of pleasure when she wasn't paying attention, when a flatbed vehicle with a cargo of scaleless Takki pulled up in front of them and stopped, blocking their path.
A harsh Huouyt got out of the driver's seat of the vehicle and came around the side with a three-foot baton that sizzled with electricity.  "Out!" he snapped, ramming the rod into the side of one of the bleeding, bruised Takki.
These, unlike the ones from before, still had their eyes.
Kim, Sky whimpered, suddenly grabbing her by the arm, staring at the entry to the building as they filed inside, heads down.
"Let's just go around," Kim said, bile rising.
They're taking their eyes, Sky said, shuddering.  Kim!  I thought this was stopped.
"Larry got the Takki recognized, but these guys must not've heard about it," Kim managed.  Kim grabbed Sky and pulled him around the flatbed.  "Come on," she said.  "There's nothing we can—"
One of the Takki lunged out of the truck and grabbed Sky by both shoulders.  "Please help me," the purple lizard begged the Minder.  "Please!  I'll serve you, Master.  I'll be a good slave.  I'll do anything you want.  Please buy me.  Please don't let them take my sight."
Sky jerked at the Takki's touch, going completely rigid as he stared into the Takki's sapphire blue eyes.
A moment later, the Huouyt rammed the baton into the Takki's spine and it started to shriek. 
"We'll buy it!" Kim cried, watching Sky's shocked face starting to darken.  "We'll buy the—"
Another Huouyt came around the back of the vehicle and, holding a device in one hand, pushed a button.
The Takki's neck pulsed a sudden, bright blue, then its head came off.  The body jerked once, then started to twitch as blue blood began flowing out onto the stone cobbles.  The Huouyt with the device stooped and grabbed the head, tossing it carelessly back into the bed of the vehicle where other Takki were even then subduedly climbing down from the platform in single file, heading into the building.
"Did you have to kill it?" the Huouyt with the baton demanded.  "Now we've gotta sell the meat before it starts to stink."
"Saves us the expense of paying one more extractor," the second Huouyt said, making a careless motion.  Then, seemingly seeing Sky and Kim for the first time, he said, "The two of you looking to buy some meat?"  He gestured at the dead Takki.
Seeing the darkness returning to her friend's face as he met the Huouyt's gaze, Kim froze.  Sky... she whispered.  Please...







CHAPTER 45: A Minor Miscalculation
Sky had watched the Huouyt load the dead body of the Takki onto the vehicle, then wrested control of her second consciousness from her, that insane rage twisting his brow.
Kim grabbed his hand.  "Please don't.  You promised me."
Sky woodenly turned to look down at her, then slowly turned back to watch the Takki's limp limbs flop uselessly against the flatbed.  I want to kill them.  They're in there harvesting their eyes for paperweights and I want to kill them all.
Even then, the second Huouyt had climbed up onto the ship and was using a small, special-made knife to pry out the stone gems that were the Takki's lenses.
Kim tried again, unsuccessfully, to make Sky turn away as first the left, then the right popped out of the Takki's skull and the Huouyt collected them in a sack, then jumped back down off the platform, leaving gaping eye sockets staring back at them.
For long minutes, Sky wouldn't turn away from the dead Takki, but wouldn't release her second consciousness, either.  Inside, Kim heard a Huouyt shouting about malfunctioning equipment and several Takki started screaming.  "Sky..." she said warily.
"I'm going to free them, Kim."  Sky said as he fixated on the dead Takki, his gaze suddenly intense.
"Free who?"
"The Takki."
Kim felt a pang of fear.  The downtrodden, scaleless Takki had been in no way ready to defend themselves.  They could barely even stand on their own feet.  And, without scales, they were forever marked for what they were—food.
"Sky, I don't think that's such a good idea."
But Sky's eyes were closed, his body going still.  To her surprise, he released his grip on her mind.
"Sky, what are you doing?"  Kim watched, a bit relieved, a bit scared.  Didn't Sky realize he was only going to get the Takki killed?
Then, as if his legs had simply lost power, Sky collapsed.
Suddenly, like a steel drum colliding with her skull, Forgotten's voice pummeled the insides of her mind.  Stop him, Kim.
Kim's eyes flashed open.  "Forgotten?"
Stop him, Kim, Forgotten commanded, louder this time.  His breathing is too shallow.  His heart rate is slowing.  He's killing himself.
Kim frowned at Sky, then up at the clouds where she suspected the Geuji was watching the whole ordeal.  "Forgotten?  How did you get in my head?"
You need to stop him, Kim!  Don't let him go through with it!  There was panic in Forgotten's voice.  Kim felt her heart clasp with terror at the feel of it.  Forgotten did not panic.
"Sky," she whispered, shaking him.  "Sky, get up."
Sky's head lolled and he did not move.
"Sky!" she said, grabbing his head and yelling into his face.  The Minder did not even twitch.
"Is your friend sick?" the Huouyt with the bag of eyes demanded.  It made a disgusted face.  "If he's sick, get him away from my stock."
Rub your knuckles hard against his clavicle, Forgotten said.  Bring him back with the pain.
Kim did as she was told.  Once, twice.  And a third time.  Sky did not even twitch.
Twist his skin, hit him, kick him.  Wake him, Kim!
She got on her knees and pounded a fist into his chest.  Sky's breath caught, then resumed its normal course. 
Again!
Realizing Forgotten was serious, that her friend and lover was killing himself, panic set in.  "Sky, don't you dare do this!" Kim screamed.  "Don't you dare...I need you!"  She hit him again and again, staring at her friend through tears, grief overwhelming her.  She felt aliens stop to stare at her, but she could not look away from her friend.  She was sobbing now, tears rushing down her cheeks, her lungs raw and gasping.
Inside the building, there was some sort of confrontation, and something heavy was slammed against a wall.  Then the cargo of Takki all filed out of the building together—their eyes intact—trailed by a shouting Huouyt.  They didn't return to the transport, but instead spread out in a fan, calmly heading deeper into the city in all directions.
"Sky!" Kim shouted, grabbing him by the head and forcing his eyes open with her thumbs.  She recoiled when she saw how dilated and dull they were.
He's dead, Forgotten confirmed.
Forgotten's statement made Kim shudder and drop the Minder's head.  She curled into a ball, staring at Sky's limp body over her knees.
I'm so sorry.
She ignored him, rocking on a wave of agony.  She found herself unable to move from the pain, unable to even bring herself to pull his body away from the road.  He got me pregnant, she thought, fighting panic.  He got me pregnant and died...
You'll be cared for, Forgotten told her.  I'll keep you and your child safe from—
"I don't care about that!" Kim shrieked.
Forgotten flinched in her mind, almost as if she'd hit him.
"Why?" she whispered.
I...miscalculated.  I didn't think he'd need to...sacrifice himself.  He hid that from me.  Looking back, knowing how empathetic he is, I should've known.
Kim said nothing.  Hours passed, where all she could do was stare at her friend's body.
Kim... Forgotten said softly.  I need to send agents to retrieve the body.  His genetic code is very dangerous to leave lying around...
"You were alive all this time?" Kim asked, her words like ice, "Listening this whole time, Forgotten?"
It took him forever to respond.  Yes.
"Then why'd you let this happen?" she whispered.  "I thought you knew everything."
I was telling the truth when I said I couldn't judge your individual powers, Forgotten said, his voice a tired whisper in her mind.  Sky told me he could free the Takki.  I never considered that he knew it would kill him.
"You mean this was part of the plan?" Kim managed, her voice a hoarse whisper.  On Sky's face, an insect had already landed.
Sky's plan.  I wanted him to live.  He never told me it would kill him.  He just said he could do it when I asked.
"Am I hallucinating?" Kim whispered.  "I destroyed that thing you put in my head."
The thing I put in your head was a decoy, Kim.
"A...decoy?"  She felt a sob wrack her chest, felt herself begin to cry.  Her world had crumbled, and she didn't know who to trust anymore.
The true transmitter is a tiny mass of flesh with a trace of my own cellular structure inside of it, all affixed to tiny branching nano-tubules that can transmit Human brain signals as well as receive them.  The amplifier is buried within the golden kreenit's claw of your grandmother's necklace.  I had Syuri steal it as you slept.  He had no idea I altered it before giving it back.  It was the one thing I knew you would keep on your person.  Please forgive me for tampering with it.
Kim closed her eyes, the knowledge overwhelming her.  All this time, every move that she made...Forgotten could have spoken to her, could have said something, given her advice, helped, but he hadn't.  He'd allowed her to watch him die.
"Did you plan this?" Kim asked.  She felt a mingling of rage and terror in her mind.
No.  Forgotten sounded genuinely agonized.  Sky wasn't supposed to die.  He was supposed to free the Takki, but he wasn't supposed to die.  I knew you were in love with—  Forgotten stopped suddenly.  I wouldn't have allowed it to happen if I'd known.  I wouldn't have let him hurt you like that.
She shuddered as another sob wracked her body.  
I'm so sorry, the Geuji said again.
Kim nodded and took a deep breath.  It would be an easy thing to find the transmitter and destroy it.  But as she knelt there, staring at Sky's peaceful face, she said, "Can his plan still work?"
Yes.  All the pieces are in place.
"Then finish it," Kim said. 
But my bargain—
"Make a new one with me.  Finish this, Forgotten, and I'll make you whatever you want after it's over.  I'll do anything.  Just make sure he doesn't die for nothing, okay?"
Forgotten hesitated a moment, then said, I need you to go to Koliinaat.  A week from now, Fred is going to need your help with Sjilak, and you're the only one who can stop him...







CHAPTER 46: A Trith's Truth
"Fred."
Fred jumped, not expecting the voice at his hip.
Sjilak stood in a corner, watching him with his void-filled eyes.
"Where have you been?" Fred demanded.  "I have been looking everywhere for you."
"I've been hiding."
"You foresaw the Peacemaker raid?"
The little Trith inclined his head.
"Why didn't you tell me?!" Fred cried.  "Why didn't you tell Sky?"
"Sky knew.  Said he needed to allow the Peacemakers to capture him."
Fred digested this information.  Koliinaat was still abuzz from the Minder's escape approximately three weeks ago—he'd incapacitated the entire Sanctuary as he literally walked out the front door.  Aliphei was furious and immediately proposed a motion to destroy Earth...but Representative Daviin had summoned Jer'ait Ze'laa and asked before the entire Regency who had given the order to brainwash the telepath, rather than execute him as the Tribunal had decided.  Aliphei had left in a rage.  Several species allied with the Dhasha seconded the First Citizen's motion, but Fred's allies had forestalled them.  In short, the last three weeks since Sky's departure had been a bureaucratic clusterfuck.
"Why did you come back?" Fred asked the Trith, confused. "Sky and Forgotten made it no secret they didn't trust you.  They kept you imprisoned."
"I came to ask you to halt your plans," Sjilak said.  "Sky and Forgotten are both dead.  There's no point in continuing their plans.  Let Earth fight them off.  It's the natural course of the future.  Besides, we both know it will win."
Fred frowned.  "Sky escaped the Peacemakers."
"He died," Sjilak said.  "And yet the future is still uncertain.  Not only that, but it's getting worse, and I don't know why."  The Trith almost sounded...desperate.  "I like you, Mullich.  You and Kim were the only two who treated me decently, and I'd like to repay the favor, that's why I come to you now.  Please halt any further plans Forgotten set into motion.  I think that's what's destroying the future."
"Sky died," Mullich repeated, unable to fathom it.  He had known Forgotten was supposed to fake his own demise, partially to humiliate Rri'jan and partially to get Congress off his back for the final execution of his plan, but neither Sky nor Forgotten had spoken of Sky faking his death.  "How?"
"I am not here to debate the specifics, Mullich," Sjilak snapped. "I am here to ask you a favor."
Fred stared at the Trith, feeling none of the fear he would have felt a turn ago.  "What kind of favor?"
"Give up their plan."  The Trith was pleading with him, now.  "Both Sky and Forgotten are dead, but the pain merely increases."
If Sky was dead, it meant Fred and Larry were on their own.  The thought gave him a slight thrill.  We can still do it, he thought, watching the Trith.  He wouldn't be here to warn me if we couldn't still pull it off.
"I'm sorry," Fred said, straightening. "I can't stop."
Sjilak nodded slightly.  "Then I am also sorry, Fred."
Fred did not notice the assassin until he was standing behind the Trith, watching Fred with his merciless, electric-blue eyes.
#
Fred's room was empty when Kim arrived.
Kim made herself comfortable in a corner.  Forgotten had said nothing to her for several hours and she got the distinct feeling he was distracted.  The thought of the Geuji distracted left a cold feeling in Kim's stomach and she'd tried several times to initiate some sort of contact, to no avail.  Feeling alone and a little nervous, Kim sat down in a corner and tried to sleep.
When she woke, the room was just as empty as it had been when she left it.
"Watcher, where did Mullich go?"
The presence solidified again.  "Mullich went with Sjilak to Docking Bay 617G."
The thought of Mullich taking the Trith anywhere was strange to her.  Mullich was afraid of Sjilak.  He was even more afraid that somebody would see them together.
"What are they doing there?" she asked.
"Mullich is currently unconscious.  Sjilak is preparing to eject him into space."
Kim frowned.  Didn't space kill people?  Hadn't somebody told her that?
"Won't that kill him?" she asked.
"Dressed as he currently is, yes."
Kim's heart began to hammer at her insides.  "Sjilak is murdering him?"
"It would appear so."
"Stop him!"
"Representative Kragkhen ordered me not to get involved," the Watcher said.
"Why?!"
"Because he wants Rri'jan to kill Mullich, I'd assume."
Rri'jan.  The name made Kim's spine go rigid.  "Then take me to Mullich.  I'll stop him."
The Watcher hesitated, obviously trying to decide if that would violate his orders.  Finally, he said, "I'll transport you to the hall outside the bay.  You'll have to find it on your own.  My orders prevent me from assisting you further."  Then, Kim felt the brief moment of nothingness as her surroundings changed.
Then she was standing in a crowded metal tube, hundreds upon thousands of aliens wandering through it, some ambling, some slithering, some carrying everything from huge, stuffed-full packs to small, colorful alien pets.  She recognized every species she'd met so far and more. 
Kim stared at the traffic around her, feeling intensely vulnerable and nervous.
The aliens, however, did not stop and rip her apart.  They simply continued on their way, pushing around the gawking human.  It gave Kim the scrap of confidence she needed to take a breath and say, "Watcher, what's a Docking Bay?"
The Watcher said nothing.
"Forgotten?"
Forgotten said nothing.
Kim suddenly realized that, for the first time, she was alone, without Sky, without the Watcher, without Forgotten...without anyone to help her.
Then she thought, So what?
She was a Maker.  Fuck these aliens.
She closed her eyes and, entering her second consciousness, expanded.  Immediately, she felt the entire planet around her as one moving, living being.  There's another human on this planet, she thought, seeking him amidst the masses of alien bodies with her mind.  Find the other Human, find Mullich.
It was a thousand times easier than trying to isolate ruvmestin.  In moments, she had identified the unique substances of Fred's body, subdued and hibernating, lying on his side in a cold metal room.  She pulled her second consciousness back towards him, zooming in.
Representative Mullich lay entombed in a crate in a room packed with similar boxes.  He was breathing slowly, in a deep sleep.  Sjilak was moving from the room, into the hall outside.
Kim opened herself to the room, absorbing the feel of its substances, of the minute imperfections that made it different from the others.  Then she focused on Sjilak, drawing herself closer.  The creature's skin was warm, without any traces of dampness.  Underneath, its bones were thin and frail.  The skull was soft and rubbery, the veins inside straight, without branches.  Instead, they were studded with small, nodular sacs, the odd black cells constantly working, pulling nutrients from the Trith's blood and into the rest of its body.
The Trith continued with what it was doing, fiddling with some console inside the room, oblivious to her.
I could kill him, Kim thought.  She moved into his mind, deciding to do it.  Sky was dead, in part due to the Trith's betrayal.  There was no one to stop her.  She moved into the Trith's skull.
Along the way, she brushed the Trith's eyes.
Kim was thrown back into her body so hard she frightened the aliens passing her in the hall.  They stepped back, eyes wide and curious.
Ignoring them, Kim lunged to her feet and ran in the direction she had last seen Mullich.  Aliens everywhere jumped out of her way.
No, not that one, she thought, scanning the black alien squiggles over every door along the hall.  Her second consciousness was creeping back out, a startled mouse peeking back out of its hole after getting swatted by a cat.  All around her, the world fluctuated between flat, lusterless surfaces and rich, endless depth.
She found the proper hall by the feel of its substances, then dove down it, knowing she only had moments to reach Sjilak before he killed another of her friends.
The room she wanted was off another side-corridor, the door terminating at the end of a long, empty hall.  Thus, she was alone when she burst into the room to confront the Trith.
Except the Trith wasn't where she had last seen him.
Kim located Mullich's casket immediately, but the Trith was nowhere in the room.  She moved deeper inside, brushing the crates and corners with her mind.  "Sjilak?" she called.
Behind her, the door shut, making her start.  Turning, Kim rushed to the exit and tried to activate the exit, but all she received was a red light and a warning beep. The Trith's face appeared on the small screen set into the wall beside the door.  The image she saw with her eyes—but when she examined the screen with her second consciousness, she felt a pattern of excitement in the matter composing it, but couldn't see the face itself.
"I'm sorry, Kim," Sjilak intoned.  "With your friends dead, the future's finally coming back into focus.  Sky's plan must not succeed.  If the future could be anything else, I would not do this." The Trith moved away from the screen.
"Wait."  Kim tried not to sound desperate.  She pushed her consciousness out of her body and sought out the matter of the Trith.  She found him just outside the barricade, manipulating a group of buttons on the outside of the wall.  He was stoically maneuvering through the selections, overriding the Watcher's warnings...
He's trying to kill us.
Kim dove into the Trith's hand and felt the muscles compress as the fingers prepared to push another, final, button.
Water, she thought.
The Trith's hand dissolved away.  Brilliant droplets of pure water cascaded down the control pad and began spattering upon the floor.  Kim had to tear herself away from the beauty of it and re-focus on the Trith.  He was staring at his hand in shock.
Good, Kim thought, He didn't predict that.  She pulled herself back into her body and said, "I can do the same to your eyes."
On the other side of the wall, she felt the Trith's body remain motionless.  Then, slowly, he reached out again.  Kim tensed.
The door between them opened.
Sjilak stepped inside, his truncated wrist slowly dripping a gray-black solution.  He looked stunned.  "Just now.  You ruined it again.  Everything went dark."  She could feel him staring at her.  "You're one of them.  Like Sky and Forgotten and Dobbs.  A vortex."  The little alien stared at her like she had just committed mass murder.  "I thought there were only two.  I thought there could be only two.  After Dobbs died, for six hundred and sixty-six turns there was only Forgotten.  Then Sky.  I thought that was why I couldn't read you.  Because you were too close to him.  I saw you enter the cargo bay after I detained Rri'jan.  I saw myself send you both into space."
Then the Trith stilled suddenly, lowering its dripping stump in shock.  "That's it.  That's what's going on."
Still avoiding his eyes, Kim said, "What?"
"Joe Dobbs.  Earth.  He was a vortex.  That's why the future disappeared.  Earth is spawning them.  It's not just you and Sky.  It's everyone with Joe's blood.  His progeny—back when we found Joe, we couldn't predict whether he'd even have them.  We couldn't predict his progeny's progeny.  We thought his line would end with him because they were as dark to us as the future is now.  After Joe died, we thought Earth was so hard to read because it was still suffering from the aftereffects of Joe's presence.  But it wasn't.  None of them should have been alive.  He was breeding them!"
The Watcher's voice interrupted the Trith.  "Kim, at this juncture, I advise you very strongly to kill him."
The Trith stiffened and lowered his eyes to the ground.  He still had the bruises from Forgotten's rough handling months ago.  Kim felt a pang of pity and felt horrible for taking his hand from him.
"I know that your plan with Forgotten required no deaths, but this is one life you cannot afford to spare," the Watcher insisted.
"Why?" Kim whispered.
"You've just become his enemy."
The Trith shuddered.
"What else is new?" Kim asked, watching him.  "He already tried to kill me."
"Humans have become his enemy.  If you let him live, he will do everything in his power to destroy Earth and everyone on it.  Every Trith in the universe will be working against you."
"He's right," the Trith whispered.  "We can't let you survive."
Kim frowned at him.  "Why?"
"Because your very existence creates something a Trith finds more frightening than anything else—uncertainty."
Despite many times assuring herself she wanted to, Kim wasn't sure she could kill again.  She'd already taken his hand.  The Watcher wanted her to take his life, too?
"I could do it, if you wish.  Simply take Mullich and depart.  I will deal with him quietly."
Kim bit her lip.  "Can you put him somewhere safe, instead?  Somewhere he won't be any more trouble to us?"
"Involuntary detention of over ninety tics must be reviewed by a board."
"But you'd kill him?"
"I am given allowances for recognized enemies of Congress.  Technically, he qualifies."
He looked so small, so fragile.  So helpless. 
Kim took a deep breath, thinking of Sky.  "Let him go.  I don't want anyone else to die."







CHAPTER 47: Mass Movement
Kragkhen returned from his latest Regency meeting deeply irritated.  All of his Takki—every one of them, had simply gotten up and walked away from their duties the night before.  Already, he itched like the third Jreet hell and stank like a rotting Jahul, and yet he could find no volunteers to groom him.  Soon, he would have to break down and hire some Ooreiki to take their place—if they'd even do it.  He'd heard rumors that everyone on Koliinaat was enjoying watching his discomfort.
Damn them, he thought, his scales pressing tight against his chest.  He wished he could eat something!  But now, thanks to Mullich and that idiot Takki, he would lose his seat on the Tribunal and get banned from the Regency if he ate what was rightfully his.
Even now, Kragkhen wondered what his slaves were doing.  Had they boarded a ship for the Takki planet?  He wished one would show its face, just for a moment, so Kragkhen could slash it to pieces.
"Kragkhen."
Kragkhen whirled at the shadow in the corner of his room.  The Trith stood there, black eyes like puddles of the Void staring back at him.
"How long have you been standing there, slave?"
"I know what's happening," the Trith said.  Kragkhen could sense a shift in him, almost a trembling.
"Is Mullich dead yet?  You test my patience, slave.  You told me if I removed Forgotten and Sky from the picture, you would return to normal.  Then you demand I order Rri'jan to kill a Representative—if that is ever traced back to me, I'll be killed."
"I was wrong."  The Trith's voice was a tiny, fearful whisper. 
Kragkhen felt a pang of terror before he reined it in.  "Wrong about what?"
"I just never put it together until now."
"Put what together?"  Kragkhen snapped, wondering how the Trith would taste.
"Joe Dobbs was a vortex."
Kragkhen stiffened at the name of the famous Dhasha-killer, his claws automatically digging into the padded floor.  "You've said this before."
"As a vortex, he was completely unpredictable.  Him and everyone around him was a blurry spot on our maps, a void in our minds.  We tried to contain him, guide him on his path, but we failed.  We tried to manipulate those around him into killing him, but he avoided them all.  He survived and was sent back to Earth."
"So?"
"He had children."
"Children?" Kragkhen was so hungry he couldn't follow.  "What about children?"
"That's why I couldn't read Kim."  The Trith sounded as if he were confessing the very root of all evil.  "That's why Sky's Origin is unreadable.  It wasn't that Sky was influencing everyone around him...it's that all of them are vortexes.  Every one of them.  All of Joe's descendants.  Everyone with his blood that shouldn't have survived Congress's Judgement is now changing the future, altering it in ways it never should have been."
"What are you saying?"
The Trith looked shell-shocked.  "Those that don't share his blood have been around those that do for so long it makes no difference.  They've become vortexes in their own right."
"Trith, you test my patience," Kragkhen growled. "All I care about is removing the Human from Trade and humiliating both him and the Takki before the entire Regency."
The Trith gave him a long, unhappy stare.  "Kragkhen, all of Earth—"
"Speak up, fool!"  He was on his very last nerve, about to rip the Trith in half.
"The experiments survived," Sjilak whispered.
"What experiments?"
"The ones that Congress tried to kill," Sjilak went on in that mournful, pathetic tone.  "Dobbs saved them.  That's what made him a vortex.  Without him, the Minders would never have survived.  It's the Minders, Kragkhen.  Joe Dobb's children.  The genetic experiments that never should have survived."
Suddenly, Kragkhen understood.  "The experiments?  Sky was one of them?  Peacemakers assured me he wasn't very powerful."
"He was more powerful than you understand," Sjilak whimpered.  "The ruvmestin disappeared because the Humans sent one of their own to remove it.  Just one.  The planet appeared near Earth because one of their own created it.  Just one.  The Takki all left their masters at the same time, all across the galaxy, because a lone Minder sacrificed himself to awaken their sense of Self.  Just one."
Kragkhen realized he was staring, mouth agape like a cub.  He shook himself, fury returning to him.  "How long have you known this, Trith?!"
"Since the beginning."
"And you did not tell me?!" Kragkhen roared.
"I didn't want to give you an excuse to destroy Earth."
"You mean you were only interested in removing the vortexes," Kragkhen snarled.  "What happened to you obeying me, Trith?"
"You never asked how powerful Sky was," Sjilak said.  "You read the Peacemaker reports and were satisfied."
Kragkhen almost ate him right there.  Almost.  The thought of bringing these new charges against Earth before Congress, however, put him in a good mood.  He would enjoy watching the upstart Human writhe before the Tribunal.
Kragkhen found himself puzzling over that.  The Human Representative had housed the telepath for rotations.  Mullich must have known.  How did he think Congress would allow Earth to exist after learning its secret?  Had he thought to simply hide it from them forever?  Even a fool wouldn't have been so blind, and clearly Mullich was not a fool.
"But I've changed my mind," the Trith continued.  "You must kill them all.  Every single Human.  Before they realize what you're doing."  Sjilak hesitated.  "And you must do it soon, or they'll be unstoppable."
"And Congress?" Kragkhen demanded.  "Someone will warn them."
"The Watcher must isolate the Regency.  No outside communication."
Kragkhen considered it.  "Will Aliphei agree to a full isolation?"
"Yes."
He only needed one other vote.  Daviin could rot in his hells.
"I will do it now."  Kragkhen began to give orders to the Watcher.
"Kragkhen."
"What, Trith?"
"Make the attack as big as possible.  You'll need every ship you have."
Kragkhen snorted.
"I'm serious."
"You can't hide an attack that big from the news."
"You don't have to.  Just make sure Mullich and Larry are contained in their rooms.  With Forgotten gone, they are head of this kreenit.  We must remove them both, before they can ruin the future any more than they already have."
Kragkhen considered it.  Perhaps it would not be so bad to allow the media to see them crushing Earth—and, naturally, the Takki planet along with it.  Perhaps the Takki would see it and realize just how big of a mistake they'd made. 
The cowards would probably rush to serve again.
Kragkhen decided to send a notice to a few unscrupulous reporters.
He'd enjoy having video of Earth's final destruction.
#
"Earth can't stand against Trith."
It was the first thing Mullich had said since Kim had pried him out of his crate.  He was leaning back in his chair, now, one elbow propped against his desk, cradling his head in his hand.
"The Trith can't fight," Kim said.  "They're small and weak.  They aren't Movers or Makers or Minders.  What can they do?"
Mullich groaned and shook his head.  "Until now, the Trith have never taken sides.  If they're working with Congress, we're doomed."
As if to accentuate his statement, the Watcher said, "Representative Fred Mullich, the Tribunal has ordered a ban on all Representative travel and outside communication.  You are hereby confined to your room and the Regency until the ban is lifted."
By the pale look on Fred's face, it was not good news.
"And why has the ban been issued?" Fred asked softly.
"To prevent leakage of news of Congress's upcoming attack on Earth."
#
Once again, the politicians had meddled in military affairs, and once again, the military was paying the price for it.
Kerjia paced his quarters, furious.  The lifestone ban had been ridiculous.  Out of the entire universe, only the military was being forced to obey it.  On liberty, Kerjia had seen citizens using them in the open despite the ban, and the market booths made no effort at all to hide the fact they still sold them.  Even Peacemakers were using them.
And yet, if one of Kerjia's troops so much as put their hands on one while they were off the ship, the Corps Director insisted he demote the unfortunate soldier and follow that up by giving him the Eighth Degree.
Just another example of the military getting caught in the bureaucratic crosshairs.
As if that weren't bad enough, the Trade Association had decided to retaliate to the Regency's stupidity by giving the military the worst goods it could scrounge up, as if Kerjia's spacers somehow had something to do with their idiotic embargo.
Then, just when he thought it couldn't get any worse, Kerjia had received word that Earth—the same planet that had gifted the military billions instead of ignoring it as the wealthy planets did—was to be destroyed.
The troops had taken that news poorly.  They knew that this was just one more bystander that, like the military, had become embroiled in a political battle it had nothing to do with.  After the Regency's latest stupidities, the rank-and-file spacers and grounders wanted nothing to do with the conflict.  In fact, Kerjia sensed an emanating resentment from his troops, a disgust that the military was once again being forced to clean up a politician's mess.
The door sounded—a request to enter.
"Come in."
Commander Phyghe stepped into his chamber, bowing low so that his tall black form could pass through the entrance.
"Well?  Give me the statistics, not that the poor fools have a chance."
"I am normally not one for extremes, Overseer, but I recommend we use the ekhta."
"That would definitely be extreme."  Kerjia squinted at the ancient Ayhi.  "Why?"
The Ayhi bowed his red-patterned ebony head.  "The Dhasha have six deep dens on Earth.  Any ground incursions will sustain heavy losses."
"Because we have no Dhasha with us."
Phyghe nodded silently.
"The Jreet take the Takki," Kerjia cursed.  "When can we expect Dhasha reinforcements?"
"When the Dhasha and the Takki finish their deliberations and come to an agreement," Phyghe said.
"I never thought I'd see the day."  Kerjia sighed.  He had been told to use any force necessary to destroy the experiments, but he thought an ekhta was overkill.  His orders were to stop the mutants, not wipe out a species.  "What are our other options?"
"We believe an attack from space will wipe out at least ninety percent of the mutants.  From there, as long as we maintain space supremacy, we can monitor the gene pool and cull as needed."
"That sounds more reasonable," Kerjia said.
"Kragkhen will not like it."
"Kragkhen is trapped in the Regency with the other paper-pushers," Kerjia snapped.  "This is my command."
"He watches every moment," the Ayhi said softly.  "After this is over, you'll be made to pay for defying him."
"You mean even more than being thrown to a bullshit job at the very edge of space?"  But Kerjia knew the ancient alien spoke the truth.  Even then, Kragkhen's lackeys followed the armada like scavengers.  Several times, the Dhasha's agents had tried to suggest Kerjia make Earth's demise as bloody and as barbaric as possible, and in return, Kerjia had warned them to stay out of the way—or they would find themselves on the wrong side of an ekhta.
"He can watch all he wants," Kerjia continued.  "I'd rather sell myself to a Takki farm than caper to that idiot's whims."
Amusement flashed across the Ayhi's face before Phyghe bowed.  "Your crew agrees with you in that, Overseer."
Kerjia nodded.  "How much sooner?"
"When I left the bridge, we had another thirty tics."
"Very well," Kerjia said, standing.  "I suppose we should get this over with."
The Ayhi hesitated in the doorway.  "It seems a shame, doesn't it?"
"What?"
"Those mutants.  If they are as dangerous as we were told, why did they not hurt anybody?  They only produced stones."
"And built a planet," Kerjia said.  "Don't forget that."
"Yes," the Ayhi said softly.  Kerjia could see the creature's eyes move with thought.  "Which brings me back to my original statement.  We should use an ekhta."  The soft-spoken Commander bowed then and said, "But it is up to you, Overseer."  He moved to depart, as soft and as silent as a wraith.
Kerjia watched his Prime Commander closely.  "How old are you, Phyghe?"
Phyghe paused and turned to him.  "Thirty-three and a half thousand."
"And you think we should use an ekhta?"
"Yes," the Ayhi said.
"Why?"
Phyghe bowed deeply.  "It is for you to judge, Overseer, not I."
Frustrated with the Ayhi's tendency to count ferlii spores even for the most urgent of matters, Kerjia said, "Tell me, Phyghe.  Why should we destroy the whole planet?"
"If they have the power to make the Takki a planet, I would assume they also have the power to destroy our ships."
"We have no proof they built that planet other than Kragkhen's word."
"We do," Phyghe said.  "Last time Congress visited Earth, to stay out of sight, we followed the exact same orbit.  Right down to the march.  It can't be a coincidence, sir."
A cold chill settled in the pit of Kerjia's stomach.
But the Ayhi wasn't done.  "Further, the Regency never mentioned it, but six hundred and sixty-six turns ago when they originally punished Earth, there were three types of experiments.  Kragkhen warned us of only two."
"The Movers and the Makers."
Phyghe nodded.
"I was not alive the last time Earth was punished," Kerjia said.  "What was the third?"
"Don't you find it strange that all the Takki everywhere, in every corner of the universe, decided to abandon their masters at once?  Even those in the most remote colonies, with no reliable outside communication, followed their fellows and claimed their citizenship.  It left the Dhasha weak, unable to do anything but beg for aid.  The only Dhasha not affected were those on Earth."
"We already know Humans were coordinating their efforts with Takki.  The Humans got them their Representative seat in the Regency."
Phyghe nodded and looked like he would say no more.  Then, softly, he said, "Your species is too short-lived to remember six hundred and sixty-six turns past, Kerjia.  But the Ayhi remember.  We knew this would happen the moment those two Humans disappeared from your ship."
Kerjia bristled at the accusation.  "Knew what would happen?"
"The third type of experiment consisted of telepaths."
"Mind-readers?"
"Mind-manipulators, more accurately.  Their intended purpose in the Human army was to kill with a thought.  They were the pride and joy of the human scientists—it was projected each could kill millions before tiring."
Kerjia felt his sudah fluttering.  "Why was I not told of this?"
"It was classified," Phyghe said.  "But the Ayhi remember."
"Why do you tell me now?  Why didn't you tell me earlier, before we set a course for Earth?"
"Because if we remain silent now, they will kill us all, and I was hoping you would prevent that."
Kerjia fought the urge to hit the Ayhi for purposefully withholding information that would have gotten them all promoted instead of delegated to space pirate watch.  Balling his fists, he forced himself into calm.
"Kragkhen does not realize," the Ayhi went on, seemingly oblivious to Kerjia's anger.  "He is not old enough to understand."
"Understand what?"
"The connections."
"I don't have time to read between the lines, Phyghe," Kerjia snapped.  Tell me what is going on."
"Everything that's happened—the Takki revolting, the planet appearing, the Humans gaining the Trade seat, the sudden spread of lifestones, the embargoes, the ruvmestin planets failing, the Trade Alliance's disfavor...  It's all interconnected."
"How so?"
"It's a warning.  One very...elegant...warning."
As Kerjia stared at him, Phyghe bowed and left him to return to the bridge alone.  Once he was at the helm, he stared at the planet that rotated on their screen, a ball of blue, brown, green, and white.  Seemingly innocuous, yet...
"Shall we send the first wave?"
"No," Kerjia said.  "Send an ekhta."
#
Rri'jan watched in a secluded café booth as it happened.  Every café, every bar, every restaurant in every corner of Congress was playing the same images—knowledge that Humanity had taken the next step in evolution had made all the inferior races quiver and Earth's destruction had been the only news story for days now.
The room fell into a hushed silence as the ekhta erupted from the hull of the central ship and raced in all of its blue and silver brilliance to Earth's atmosphere.  Rri'jan did not cheer with the others as it ducked under the bluish haze outlining the Earth and began its descent.  Instead, he watched.
As he anticipated, the ekhta did not activate.
Boos and cries of robbery filled the café and it was all the owner could do to keep things under control until the central ship launched another.
It, too, impacted Earth without so much as a bang.
The third one Kerjia launched slowed before it reached the atmosphere, then veered suddenly and sailed right back into the midst of the Congressional fleet of its own accord.
Here it comes, Rri'jan thought.
But the ekhta did not explode, taking billions of lives with it.  Instead, it only hovered, waiting.
Then, as ships moved out of range, they began to move with a jerky awkwardness, something unachievable with technology alone.  Rri'jan sat forward, watching.
Like stones lined up on a beach, the patterns of ships began to spell Congie words.  Every mouth in the room fell silent as the words GO AWAY stood out on the screen in perfect Congie.  Then the ships re-formed.  WE WANT PEACE.  Then again.  BUT WE WILL GIVE YOU A WAR.
What are they waiting for? Rri'jan wondered. 
"Is that a joke?" an Ooreiki sitting across the table from him demanded, staring at the screen.
"No," Rri'jan said. 
The ships weren't done forming words for the cameras.  WE MADE A PLANET.  They changed again.  WE CAN DESTROY ONE, TOO. 
A sudden image, not from his own thoughts or mind, hit him like a sledgehammer, a vision of a thousand planets imploding at once made him shudder with its intensity.  All around him, aliens screamed and stood.  Rri'jan remained seated.
YOUR ECONOMIES CRUMBLE.  WE CAN HELP.
Images of aid, of relief flooding to every needy planet via Earth's ships.
OR WE CAN RUIN YOU.
Images of starvation, death, and pestilence.
Rri'jan sat in absolute silence as the café erupted in chaos around them. 
WE CAN TURN YOU ON ONE ANOTHER.
Images of war, Dhasha fighting Dhasha, Ooreiki fighting Ooreiki, Huouyt fighting Huouyt.
IT WILL NOT BE OUR BLOOD SPILT, NOW OR EVER.
Images of grounders dropping dead in their biosuits before they ever had a chance to raise their guns.  Spaceships colliding, losing their cargoes to the void.  Koliinaat collapsing into a pinprick.
LEAVE OR BE CRUSHED.
An empty supply drone crumpled into nothingness on the screen, leaving a tiny wad of metal and dust.
Then, as all of Congress watched, the Humans relinquished control of the ships and waited.
Slowly, the armada turned from Earth and headed home.







CHAPTER 48: Remembering the Forgotten
Kim stepped off the ship and took a deep breath.  The air of her home planet was clean, as it had always been, but Kim still felt sadness as she looked at the tall pine trees and the lapping waves scattered throughout the black pathways and obsidian spires of the Black City.  She took another deep breath to steady herself.  She'd been planning out what to say to Fire for the last three weeks, the knowledge of what she had to say—of what she had done—festering in her soul like a cancer.
It was time to end the lie.
Fire was where he said he would be, waiting for her near one of the arching black bridges crossing the lake at the center of the Black City.  He smiled as she approached and offered her a seat on the shore beside him.  She sat down in the sand and together they watched the lake in silence.
"It's ours," Fire said, still sounding a little amazed.  Turning to her, there was unmistakable awe in his eyes.  "You and Sky did it.  The Regency drew up papers.  Released us from Congress.  Set up a sovereign boundary.  Congress won't come anywhere near us again."
"They'll try," Kim said, trying not to feel bitter at how untrustworthy the aliens had proven to be.  "Earth can't get complacent.  They have an entire species of assassins that can shapeshift.  All it would take is for them to pick off a few thousand of us..."
Fire waved that off.  "The Council can take care of them."
"Yeah, but the Huouyt—"
Fire put his hand on her shoulder and gave it a compassionate squeeze.  "Blue Rose is monitoring the assassins."
Kim found herself fighting sudden tears.  She kept forgetting that there were other Minders, other protectors of Earth.  The loss of Sky had been so monumental that, to her, it was as if he had been the only one.
"Blue Rose says Sky left you with a child," Fire offered tentatively.  "I haven't...looked.  I thought it would be disrespectful."
This time, Kim couldn't stop the tears and had to look away.
"The child's arrival is...heavily anticipated," he said gently.  "The Black City will welcome him, regardless of whether or not he—"
"He is," Kim said.  She could already feel his consciousness growing within her.  Not quite a mountain like his father, but he still had a long way to go...
Fire watched in pent-up silence as she swiped the tears from her cheeks.  Then, almost timidly, he said, "You wanted to tell me something?"
Kim nodded, unsure how to begin.
When he waited for several more minutes and she still couldn't bring herself to say anything, he looked back out over the lake.  "I grew up thinking I'd have to fight," Fire said.  "Now I don't know what to do."
"Build cities."
"What will you do?"
"Leave," Kim said.  "I can't stay."
"Leave...Earth?" Fire asked, looking nervous.
"Don't know."  The pain was wrenching at her heart and she couldn't look at him.
Fire's disappointment clear.  "Why not?"
"Because of you."
He flinched like she had hit him.  "Kim, I told you I was sorry," he babbled.  "I never meant to—"
"You're not the original Fire."
Her brother stared at her, his words dying on his lips.  "What?"
"I killed the original when I made you."
"When you..."  Fire laughed, but there was an anxiousness there.  "You're joking, right?"
"Think back," Kim said.  "You saw the trees change places right before I killed the original.  Turned him to white powder."
Fire paled.  "I'm the copy?"
"Exact copy," Kim said.  "Right down to the tiniest particle."
He grew angry, then, his face darkening dangerously.  "You killed me?"
"Your original self.  Yes."
"Over a pendant?"
Kim nodded.  She pulled it off her neck and offered it to him.
Fire looked at it as if it were poisonous.  "You killed your own brother over a pretty stone.  You swear it?"
"Yes."
He stared at her.  "Why didn't Blue Rose say anything?"
"I'm not sure Blue understands what I did."
Fire stood up.  After casting her one, dark look, he turned and walked away.
Kim watched him go, feeling old.  Maybe she would leave Earth, after all.  This place didn't seem as much like home without Sky.
...and Forgotten had promised to travel with her, if she ever wanted to explore the universe.  He'd even promised to help her with the child and whatever...quirks...it might present.
She considered her options for several hours.  Earth was the most natural option, but after seeing the stars with Sky, it seemed provincial, backwards.
And Forgotten had promised to show her things she'd never seen before...
Fire found her later, as she was climbing aboard Forgotten's ship.
"You're leaving?"  His face was shadowed.
"Yes," Kim said, stronger than she felt.
"When are you coming back?"
"I don't know if I will."
His brown eyes watched her a moment before they softened, "I hope you do."
Kim blinked. "Even after—"
Fire put a hand on her shoulder and smiled at her.  "I should be grateful, right?  I mean, you basically saved my life.  Anybody else would've killed the copy."
"You're not angry?"  She couldn't believe it.
"I was.  I got over it.  When are you coming back?"  He squeezed her shoulder, his brown eyes riveted to hers.
"Forgotten had a few things he wanted to show me," Kim heard herself say.  "Maybe a year or two."
"Good."  Grinning, Fire released her and backed away, giving her access to the ship.  "I'll see you then."  He watched her as she walked inside the Geuji's ship.
Ready, Kim? Blue Rose's mind-voice was brisk, businesslike.  The Minder was already standing in the back corner of the ship's main living area, elegant in her embroidered black-and-gold robes and her citrine jewelry.  Under the diadem, however, her look was irritable.  She'd made no secret that she didn't like the deal that Kim and Sky had made with Forgotten, but since Sky was dead and Blue was the next strongest Minder, the task had fallen to her.
Kim took a deep breath.  "Forgotten, are you sure you want to do this?"
"I've never been more sure, Kim."
"Won't it make you...stupider?"
"A little," he admitted.  "But I've spent a large portion of the last three weeks working out the details so that I will be able to retain most of my original intellect.  The only drawback—if you can call it that—is that I will not gain any more intelligence."
Kim looked at the pile of mud and sand in the center of the room.  They had made a very large pile, as per Forgotten's instructions, and she wondered what type of form he would want to take.
"So how do we make this work?" Kim said.
"I will feed Blue Rose a link of images," Forgotten said, "Which she will pass to you.  I've analyzed every substance involved, right down to the sub-atomic particles, so I should be able to communicate with you on a level you can understand."
After everything they'd been through—after freeing her homeworld from Congress with only this one request in return—she trusted him.  "Okay."
"Brace yourself on the floor, if you will," Forgotten said through the ship's speaker.  "You might want to lay down completely."
Kim followed his advice.
Blue Rose did not move.  The elderly woman was standing tall, her weathered hands clasped against the embroidered yellow flowers of her robe.  She was watching the pile of dirt with something akin to disdain.  "Before we start, I just want to make something clear."  As Kim and Forgotten waited, she said, "After this day, the creation of life will be banned by the Council.  Anyone caught doing it on Earth will be executed.  The only reason we allow it here today is that Kim and Sky made a deal with you for our benefit.  You fulfilled your end of the bargain, so now shall we fulfill ours."
"I understand," Forgotten said solemnly.  "And I agree with you.  Creation of life should be left to Nature."
"I don't suppose this means you no longer want a body," Blue Rose muttered.
"No," Forgotten said.  "But if it makes you feel better, I do not plan any sort of viable reproductive abilities."
"Then let's get this over with," Blue Rose said, making a face, "Before I have second thoughts."
Kim closed her eyes and focused on the pile of mud and rock.  The first thing she did was grasp it all with her mind and change it to a single manageable substance—ruvmestin.
"Here goes.  Blue Rose, I am transferring the images to you now.  Please transmit them to Kim."
Then, as Kim waited, images began to blaze in her mind, images so detailed and complex that she had to struggle to keep up. 
"Relax, Kim, take as long as you need," Forgotten said.  "I've waited nine hundred and ninety-eight turns already.  There's no rush."
It was a small thing to take the images in her mind and make them reality, bit by bit, part by part, until the whole trembled and lived and breathed on the floor beside her.
"It's done," Blue Rose announced, frowning down at the body Forgotten had chosen for himself.  "I've moved him to the new form.  You may kill him, now."
Kim drifted into Forgotten's room, feeling his body and its endless layers of pathways.  Still she hesitated.  What if Blue simply wanted her to kill the Geuji, tie up lose ends?
That's your time with the aliens talking, she thought, thinking of Rri'jan.
"Kill the body!" Blue snapped.  "I can't hold him in the new one forever!"
Kim took a steadying breath.  Though they had rehearsed it, she found it difficult.  Trying not to think of Fire, she destroyed Forgotten the Geuji.
Trembling, Kim sat bolt upright and crawled to the naked creature on the floor.  He looked Human, but she knew he was not.  His inner constitution was completely different.  He had no lungs, no heart, no internal organs at all.  His long black hair wasn't hair, but something...else.  And he didn't even have blood.
When Forgotten opened his eyes, Kim flinched back.  They were brilliant green, like her illustrious grandmother...or her own.
Forgotten closed his eyes again and began twisting his limbs and joints, completing the same eerie dance he had once done with Sky's body, growing from bumbling infant to the dexterity of a brain surgeon in less than a minute.  When he sat up, his bright emerald eyes were twinkling mischievously.
"There," Blue Rose said.  "It is done.  Don't ask for anything else."  The Minder stood abruptly, her robes swishing about her.  She walked three steps, then paused.  For a long moment, she just stood there, her back to them.  Then, frowning, looking somewhat confused, she glanced over her shoulder.  Her citrines twinkled in their black settings as her eyes found Forgotten and she looked him over.
"If your visitor wants to enter the Black City from here on, Kim, you'll need to accompany him.  Don't let it happen again."  Without another word, the Minder left the ship.
Kim frowned.  Don't let it happen again?
Forgotten grinned after her.  "She doesn't remember."  He sounded ecstatic.
Kim squinted at Forgotten.  "Remember what?"
"Oh, nothing."  He waved that off.  "Just working out a few kinks."  He was grinning at her again, his emerald eyes finding hers curiously.  "What do you think of the body?"
It was, in all truth, probably the most handsome form she'd ever seen.  It was like every single detail had been plucked from her personal desires...
"It's abnormal," Kim said, avoiding looking at his body's constitution due to the discomfort it gave her.  "What did you do?  Your body is like nothing I've ever seen."
Forgotten grunted and stood, appearing not to notice his own nakedness, and walked to the other side of the ship.  For the first time, Kim noticed the folded pile of robes on the floor.  He drew one up, examined it, then tossed it behind him and chose another.
"I've come to favor green," he explained, wrapping the emerald garment around his shoulders.  He had to try twice—the first time, his fingers got stuck in the sleeve.
Kim watched uncomfortably, wondering where he had been exposed to green before.  "So now what?"
He looked up at her and grinned.  "Are you still willing to help me free my people?  Just as a favor between you and me?  I can provide a plan, if you are able."
"Yes," Kim said, grateful for something to think about that didn't include the odd feeling that Blue's reaction hadn't been normal.  "Do you still want a planet for them?"
"You've already built it," he said, tugging on pants, now.  "They will live with the Takki."
"Have the Takki agreed to this?"
"They will.  It is a good match."
"How do we free them?"
"Simple," Forgotten said.  He winked at her.  "We walk into their prison on Levren, tell them we're all-powerful Humans who want their charges, and they'll let them go."
"I can't change minds," Kim said, "Or move things.  We should probably ask Blue to go with us."
Forgotten waved a dismissive hand.  "I'm not worried."
#
When they reached the prison, it was exactly as Forgotten had predicted.  All Kim had to do was create a house-sized orb of ruvmestin and within an hour all the Geuji were on ships bound for Earth's system.
"You didn't tell them who you were," Kim said as they watched the last ship depart.  She was stunned.  She would've thought Forgotten would have at least tried to talk to them.
Forgotten shrugged.  "Forgotten is dead."
"But they're your people."
"My people are old and tired," Forgotten said.  "I am the youngest of any of them.  I haven't yet reached the point where life is meaningless, and so I can still find the will to face each day.  They do not.  They've seen everything, experienced every action, had every thought that is possible to have.  Life has no more interest to them.  My people in all likelihood will have the Takki kill them." 
Kim flinched away from him.  "You freed them just so they could commit suicide?"
Forgotten looked at her and said, "Yes."
"Will the Geuji survive?"
Forgotten smiled.  "They might.  They are resourceful creatures, after all.  A few of them might release spores before they kill themselves.  Continue the misery."
Kim felt tricked.  Wronged.  "I didn't help you so you could kill off your people."
"Technically, they're going to kill themselves off."
Once again, she felt like a fool—a puppet dancing to the Geuji's tune.  "Take me home."
Forgotten reached out and took her hand gently, his deep green eyes sobering.  "I'm sorry.  I shouldn't be so blasé.  You don't understand.  For the first time in a million and a half turns, we're giving them a choice.  They will choose.  They're no longer bound in darkness, alone with their thoughts.  If they want to kill themselves, that's their choice.  At least they have one, now.  For over a million years, they had nothing but silence.  It will be bliss for them, whatever they decide."
Kim relaxed a little, but still found herself disgruntled.  "You need to tell me things before you just do them," she said.  "Like I told Sky, I'm a friend, not a puppet."
Forgotten blinked at her, his breath suddenly leaving him.
"Why are you staring at me like that?" Kim demanded.
Staring, he remained in silence for a moment before he managed, "Because you're right."  He blinked like a baffled owl.  "I just had to rewrite all of my future interactions with you because I was still looking at you like a Geuji and not like a friend.  Puppets to a bitter, immobile puppetmaster.  That's exactly how I thought.  Make others move because I myself could not."
Kim squinted at him.  "What do you mean, 'rewrite your future interactions with me'?"
"Oh nothing.  I just have some...plans...and what just you said helped greatly, thank you.  Put things into perspective."
"What plans?" Kim said.
Forgotten grinned.  "Adventure."
Kim squinted at him.  "Like what?"
Forgotten hesitated, his excitement flagging.  "I..."  He swallowed.  "I mean, I can tell you if you want, but I was hoping it could be a surprise."
"Tell me," Kim said, having had enough of his 'surprises'.
She watched Forgotten hesitate, then open his mouth to dismiss her again.
"Not a puppet," she gritted.
Forgotten flinched.  He seemed to debate that in his head, silent for long moments.  Then, watching her anxiously, the Geuji finally steeled himself.  "Kim Hovland, what I'm about to tell you is the complete truth.  Before I tell you, however, know you could crush me with it."
"Oh...kaaay."
"Kim, I think I'm in love with you."
She blinked.
"I'm very fond of you, even if it's not yet love," Forgotten babbled quickly, "I've never experienced this before, so I don't know, and it's actually rather terrifying.  But, regardless, I'd like the chance to woo you.  Your interactions with Sky made me realize you have the tolerance and patience that I would need in a partner, and while you would never match me intellectually, you have certain...observations...that come from being trapped in your particular intellectual gradient that are refreshing and challenging, and I need both refreshment and challenge.  I was going to take the opportunity to show you the galaxy and help raise your child in the interim in an attempt to convince you I'd make a suitable mate.  That was my surprise.  I was going to court you slowly, maybe invite you on a date a few rotations from now, and see if I had learned enough about Human romance to make myself adequate in that department.  I had it all planned out, and I'm even now screwing up the plan by talking about it, but you wanted honesty between us, so I'm trying to respect your wishes and not piss myself with panic." 
Did he say love?  She blinked twice, thinking she'd misheard in the rush.  "Come again?"
"But I also wanted to start over," Forgotten went on, speaking even more quickly, now.  "I realize I've been less than perfect as a friend, and a lot of the ways I had to use your resources to enact Sky's plan left us with a less-than-perfect relationship.  I was hoping for a fresh slate.  Complete truth, honesty, and trust between us.  I don't want any of our previous interactions to shade what I hope is to come."
Kim squinted at him.  "Fresh slate?"
"The people of your planet gave me certain...inspirations," Forgotten said.  "But before I proceed, I'd like permission to make it possible to court you."
"I'm really confused," Kim whispered.
"Please just say yes," Forgotten said.  His eyes were desperate and utterly intense.  "It won't be bad.  I promise."
"Yes to what?"
"A fresh slate.  Us starting over.  Friends, not puppet and puppeteer."
She eyed him warily, feeling there was more to that than he was letting on.  "I don't see a problem with that..." she went on.  "Forgotten, did you say you were in love with—"
"Kim, would you let me start us over?  Completely blank slate?  Just trust and honesty?  Like we would have interacted had we not been forced to engage in Sky's plan to save Congress?  Will you allow that?"  The way he was asking was almost...official.
Kim squinted at him.  "Yesss, but—"
Forgotten let out the breath he'd been holding.  "Thank you.  Just a moment, while I make some alterations."
She frowned.  "What kind of alterations?"
"Your memories of what I was," Forgotten said, his voice apologetic.  "I swear to you I won't alter anything else, especially not your preferences or personality or any affections for me.  I just have to remove what you know of my history."
Kim frowned.  "You want to take my memory?"  She immediately put herself in her second consciousness, as she had gotten into the habit with Sky when he unnerved her.  "You're acting weird, Forgotten."
"That's because I'm terrified," Forgotten whispered.  "This is the ultimate culmination of everything I've hoped for since I was old enough to travel the universe on my own, and all you'd have to do to destroy me is tell me no."  He waited, then, giving her the opportunity.
Kim almost did it.  She felt, once again, like a puppet in the hands of a puppetmaster...but this time, she felt he'd cut the strings and given her a choice.  And the gesture meant more to her than anything he'd ever said to her.  "Would it help?  Taking memories?"
"Oh yes."
"And you could give them back if I need them?" she demanded.
"In an instant," he agreed.
Kim considered, remembering the Minder's strange reaction to him back on Earth.  "Is that what you did to Blue Rose?  Why she kept acting like you were a stranger afterwards?"
Tense, Forgotten inclined his head.
"And you want to do something similar to me?"
He nodded again.
She peered at him.  "You made yourself like Sky, didn't you?"
"Minus the crippling empathy," he replied.  "It's still there, but I can turn it off.  Part of being a Minder—you can put yourself in anyone else's shoes."
Kim looked him over, weighing his genuine openness with just how badly she was still aching inside without him.  "Sky...meant a lot to me, Forgotten.  It still hurts.  I'm not sure I'm ready to try to love someone else."
"I can wait," Forgotten said immediately.  "You've probably deduced this about me by now, but my kind are very patient."
Patient...and if he was a Minder strong enough to make Blue forget, then he might have what it was going to take to withstand the effects that she was already feeling from her baby. 
"My child..." she began, thinking about how Sky had killed his own mother.
"Doesn't scare me," Forgotten said firmly.  "I could help you with him."
Him...  So he already knows it's a boy.  Gingerly, Kim offered, "But you want to take some memories to make that work?"
"Just to give us a fresh canvas," Forgotten said.  "Something that eschews all the negativity borne of circumstance."
She squinted at him.  "If you did it to Blue, you don't need to ask to do it to me."
Again, Forgotten indicated agreement with a slight nod, though his emerald eyes were guilty.
"You're gonna do it whether or not I say yes, aren't you?"
For a long moment, Forgotten said nothing.  Then, softly, like he had to force the words from his throat, he hoarsely managed, "If you say no, I'll walk away.  On my honor."
"And if I say yes?"
"I'm going to do everything I can do to win your heart, fairly and honestly, using no tricks but what I know of you and the limited time I've had to study your species."
Kim looked him over, knowing that, if he had actually made himself like Sky, he could make her say yes.
But he was waiting.  Hoping.
Though it wasn't what she had been expecting, Kim wasn't exactly disappointed.
"I like flowers," Kim said finally.  "And poetry.  You don't really need to do anything fancy like erase memories."
The tension in Forgotten's face melted into a smile. "Kim, I wish this weren't necessary, I truly do, but we can't have this between us.  What I was before—a bitter, lonely, stagnant, imprisoned savant—no longer exists, and as such, I'd like to ensure you think of me only as I am, and not as what I once was."  He reached up and gently traced a finger across her brow.  "Time for it to go."
Time for what to go?  Kim stared up at Forgotten, wondering if he'd lost his mind.
"I haven't," Forgotten said, watching the place where his finger touched her forehead.  "Just being near you and mobile, I feel better than I've felt in nine hundred and ninety-eight turns combined.  And my name is Remembered, now.  You may call me Reme."
"Reme?"  Kim snorted.  "That's not a nam—"  Forgotten pressed his thumb firmly against her skull, and sudden, white-hot electricity blanked the rest of what she had been about to say.  She blinked. 
Reme lowered his hand from her face, looking apologetic.
"Reme?"
"Yes?"  He was watching her with eyes that looked sad.
"What were we just talking about?"
"The death of the Geuji, I believe."  Were there tears in his eyes?
Immediately, Kim felt a crushing wave of sadness.  "He was a good person.  I wish I could've helped him.  He was so lonely."
"He's not lonely anymore, Kim." 
Something about the way Reme said it made Kim bite her lip and look away.  "I hope you're right."
Reme reached out and gave her shoulder a stabilizing squeeze.  "I know I am.  He's in a much better place, I assure you."
#
Syuri slumped in a corner of his cell simply because he was too bored to continue pacing.  He wasn't sure how long had passed since he'd been captured and thrown into prison on some nameless refueling station, but he'd been transferred so many times since that he was pretty sure it had been at least a couple rotations. Now that his trial and sentencing were over, he'd only been waiting for them to pick an executioner.  There were so many candidate planets vying for that position that it had actually slowed the process.
Either that, or they'd simply forgotten about him.  For at least half a rotation, now...
He was plucking at the sleeve of his prisoner uniform, considering whether or not it would have any utility in a pinch, when his cell door swung open without notice.  Syuri looked up with the disinterest of a condemned man.  They had delivered his food already that morning, which meant they had either come to a decision or they were there to resume the beatings.
A Human stranger strode into the room, eying the sparse furnishings—just a pile of blankets, a draining basin to slough off his own excrement, and a metal chair bolted to the floor.  The chair was intentionally uncomfortable, only provided for the convenience of any Peacemaker interrogator wanting to tie him down and beat him, though the beatings had stopped pretty much after the first couple days. 
Whistling at the Spartan state of the place, the Human said, "They certainly spared no expense on the décor, did they, my old friend?"
"Just another day in the illustrious life of a career criminal," Syuri said automatically.  Then he frowned, noticing that the stranger was neither dressed in Congie black nor a Peacemaker.  Instead, the newcomer wore green robes much like the Minder Syuri had met on Earth, and his gaze was as deep an emerald as Kim's.
"It's a horrible thing to be Forgotten."  The Human watched him, his green eyes twinkling mischievously.  "Don't you agree, Syuri?"  He glanced at the sparse decoration of Syuri's cell.  "Especially in a dump like this."
"I tend to agree."  Syuri felt his internal pressure rising.  Was this the telepath he had heard so much about?
Before he could ask, the Human said, "Sky's eyes were blue." Then the man bared his teeth at him in a ferocious, amused Human smile, as if gloating he had plucked the thought straight from Syuri's mind before he could speak it.
Syuri glanced behind the Human at the guards outside.  They stood on either side of the cell, watching the hallway outside, showing no indication they knew a Human now shared his cell space...or that they intended to close the cell door.  "You're...a friend?"  It was so hard to believe.  After so long, it was so hard...  He tried to stand, but was weak from exhausting himself earlier with a lack of proper nutrients to replace it.
"About the best one you've got," the man confirmed, offering him a hand up. 
"Is Kim here too?" Syuri asked, taking it.  The moment their hands connected, Syuri felt...stronger somehow.  Odd.  He looked at his hand, then squinted at the arm that held him.  His sivvet were picking up...mirth?
The Human winked at him and tugged him back to his feet.  "Kim's waiting for you back on the ship.  She's got food for you."  The Human waited as Syuri got his feet back under him.
"Food?" Syuri asked.  Hagra's balls he hated feeling this stupid.  "Are you breaking me out?"
"Yes, but I won't be accompanying you quite yet.  I figure now that I've got legs, I might as well use them.  I wanted to explore the local bars, maybe get into an aggressive confrontation with some other males and potentially experience someone pounding me senseless.  I've always wanted to know what that felt like to get into a physical disturbance."  The Human cocked his head thoughtfully.  "Though I doubt it's as satisfying as so many bar patrons seem to believe."
Syuri stared at the Human.  Had he missed some colloquialism?
"The guards will take you to Kim," the Human said.  "They'll think they're transferring you to the transport ship slated to take you to your execution, not that anyone really cares anymore now that Earth shook things up.  The last the Peacemakers here heard instructions from Koliinaat was half a rotation ago."
"I have to admit," Syuri said, watching the Human carefully, "I'm a little confused.  If I didn't know better, I'd say you sound a lot like a friend of mine, before he very visibly and publicly died.  Are you...channeling...a friend of mine?"
"No, this body is definitely something I'd pick for myself."  Another wave of amusement tickled his sivvet.
Syuri squinted at the Human through his nutrient-starved brain fog.  "What's so funny?  Did Forgotten pay you extra to humiliate me?"
"We both know I don't have much need for money, Syuri."
Syuri frowned.  "Unless you're a Representative or a Geuji, you have just as much need of money as an old Jahul."  He cocked his head, something about the Human's confidence at odds with the other Humans he had met.  "Are you a Representative?"
The Human's answer was an even wider grin.  "Speaking of money, I owe you something."  The green-eyed Human held out his hand between them, palm-up.  As Syuri watched, a wind picked up in the room and something coalesced on his palm.  Something familiar.
"My ruvmestin," Syuri gasped.  When the Maker offered it to him, he took it gingerly.  "You talked to Forgotten?  Before he..."  Syuri swallowed, thinking of the thousands of hours of dice, chats, and morally-dubious capers that he would never enjoy with his best friend.  "...died?"
The Human sobered and strode across the room to the metal chair.  He sat down, leaning back and placing his elbows on the two rests as he watched Syuri.  "Let's let it suffice to say I knew what your friend was thinking as he died."
Syuri felt a spasm of loss, his hope fading.  "Did he have any messages for me?"
"Indeed.  I'm sure he'll have a lot of messages for you over the next few rotations."
"He always was a gabby old Jreet," Syuri muttered.
The Human's grin might as well have split his face.  "But one thing he really wanted you to know is he won't be needing any more of your mismatched ships.  In the state he is now, he can design his own."  Another wave of mirth bombarded his sivvet.
"What in the Jreet hells is so funny?" Syuri demanded.
"Oh, I'm sure you'll figure it out."  The Human started flipping a ruvmestin coin across the backs of his fingers, grinning.
"Have mercy on an old Jahul," Syuri asked.
"He also thought you were the best friend he'd ever had, and he is therefore not going to wipe your memory.  You'll be the only one to share the secret he took to his grave."
Syuri frowned.  That was just like that corpse rot, to wipe everyone's memory right before he died.  He squinted at the Human, feeling the tired cogs of his brain struggling to turn.
"So...he's really dead?" Syuri asked.
"The one you knew as Forgotten is dead, yes."
Syuri shuddered and stared at the ruvmestin he carried, fighting back the sudden ache of loss.  "I thought perhaps it had been a ruse, that he'd somehow found a way to duplicate a Geuji body..."
"Oh, he definitely made himself a body."  The Maker was leaning back in the chair, tapping a finger on the chair, watching him way too carefully.  "When was the last time you had your nutrients, Jahul?"
"They don't give me supplementals," Syuri muttered.  "I'm as dumb as a furg right now."  He squinted.  "Why?  Is there something I'm missing?"
"It's minor."  The Human kept grinning at him, tapping the arm of the chair.  "I'm dropping as many hints as I can—eventually something will click."
For a moment, Syuri's hope overcame him and he thought the Human had been suggesting Forgotten was still alive.  Then he realized he simply meant for Syuri to carry out the Geuji's final wishes to enact the plan Kim and Larry had been so worried about.
"Humanity is free from Congress, Syuri.  The way you're thinking, someone might come to the conclusion you've been in prison the last two months."
Syuri blinked at the Human.  "You're a telepath."  He frowned, remembering what the lizard had told him about genetics and how only one expression of the mutant gene could present at a time.
The twinkle in the green eyes increased and the human gave a slight nod.
"But the lizard told me there's never been a cross," Syuri said.
"As far as he knows, there still hasn't."  The Human's eyes glittered in amusement as he watched the flood of thoughts cross Syuri's face.
"Can you move objects, too?"
In reply, the ball of ruvmestin lifted weightlessly out of Syuri's hand and did a lap around the room before settling back into Syuri's cradled fingers.  The Human on the chair laid back, watching him with increasing amusement.
Was he hallucinating?
"Too much time in a cell can do odd things to your head," the human said, standing.  "I'll see you again in a few hours.  Kim will fill you in.  Until then, I've got legs to use, places to see, fights to start."
At that, the Human strode right through the wall of his cell.
The human didn't melt the wall then walk through the mess, as Kim would have done, but strode straight through the wall.  Syuri's jaw dropped as he watched the Human wave to him, half-swallowed by the wall, then be absorbed as he turned and continued walking.  The footsteps were starting to disappear in the hall when it all clicked for him.
Made himself a body...
"Forgotten, you janja-loving vaghi pile!" Syuri cried, scuttling to the door.
Up ahead, the Human turned and peeked over his shoulder.  Putting a finger to his lips, he said, It's Reme now.  Don't tell Kim.  Then, without another word, he disappeared through another wall.
Syuri's fingers tightened on the ruvmestin, a smile crossing his lips for the first time since his capture.  "You fire-loving Jreet," he whispered.
#
"Thought I'd find you here, Huouyt."
Rri'jan looked up and froze.  Though the words had been in perfect, unaccented Morinthian Huouyt, the creature standing before him was a Human.
A Human within the sacred halls of Poen, where no one but an Ooreiki yeeri was given access.
"Forgotten."
"How quickly you jump to conclusions."  The Human pulled up a chair across from him and sat down.  "That Geuji died, Huouyt.  You killed him yourself."
Rri'jan glanced at the other patrons of the library, but none of them seemed to notice the Human in their midst—a species that, due to the notoriety of what had just happened between Congress and Earth—would have been immediately recognizable to even the most insipid Jahul.  "Did you come to gloat, Jemria?"  He himself wore an Ooreiki pattern, taken from a yeeri who had run afoul of his employer, back on Koliinaat.
"You truly think me so petty?"
"Then you came to kill me."
The Geuji did not answer him.  "Doing some heavy reading?" Forgotten asked, motioning to the console in front of Rri'jan.
"I know you completed your pact with the Humans.  You can kill me without breaking your oath."  In truth, Rri'jan longed for it.
"Would it make you feel better if I told you I am not here to kill you?"
"No.  It means you've got something worse in store for me, if I don't kill you first."
Forgotten laughed at him.  "Rri'jan, for once you are correct."
Rri'jan readied a poison to flee.
"You see," Forgotten said, "I am going to give you a conscience."
Rri'jan was so surprised he laughed.  "That's all?"
The Geuji's vivid green eyes scanned his.  "That's all I need to do."
"And then what?" Rri'jan snapped.  "I'll go to an Ooreiki cloister to serve out my life in as penance?  Or should I merely kill myself?"
"No, I don't think I'll let you kill yourself," Forgotten said.  "I want you to have plenty of time to enjoy your new sensations."
Rri'jan analyzed the Geuji's new host.  There was something different about it.  Something not quite Human.  When the realization dawned upon him, he slowly, carefully, got out of his seat.
"You're not channeling through a telepath," Rri'jan bit out.  "The naïve fools actually made you a body."
"They were a little naïve," the Geuji said solemnly.  Looking Rri'jan over, he added, "You're sharp, Rri'jan.  Sometimes I wonder how I survived your wrath all this time."
"Is that sarcasm, Geuji?!" Rri'jan snarled, allowing some of his rage and shame to show, despite himself.
"No.  Truth."  Forgotten sounded regretful.  "Part of the consequence of having this body is that I am disgustingly empathetic to everyone around me.  I realize I am partly—if not mostly—responsible for your current state, so I must do something to stop the cycle and make amends."
Rri'jan could feel his zora twist in rage inside his fleshy Ooreiki head.  "Make amends?  It's not possible, Betrayer."
"I think it is."  Forgotten leaned back, looking up at him.  "Your honor is unusually deep-rooted, for a Huouyt.  How many years did you serve Mekkval before he died?"
"Not enough," Rri'jan said, remembering the shame of facing a Dhasha without zora, remembering the bewilderment as Mekkval won ka-par, then offered him service instead of slavery.  Then, on Rri'jan's very first day of serving the Dhasha Representative as a worthless Huouyt without zora, Mekkval had sent him to an illicit specialist surgeon to return to him his missing organ.
Not even you should remain a cripple, Mekkval had told him, as he stood in the surgery in shock.  I'll leave an addendum to your file with the Watcher.  As long as you faithfully serve the Dhasha Tribunal seat, your zora shall not be tampered with on Koliinaat again.
"All because he privately funded the return of your zora...after he took it to keep you alive.  Saved your honor and your life by humiliating you enough that Prazeil and Aliphei didn't vote to execute you on the spot.  Sheltered you from your own demise, despite the fact you had arranged to kill him."
Rri'jan said nothing, still remembering the shock of that.
"And you serve his successor because your debt was so strong it had to pass to his son.  You loathe the job, but you do it anyway because Mekkval was so important to you."
"He gave me honor, after the Regency stripped it away," Rri'jan snapped.  "I owed him.  By the laws of Va'ga, I owed him a blood debt."
"And then you failed to serve out that debt, because he insisted on you staying behind when he went to kill the last of his loose ends on Earth."
Rri'jan remembered the humiliating footage of his master's scaleless, gagged form.  "I told him not to go after Rat."
"It's the one thing that I admire about you," Forgotten said.  "You spent twenty turns trying to find ways to kill him...then you ended up serving him."
"What do you want, Forgotten?"
"I want you to look at that young Jahul by the door."
They let a Jahul in here?  Surprised, Rri'jan looked, then frowned at the twitchy child that stood out amongst the Poenian priesthood like a vaghi amongst Ayhi...and yet none of the Ooreiki seemed to notice his intrusion.  The boy was nervously trying to look like he wasn't paying any attention to the conversation, but his twitching orifices gave away his interest.  "What about him?"
"His name is Kvebi."
"I don't recognize him."
"I promised him adventure," Forgotten said.  "Unfortunately, that was before I found myself with unexpected obligations."
"You mean the pregnant Human is going to deliver another monster, and you've agreed to care for it, in some lonely section of space where it's unlikely to kill people until it's grown."
Forgotten looked him over carefully.  "Again, I wonder how I survived so long, with you hating me so much."
"You were a...difficult target," Rri'jan admitted.  "I'd never met my match, before you.  The last time I 'killed' you, I was sure it was real."
"I know."  Forgotten continued to watch him solemnly.  "I have a favor to ask of you, Rri'jan."
Rr'jan considered Forgotten's face, then turned and squinted at the child.  "You want me to kill the boy because you can't bring yourself to do it with your newfound empathy?"
Forgotten laughed.  "No."  Shaking his head, he said, "Definitely not that."  Clearing his throat, looking him in the eye, and with a straight face, he said, "I want you to take him on an adventure.  Entertain him."
Rri'jan blinked at the Geuji.  "Say that again?  I don't believe I heard you right."
"He's very talented.  You'll enjoy him."
At the door, the Jahul started idly fiddling with a priceless Ooreiki yeeri sculpture, then accidentally tipped the ancient artwork off the shelf, where the white porcelain fell through his hasty fingers and crashed upon the dark granite floor and shattered into a thousand pieces.  The monks at their various stations throughout the library didn't even look up from their research.
Forgotten winced and turned back to Rri'jan.  "He's one of the most empathetic Jahul I've come across.  His sivvet rating is off the charts.  So much so that I feel he could empathize with even you."  Forgotten watched the boy a moment, then turned back to Rri'jan.  "He needs a protector.  Too many bad people would try to make use of his gifts, and the world is about to get very uncertain with the fall of Congress.  He'll need a mentor and bodyguard."
Rri'jan sputtered and almost lost his form.  "You have the nerve to—"
"What else are you going to do with your life, Rri'jan?" Forgotten demanded.  "After this conversation, you won't even remember I exist, and Kragkhen has already retired from the Regency.  The Huouyt would never embrace you again, and if you aren't careful, a Va'gan might take it upon himself to add the pattern of Rri'jan Ze'laa to his trophy room.  And you'll be crippled, as you put it.  Much like your illustrious brother, who is even now about to bring Aliphei to justice for his crimes against my people."
"I'm not babysitting a project of yours," Rri'jan snapped.
Forgotten smiled.  "You think I'm not aware of the Va'gan law of Survivor's Wish?"
Rri'jan froze, completely petrified.  "You can't."
"Rri'jan Ze'laa, of the Va'gan trade, I make a Survivor's Wish.  I met Death and looked Him in the eye, and Death decided to leave me.  I survived His caress, and I call upon you to pay the debt owed for wasting His time.  Here are my terms."
Rri'jan groaned and dropped his head to the table in misery.  He should have known that Forgotten would have somehow gotten has hands on texts that should have been exclusive only to Va'gans.
"First.  I have a young Jahul standing over by the door, the one I pointed out earlier."
"Noooo," Rri'jan moaned, slapping the table with an Ooreiki tentacle in a useless attempt to blot out the Geuji's terms.
Forgotten touched his tentacle and held it steady.  "You will take upon yourself the obligation I owe to him."
Rri'jan started beating his fleshy forehead against the table.
"All the while protecting and mentoring him."
"Just kiiiilll mee," Rri'jan complained into the tabletop.
Forgotten chuckled.  "Be grateful I only make one.  By all rights, I'm due many more." 
Rri'jan froze and jerked his head up.  "You wouldn't."
"How many times did you fail to kill me, Rri'jan?" Forgotten asked, grinning that fearsome Human smile.  "Isn't that...a favor for each time?"  He was smirking, now.  "I mean, I may be mis-remembering the texts, but as far as I know, it's been six times that you—"
"One favor," Rri'jan snapped, jabbing a tentacle at him.  "I'll give you one.  Then the debt is sealed, death paid his due, and I can go back to my life."
"Agreed.  My terms are that you will mentor and protect the boy until he dies."
Rri'jan stared at Forgotten until he decided he had misheard.  "Say that again...slowly?"
"I want you to take the boy under your tutelage and protection and show him adventure until he dies, as the favor you owe me for your repeated failures to kill me."
"Until the boy dies?" Rri'jan demanded.  "Just then?"
Forgotten nodded solemnly.
Very carefully, Rri'jan said, "I know you're not stupid."
Forgotten grinned and plucked the ancient Ooreiki scroll he had been reading out from in front of him.
"Just until the boy dies?"  Rri'jan had to repeat it again because he couldn't believe it.  "That will clear me of all debt?"
"Indeed."  Forgotten squinted at the scroll.  "Oh, this is interesting.  They made a poison that could melt Dhasha eyeballs from sockets?"
Rri'jan yanked the scroll back, glaring at Forgotten's obvious enjoyment of the situation.  "You realize he won't survive my care more than a week."
"Then you agree to my terms?" the Geuji asked.
Reluctantly, Rri'jan said, "It would be stupid not to."  The myriad of unsavory things that a failed Va'gan could be made to do for failing to kill were much, much less appealing than wandering around following a stinking Jahul child for a few hours until he died.
"Give me your oath and shake on it," Forgotten said, offering a hand.  When Rri'jan just stared at the limb, Forgotten added, "It's an Earth custom.  I'm trying to learn their ways so I can teach the boy when he comes."
Babysitters.  Two of the most dangerous minds in the universe, and the Geuji would turn them into minders of children.
Rri'jan took the Geuji's hand, not even bothering to try and poison him, knowing it wouldn't work.  "I give you my oath as a Va'gan that I will complete this task for you, as you've laid it out."
"Excellent," Forgotten said, giving it a firm shake.
Rri'jan continued to hold the Geuji's hand, scanning his face, unable to believe that was all he had to do.  "You don't actually think I'll mentor him until he dies naturally.  He will die tragically young."
The Geuji smiled and reached out to touch his forehead.  "Let your conscience decide."
#
"Aliphei of the Shadyi," Jer'ait Ze'laa intoned, "you are hereby under arrest for conspiracy to falsely imprison and suppress a sentient species with the intention of preventing citizenship, and conspiring to kill the Grand Six using a telepath you had wrongly attempted to brainwash into your personal assassin.  Your fellow co-conspirators have already been detained and their statements taken against you.  Your trial will be carried out by Verbhan of the Ooreiki and Daviin ga Vora, as you will not be allowed to vote in your own trial, and a concession that the Dhasha made to prevent their own starvation as a species was that they relinquished their seat to the Ooreiki for this vote."
The First Citizen, who had been sprawled upon a series of pillows in his chamber, allowing his Ueshi attendants to feed him the lavish meal made by Congress's finest Ooreiki chefs, paused in accepting a morsel.  For a long moment, it seemed as if the First Citizen hadn't heard him.
"Clearly your time in the Peacemakers just became very fleeting," Aliphei snorted around his massive black tusks.  He gestured to the Ueshi.  "Continue.  Ignore the cripple.  He oversteps his bounds."
"Watcher, add 'verbally threatening the life of the Peacemaster,' to the list of charges,' Jer'ait said calmly. 
Of course, Peacemaster.  The latest charge has been registered, along with documentation of the incident.
Aliphei sat up sharply, spilling his Ueshi servants away from him.
"Shall I add 'resisting arrest?'"  Even as Jer'ait spoke, a contingent of black-clad Peacemakers were filing into the room, weapons ready.
For much too long, the great Shadyi simply stared at him.  Then, slowly, his blue, lumbering form heaved itself from his pillows.  "I am the First Citizen, the sole survivor of the Founding of this great state, and you have no authority over me.  Watcher, remove this—"
"Your codes with the Watcher have been disabled, pending the results of the Trial," Jer'ait interrupted.  "Watcher, remove the accused to the Sanctuary so we may get him processed and in a suitable holding cell, in case he decides to use his vast resources to flee."
Aliphei blinked at him, red, beady eyes startled.  "I am not going to a cell."  As if the very idea stunned him.
"You are," Jer'ait said, motioning for his men to take him into custody.  As they started swarming around him, several of the Ueshi that had been grooming the Shadyi moved for hidden weapons.
"Watcher, remove all the First Citizen's attendants to a cell to determine if they are any known criminals or conspirators."
Of course, Peacemaster, the Watcher said.  A moment later, every Ueshi in the room disappeared.
Aliphei stared at him as Peacemasters disabled his arms and blunted his tusks.  "You're really doing this?  It's not a bluff?  An opening to extortion?"
"You're really going to prison," Jer'ait said.  "And, by the information that the Geuji provided us, it will be for a very, very long time, considering your interesting inability to age.  When did you genetically alter yourself to stop the turns of time, Aliphei?  I wasn't there, but wasn't that one of the founding principles of Congress?  No genetic alteration to a member species?  The Geuji assure us that the Shadyi—who, also coincidentally, all went extinct soon after you took the Representative seat for your species—were not originally incapable of aging."  Jer'ait cocked his head.  "So, I have a feeling several other charges will be added to the list, once my men's investigation of your finances, servants, and personal quarters progresses."
Aliphei said nothing, merely watched him with red eyes laced with fury, and Jer'ait's men escorted him from the room.
Once he was finished directing the remaining investigators on how to confiscate and catalogue each relevant file, using the Watcher to open the First Citizen's personal files with his Peacemaker overrides, Jer'ait changed to civilian attire and went to a quiet Jahul bar on the opposite side of the planet.
I just arrested the First Citizen, he thought, stunned.  And Aliphei would be convicted—it was a foregone conclusion.  Both Daviin ga Vora and Verbhan would have issued the vote immediately, had it not been for the growing mountain of evidence that Aliphei had orchestrated the plague that wiped out his own species...so that he could remain a Representative forever.
For that, the Jreet likely wouldn't allow him to be imprisoned.  The Sentinels had already made it clear that, if it were true, they would give him a coward's death—Daviin himself had said he would throw Aliphei in an arena and take turns with his kin strangling him, and anyone who tried to stop them would dance on their tek for the trouble.
Jer'ait ate his nutrient wafers, still stunned by the way things had been dissolving since the multi-species armada had fled Earth's system.  The Ooreiki had announced an end to the brutal maiming of vkala children in the Niish Ahymar, and earlier that day, Verhan had told him that once he voted to condemn Aliphei, the Ooreiki were walking away from Congress, refusing to ever take part in a Draft again.  The Jahul had already re-aligned themselves with Humanity, with the Trade Alliance becoming the main source of ruvmestin in the galaxy.  And the Dhasha, without their slaves, had become...meek.
In a few brief rotations, Congress had been crushed.
Jer'ait froze, remembering his old groundmate's handwritten note, the itemized list, with three of the four sections crossed off.
Watcher, get me a pen and parchment, Jer'ait said, shoving his bowl of wafers away.
Immediately, pen and parchment appeared on his table.  He closed his eyes, reviewing the memory of what Joe Dobbs had written.  Then he began to write.
1) While on Kophat, you will enter Congress into a new Age.
2) You will make friends with a Huouyt assassin, and at his command, a Jreet heir shall remove your still-beating heart from your chest and deliver it to strangers.
3) After a battle the likes of which the universe has never seen, you shall have the cosmos' greatest mind helpless under your boot, and your mercy shall unmake him.
4) And while you shall die in a cave, shamed and surrounded by dragon-slaying innocents, your deeds will crush the unbreakable, and your name will never be forgotten.
After Joe had disappeared on Earth, Jer'ait had assumed that it wasn't a true Fourfold Prophecy.  But now...
On the bar's main screen, Representative Genbiraa was making a call for all Ueshi in the military to return to their planets, just the latest in a long string of Representatives to announce a full recall on all military personnel, under the pretense of 'protecting their home planets from the Human threat,' but everyone knew they would never be coming back.  Already, Koliinaat was a ghost planet as most citizens with any sense had fled the primary target in any confrontation with Earth.
And while you shall die in a cave, shamed and surrounded by dragon-slaying innocents...
Jer'ait froze.  "Watcher, what is a dragon?  Human colloquialism, seven hundred turns ago."
"A winged fictional monster approximately the same size and shape as a female kreenit," the Watcher replied.  "One that similarly expelled fire from chemical pouches and had scales that were notoriously impermeable to physical projectiles, as well as a comparable extremely high intelligence."
Jer'ait stared at the list, stunned.  There had been three females to have been dropped on Earth.  The Huouyt had insisted on nine, but the Dhasha had rejected the proposal on the grounds that the Human race would be exterminated.
...your deeds will crush the unbreakable, and your name will never be forgotten.
"You were the one who kept the experiments alive, weren't you?" Jer'ait whispered, getting chills. 
His statisticians had calculated that it would have had to be a military veteran of Prime or higher, someone who had the money to bring advanced weaponry back to Earth, someone with the knowledge to kill kreenit, someone able to understand Human disease, someone with charisma, someone with the tenacity and stubbornness—and lack of self-regard—to work with mutants, someone with the leadership traits to gather and lead other military veterans against gangs and other aggressors, someone willing and able to fight and subdue Dhasha...
Joe Dobbs.
Very carefully, Jer'ait crossed the final item off his list.  He ordered a Human beer and left it on the table, pinning the parchment to the surface.  Then, with a slight smile and an inclination of his head, Jer'ait went to try to bring order to the mess his old friend had made.
#
(Author's note: That's the end of ZERO: Forgotten...  If you liked what you read, before you do anything else, please SIGN UP FOR MY MAILING LIST!  As an indie author, being able to connect with you is my single most powerful tool in staying competitive in today's publishing world, and your vote of confidence makes the difference between me being able to continue living my dream as a quirky independent author and me having to succumb to the soulless corporate nature of the traditional (read: risk-adverse and money-grubbing) publishing world.  I also routinely give away free books, have major sales, and offer beta-reading opportunities to fans on my mailing list.  Sign up here!
I am also VERY active on Facebook, and I love interacting with fans!  If Facebook is your thing, be sure to 'friend' me here:  https://www.facebook.com/kingfiction
I'm also on Patreon, and patrons always get first dibs on everything I write, plus they get the chance to make suggestions and get freebies/beta opportunities/chat with me that regular readers do not.  Come help support great character writing!
If you liked this book, please check out the first chapter of my other popular epic sci-fi series, Outer Bounds!  Most readers like Outer Bounds better than ZERO, just sayin'.
Or, even better, leave Forging Zero a review and aid in my glorious world takeover!
Also!  I'm prolific!  I have several other sci-fi/fantasy series that my fans like just as much as (if not more than) ZERO: 
Outer Bounds: Fortune's Rising (On an ancient alien graveyard where intelligence is a renewable resource, a ruthless child ignites an interstellar war to liberate her colony).
Sunny, with a Chance of Monsters (A former Alaskan EMT finds herself cursed, forgotten, and penniless.  With no hope and nothing to lose, she launches into a deadly game of cat-and-mouse with a dangerous man on the country's Most Wanted List, only to find out he's not a man at all).
Alaskan Fire (A six-foot-tall redhead escapes the chaos of the city by purchasing a fishing lodge in the Alaskan Bush, only to find out that her backwoods neighbors are straight out of myth and legend, and they've already 'claimed' the land she just bought...)
Alaskan Fang (A nineteen-year-old college student discovers she's a vampire...and that her psychotic parents have bequeathed her an ancient samurai as her first meal.)
Millennium Potion: Wings of Retribution.  (A group of career criminals and hunted fugitives band together to steal the cure for immortality.)
Chronicles of a Vampire Queen: Alaskan Fang (A fan described this as if Quentin Tarantino were to do urban fantasy.  Lots of action, adventure, violence, awesome characters in ridiculous situations, and generally crazy crap going down, set in Alaska.)
Thanks for reading!
-Sara King
-END-







Afterword
Congrats!  You made it through another book in a (very) large, sprawling sci-fi world.  More ZERO stories are coming out very soon, if they haven't already, and I will very likely write more novels than I've listed in this world, simply because I've been told to.  Repeatedly.  By people with that crazed, hungry look in their eyes.  (Shudder.)  Here are the current ZERO books, short stories, and additional materials that have been published or are currently in my (mind-numbingly overwhelming) queue:
The Legend of ZERO:  Forging Zero.  The story of how Joe Dobbs is captured from a devastated Earth and inducted into the Human Ground Force and trained to be a soldier for the alien army.
The Legend of ZERO: Zero Marked (Coming April 2022).  Joe and Rat have made it through PlanOps and are dismissed for their first R&R, but they didn't count on their groundmates getting kidnapped and needing a bail-out...or the assassins.  Also contains 4 worldbuilding short stories of the ZERO universe.
The Legend of ZERO: Mission Zero (Coming Summer 2022).  Joe's gotta earn his chops as a Small Commander doing a Congressional 81-Turn Census on an ancient Bagan planet of Blekk, in charge of a crappy station where none of the Congies want to be there and none of the tiny, glue-spitting insectoid aliens want them there.  What could go wrong?
The Legend of ZERO:  Zero Recall.  Fifty-three turns after Forging ZERO, Joe Dobbs is recalled to fight a war the likes of which Congress has never seen.
The Legend of ZERO: Flea, Agent of Chaos.  A rogue Trith is out to start a war, and there's only one bug who can bring him down—Flea, Agent of Chaos!
The Legend of ZERO:  Zero's Return.  20 turns after Zero faces off Forgotten in Zero Recall, he returns to Earth to fight a new kind of war—the kind that will determine the future of the Human race.
The Legend of ZERO:  The Scientist, the Rat, and the Assassin.  The universe's greatest assassin teams up with Earth's greatest mind in a kinky romantic adventure where Rat and Sam struggle to survive the apocalypse...and each other.
The Legend of ZERO:  Zero's Redemption (Coming Fall 2022).  An ancient conspiracy is threatening to tear apart Congress, and both the Jreet and Humanity are on the verge of extinction.  Can Joe save his friends Daviin and Twelve-A before Congress implodes?
The Legend of ZERO: Zero's Legacy (Coming Winter 2022).  After preserving Earth's most precious resource from the hands of the Huouyt, Joe and his friends must now work together to survive this new post-apocalyptic world—and find the People a home.
The Legend of ZERO:  Forgotten.  A Sacred Turn after Zero returns to Earth, his descendants seek out his ancient nemesis with a bargain Forgotten cannot resist:  Remove Earth from Congress without a single death, and Humans will give him his freedom.
The Complete ZERO WorldBuilder:  A complete(ly massive) glossary, fun facts, timeline, illustrations, and cool details that I couldn't pack into the books.  I'm collecting tons of art and details for this as the rest of the world builds up around it.  Check out my facebook page for the latest ZERO art!
The Moldy Dead: A story about the Origins of the Geuji, one of whom plays a dominant role in books 2 and 4.  The Moldy Dead is easily one of my best short stories.
World Glimpses:  An anthology containing two ZERO stories: Opening Night at the Naturals Preserve, story about Congress' discovery of the Baga, and  Planetside:  A fun story about how the Ueshi earned the right to fly.
The First Gods of Fire:  The story of how Congress was formed.
Breaking the Mold:  How the Geuji were betrayed by Congress (again).
Beda and Shael:  A Jreet love story, a la Romeo and Juliet.  Except this time, it's Vorans and Welus.  Yeah, sparks fly.  And blood.  And scales...
Parting Gift:  The Vanun struggle to escape the Huouyt, both of whom evolved on the same planet.  (Vanun on land, Huouyt in the sea).
Syuri:  Everybody loves lackeys.  Here's how Forgotten got his.  ☺
And keep your eyes open for more, as I will keep putting them up whenever I have time.  Just search "The Legend of ZERO" on Amazon.  Also, I know I've said this before (I repeat myself because few people actually believe me...but kick themselves afterwards) if you liked ZERO, you'd probably like Outer Bounds: Fortune's Rising and Millennium Potion: Wings of Retribution.  Like ZERO, they're both character sci-fi novels that'll rock your world, but for some reason they didn't win the popularity lottery.  (And we all know what a great indication of quality popularity is.)
And guys?  Thanks.  You are freakin' awesome.
-Sara King







About the Author

My name is Sara King and I'm going to change the world.
No, seriously.  I am.  And I need your help.  My goal is simple.  I want to champion, define, and spread character writing throughout the galaxy.  (Okay, maybe we can just start with Planet Earth.)  I want to take good writing out of the hands of the huge corporations who have had a stranglehold on the publishing industry for so long and reconnect it to the people (you) and what you really want.  I want to democratize writing as an art form.  Something that's always been controlled by an elite few who have (in my opinion) a different idea of what is 'good writing' than the rest of the world, and have been feeding the sci-fi audience over 50% crap for the last 40 years.
To assist me in my goals to take over the world (crap, did I say that out loud??), please leave a review for this book!  It's the first and easiest way for you guys to chip in and assist your friendly neighborhood writer-gal.  And believe me, every review helps otherwise unknown books like mine stand up against the likes of the Big Boys on an impersonal site like Amazon.
Also, I have an email!  (Totally surprising, I know.)  Use it!  (Don't you know that fanmail keeps writers going through those dark times when we run out of chocolate???)  I love posting letters on Facebook—gives me something fulfilling to do with my time.  ;)  Shoot me a line!  kingnovel@gmail.com
You can also SIGN UP FOR MY MAILING LIST!  Seriously, I give away free books, ask people to beta-read scenes and novels, and give updates on all the series I'm currently working on.  Stay informed!  ☺
And, for those of you who do the Facebook thing, check me out:  http://www.facebook.com/kingfiction (personal) or http://www.facebook.com/sknovel (my author page) or stay up to date on continuous new ZERO publications with The Legend of ZERO fan page:  http://www.facebook.com/legendofzero







Coming Soon from Sara King
(Look for these books to publish within the next 6 months...)
Guardians of the First Realm: Alaskan Fang
ZERO:  Zero's Redemption
ZERO:  Zero's Legacy
Outer Bounds: Fortune's Folly







Sneak Peek at Fortune's Rising
Chapter 1: Anna's War
6th of May, 3006
Yolk Factory 14
Fortune, Daytona 6 Cluster, Outer Bounds
The scream of the shift whistle tore through the military razor-wire and punctured the flimsy metal walls of the hut, startling Magali out of a dead sleep.  She braced herself on the cot, heart pounding even though she'd had twelve days to grow used to the gut-wrenching shriek.
Immediately following the shift whistle came the tinny thunder of soldiers walking down the rows of huts, pounding on the doors with their rifles in case the ear-shattering screech hadn't been enough for the eggers to drag their exhausted bodies out of their cots.
A soldier found their door and made a brief aluminum rumble before shouting, "Two minutes, folks.  Be out here.  Dressed and pissed."  Then she moved on, assaulting another egger's hut with her badge of office.
Magali hated them.
Aching from not enough sleep, she climbed out of her cot and pulled on yesterday's work clothes, still grungy and stiff with Shrieker slime from the day before.  Once dressed, she squatted quickly at the bucket in the corner.  Like most Yolk facilities, Yolk Factory 14 didn't have flushing toilets in the eggers' quarters.  They were lucky to have running water at all, considering the camp was little more than a bunch of metal huts haphazardly slapped together over the mile-wide hill of an ancient Shrieker mound, then surrounded by razor wire.  Magali's sister and their quiet Aquafer roommate had fresh clothes to wear, but only because they had lost two hours of sleep to wash them at the communal facilities the night before.
Magali, who had earned herself three hours of direct Shrieker care for mouthing off to one of the foremen, had been so exhausted from the Shriekers' constant proximity while feeding the beasts and checking their caves for ripening nodules that she hadn't even had the energy to eat when the foreman had finally released her that night.
Five more years of this, she thought.
Eggers didn't last five years.  They were lucky if they lasted one.  Getting chosen for the Shrieker mounds was a death sentence with no way out.
The United Space Coalition didn't care.
Shriekers produced Yolk.  A few drops of its concentrate could give even the slowest students a brief burst of high-level thinking and ultra-productive activity...an advanced society's dream.  For those who had the money to buy it, Yolk paid for its extravagant price tag with productivity heretofore unknown before the colonization of Fortune.  It made wise men out of fools, businessmen out of laborers, and orators out of bumpkins.
It also made dead men out of several hundred thousand healthy Fortuners every year, when their minds fell apart with Egger's Wide—the permanent wide-eyed, drooling look of those who had spent too much time with the Shriekers.
Fortune had been a prosperous, growing colony making its living scavenging alien artifacts from the Shrieker mounds right up until a government statistician found that Fortuners' mean IQ fell well outside reasonable bounds.  Subsequent studies found that Fortuners had more brainpower than the heart of the Coalition, which was pampered with every drug, technology, and procedure known to man.  More study revealed that this was not due to a genetic bottleneck created by a handful of particularly gifted original colonists, but rather their custom of augmenting their diet with Shrieker nodules when crops failed.
Once the scientists narrowed it down to the Shriekers, Fortune hadn't grown a soul in native population since.  The colony had been on the decline for over thirty years, broken only by the infusions of criminals that the Coalition sent them to keep the Yolk farms stable.
That, and the soldiers.
Grimacing as another rattled their door, Magali checked to see that Anna was ready, then hurried to the exit.  To go slow was to go without breakfast.
As soon as she yanked the door open and stopped in the cooler air of the threshold, Magali saw the Fortune Orbital hanging in the early morning sky like a blood-red star.  Beside it and lower on the horizon, the alien Void Ring drifted nearby, a partially-completed silver arc that shone with the same intensity as the moon.  With each day that passed, the half-moon of salvaged alien parts grew closer to a full circle as hordes of government engineers worked day and night to complete the massive structure.  Her sister had told her that in less than a year, the Ring would be functional, and the Coalition would start sending waves of troops through it to start a new government hub on Fortune.
Magali shuddered, fighting down a sudden tightness in her gut.  "Come on, Anna," she managed, glancing over her shoulder into the dim, too-hot interior of the tin shed.  "Get your eight-year-old butt out here."
"I'm eight years and a hundred and sixty-eight days old, so technically I'm nine, now."
"That Standard or Colonial?" Magali asked, only half listening.  The rest of her was still trying to shake off the unsettled feeling that she had been getting every morning since a Coalition work crew had dragged the ruined Void Ring into Fortune's orbit two months before.
Her younger sister snorted.  "Colonial."
Magali stepped into the two Size-9 slime-encrusted combat boots on the doorstep and laced them as she waited.  "Lazy.  It'd be easier to impress me with Standard."  She stood and tucked a clean rag into a pocket for cleanup later.  "Now hurry up, okay?"
Anna threw her clean gray coveralls over her slim body and took longer than necessary to tie her laces.  By the time she had followed Magali outside, most of the rest of the eggers were already in the morning formation.  "I'm only seven years and two hundred eighty five days old Standard," she said as she stepped into the sunlight.  She shielded her eyes as she squinted up at the Void Ring.  Magali saw her sister's face darken for just a moment before she pretended to yawn.  Turning back to Magali, Anna continued, "So it doesn't sound as impressive."
Magali laughed at her.  "You had to think about it, didn't you, Anna Banana?"
Anna scrunched her face and dropped her hand from the sky, giving Magali a dangerous scowl.  "Don't call me that."
"Okay, Banana.  I've got one for you."  Magali dragged her sister to the line of eggers gathering in the yard, then glanced down at her.  "How old am I, Standard?"
Anna's face immediately took on a bored look.  "I don't know."
Magali lifted her brow.  "Well figure it out."
"Can't."
Can't?  That gave Magali pause.  Anna hated to admit she couldn't figure something out.  As far as Anna was concerned, she could figure anything out.  In fact, the last time Anna had admitted she was unable to do something, Milar, Patrick, and Magali had all been digging through Aashaanti ruins while searching for unclaimed Shrieker tunnels to pilfer Yolk nodules, and just as they were nearing what they suspected was one of the biggest Shrieker networks they'd ever seen, Anna, back on their ship, had hesitantly radioed down to them that the area was unstable and she'd gone through the imaging results twice and she couldn't find a safe way down without bringing the entire mountain down on them, and they had approximately sixteen minutes to get out with their lives.
And as a possible Yolk source not in a stranglehold by either armed smugglers or the Coalition, Magali knew Anna had wanted their expedition to be successful more than anyone else on the mission.  But Milar had called it, and they'd climbed back to the surface, boarding their ship without even a single Aashaanti artifact to pay for their fuel.  Two and a half minutes later, the entire landscape for a two mile radius around them had dropped three feet straight down as the mountain had sunk in on itself, burying its priceless treasures—and potentially millions of Shriekers—forever.
Magali frowned down at Anna, trying to imagine why her sister would confess to being unable to do something as simple as calculate her age.  "What do you mean, you can't?"
"Can't," Anna said, watching the soldiers nudge the last few eggers into line with the butts of their rifles.
"Why not?" Magali demanded.
"Don't know when you were born," Anna said, shrugging.  "Never asked, since I know nobody's ever gonna need to write it down on anything other than your tombstone."
Magali squinted at her sister.  "Why's that?"
Anna shrugged.  "You'll figure it out."  When Magali continued to stare at her, Anna amended, "Eventually."  She started picking lint from her pristine, khaki-colored eggers' uniform.  Was it Magali's imagination, or was the damn thing pressed?  The perfectly starched, ever-present creases in her sister's garb made Magali wonder just who the little twit had blackmailed to do her laundry.
"Okay," Magali said, "I get it.  Because I'm never going to amount to anything, is that it?"
Her sister raised a very unimpressed brow and flicked a piece of lint.  "Bingo."
"You're punishing me for the Banana thing."
"I hate bananas."
"Would you rather I called you Anna Double-Patty Hamburger With Extra Mustard?"
"Sure."
"Okay, Anna Double Patty Hamburger With—"
"You are so annoying."  Her little sister glared at her.
"And you're so easy," Magali said, grinning as she ruffled Anna's hair.
Anna's scowl deepened, but her mouth twitched in a smile.
The Camp Director took that moment to clear her throat at the front of the formation.
"It's the cyborg," Anna muttered, her smile disappearing instantly.
"She's not a cyborg," Magali said, under her breath.
But it couldn't be far from the truth.  The woman was hairless, having neither head hair nor eyelashes or eyebrows, and the translucent layer of her outer skin glittered and flashed with the gold filaments buried beneath.  It was rumored in the camp that the Director was a former Coalition soldier, one of the super-humans that had crushed the last insurrection.
A Nephyr.
"Hello, ladies," the woman said, flicking a tadfly off of her glittering arm.  The thumb-sized bugs always seemed to swarm around the Director, even in the chill of morning.  "How are we doing today?"  Her voice held a tightness that could have been attributed to stress, or hating her life...or being a cyborg.  Magali frowned at the woman, trying to decide if her sister was right.
"Business as usual," the cyborg—Camp Director, Magali corrected herself—said.  "Yolk's coming due for harvest near the C-Block.  I want a team down there twenty-four-seven until it's ripe."
"It's twenty-two-seven, moron," Anna said.  Several of the eggers close enough to hear Anna's muttered comment chuckled, but Magali froze as the Camp Director's dull brown eyes flickered toward her sister.
"Excuse me?" the Camp Director said, turning to face their section of the formation.  Her skin glinted inhumanly in the morning rays.  "Did someone have a question?"
Anna dutifully raised her hand.
"Anna, don't," Magali hissed.
The Camp Director's face melted slightly.  "And what was your question, little one?"
"Are you a cy-borg?" Anna asked in a singsong, childish voice.
Magali could have throttled her.
"No," the Camp Director said.  Her eyes meandered back up to Magali, a darkness crossing over them.  "Who gave you that idea?"
"I read it in a book," Anna said.
"Oh?" the Camp Director said, glancing back at her sister.  In a pleased, patronizing voice, she said, "And what book might that have been, little one?"  Her tone added, Robby Robot Goes to Town?
"The Consolidated Galactic Encyclopedia," Anna replied.  "It said that 'a cyborg is a sentient combination of flesh and metal whose combined strength and utility is greater than that of an average natural fleshy creature of the same volume.'"
"Anna," Magali warned.
Anna grinned at the Camp Director.  "So I wanted to know what you call yourself, if not a cyborg."
The cyborg's eyes narrowed slightly, as if she were an exotic bird-keeper who was just beginning to realize that this particular parrot was actually a hawk in disguise.  "Excuse me?"
"But then again, your utility is pretty close to nil, from what I've seen of you sitting on your fat ass all the time, so I guess maybe you're not a cyborg after all.  I wonder if they have a word for 'lazy useless Coalition throwback' in that book I read."
"Anna!" Magali snapped, grabbing her sister's arm and shaking it.  All around them, eggers were snickering under their breath.
The Camp Director stared at her sister for some time before her eyes once again moved to Magali.  The Director's voice was deadly cold.  "Who taught her those lines?"
I hate you, Magali thought, glaring at her sister.  Then, straightening, she said to the Director, "I did, Ma'am."
"And you thought we wouldn't figure it out?" the Director demanded.  "You thought you could get away with teaching a seven-year-old something like that?"
"Yep," Anna said cheerfully.  "She taught me real good."
God I hate her.  "I'm sorry, Director," Magali babbled.  "I won't do it again."
To her surprise, the Director's face stretched in a smile.  "I like you, kid.  What's your name?"
"Magali," Anna gleefully offered up, smiling up at her as Magali's guts wrenched with the instinct to flee.
"Make her a foreman," the Director said to her ever-present assistant.  The lean, average-looking man—an AI, some said, though Magali didn't see it—nodded and made an adjustment on his handheld device.
Magali could only stare as the Director immediately went on with other business, swatting at her ever-present cloud of tadflies.  Anna nudged her in the side once the formation had been dismissed for breakfast.  "See?  Cool, huh?"
Magali blinked down at her little sister as they walked down the dusty path to the cafeteria.  "You did that on purpose, you shit?"
Anna scoffed.  "What, you think it was an accident?"  She snorted with disdain.  "You weren't getting enough sleep.  Got rings under your eyes, and you smell like dried Shrieker slime.  Figured you could at least start telling some dumb egger to clean your uniform for you so I don't have to smell it all night."
Magali grimaced at her sister.  "Someday," Magali said, still panting from the way her heart was pounding, "I'm going to give you a taste of your own medicine."
"No you won't," her sister snorted.
And, Magali knew, Anna was right.  Magali had nothing that could even compare to Anna's quirky, egotistical—sometimes even vicious—eight-year-old brain.  There was no comparison.  There was just...Anna.
"Besides," Anna said, yawning.  "The only thing you're good for is pulling a trigger, anyway."
Killer, Magali heard Wideman say again.  She cringed inside.  "Shut up, Anna.  I told you I don't wanna hear about that."
"What, still afraid you might be a robot?"
A robot who could hit a starlope from a mile off...with iron sights.  "I said shut up, Banana," she warned.  Magali knew she wasn't a robot.  During one of her more gloomy days, after another of Anna's taunts, she had cut open the bony part of her wrist, just to make sure.
Anna hit her in the arm.  "Don't call me a banana."
"Or...what?  You'll make it look like I insulted the Camp Director to her face?"
"You make it sound like she's better than us," Anna growled.  "We're not prisoners.  They just act like we are.  This is our planet, Magali.  We should kick 'em out and take the Void Ring for ourselves, before those bastards get reinforcements back from the Core and lock this place down like a penitentiary."
Magali quickly glanced around to see if anyone with a gun had heard.  Seeing no one, she grabbed her sister by the scruff of her neck and pulled her close.  Leaning down, she growled, "You can insult the Director all you want, make me look like an idiot, make me cover your ass for all your stupid stunts, call me a robot 'til your lips are blue, but don't you dare say stuff like that.  That's treason, Anna.  I don't care how old you are.  That'll get you handed over to the Nephyrs."
"You think I didn't check to see if someone was listening?" Anna demanded, her rust-brown eyes indignant.
"Did you?" Magali snapped.
Anna grunted and picked at lint.
"Anna!"
"I'm just a kid," Anna said.  "What could they do?"
"Kill you, for one," Magali said.  "They like to peel off skin, Anna."
"Then let them," Anna said.  "It'd be the last straw.  We'd start a rebellion and throw them off this planet once and for all."
"We wouldn't do anything," Magali said, shaking her little sister.  "You would be dead."
Anna shrugged.  "I'd hang around until I saw you knock 'em around a bit."
If there was one thing that disturbed Magali about her sister—aside from the cruel phases where every word that came out of Anna's mouth was a bone-deep insult—it was her apparent utter disregard for her own safety.  Death, to Anna, seemed like just an inconvenience.
Magali released her sister, glaring.  Saying nothing, she turned and went into the aluminum barn that served as their food hall and stood in one of the three lines.  They took their breakfast trays from the sour-faced server at the end of the line and, sitting down, Magali said, "I don't like it when you talk like that."
"I don't like it when you talk at all," Anna said.  "So we're even."
"Great."  Magali stared down at her eggs.  She took several breaths, focusing on the air in her lungs.  Then she looked up at Anna and said, "Someday you're gonna say one too many nasty things and I'm going to step back and really examine just why I care about you."
"Because you have to," Anna said, putting a gob of eggs into her mouth.
Magali stared at her sister.  "Have to?"  She slammed down her fork.  "Anna, there's no have to about it.  Plenty of people hate their siblings."
Anna gave a bored sigh.  "Not people who got their parents killed and now are trying to make up for it by being nice to the only blood relative that survived their stupidity."
For a long time, Magali was so shocked she could not speak.  Then, slowly, she got to her feet.
Anna continued to shovel eggs into her mouth, completely unconcerned.  It probably didn't even register to her that she had said something to hurt Magali's feelings—it never did.  With Anna, insults and compliments were one and the same.
Magali knew she should let it slide, like she had let every other jab slide over the years.  After all, Anna couldn't help herself.  She absolutely, categorically, could not help herself.
And yet, this time she'd gone too far.
Magali got up turned away from the table, leaving her eggs where they sat.
"Where you going?" Anna asked.
"Away," Magali said.  "I don't feel hungry anymore."
Anna glanced at the tray, genuinely confused.  "You didn't eat anything."
She doesn't get it, Magali thought, squeezing her fingers into fists.  She really doesn't get it.
Taking a deep breath, Magali forced herself to sit back down and pick up her fork.  Jabbing it into her eggs, she said, "What I don't get, Banana, is how you can manipulate people like the Director like it's easy, but you are completely clueless about other stuff."
"Like what?" Anna asked, around her eggs.
"Like what you just said to me just now.  It hurt a lot."
Anna shrugged.
Seeing it, Magali narrowed her eyes, but she kept prodding at her food.  "Do you do it on purpose?  Be mean on purpose?"
"I do everything on purpose."
Magali slammed her fork down again, this time hard enough to make the table shudder.  Every face in the cafeteria turned toward them when Magali shouted, "Did you accuse me of murdering our family on purpose, Anna?"
"You did murder them," Anna said.  "So what?"
Magali leaned close.  "You're the robot, Anna.  You've got a heart of goddamn stone."
"That's technically a golem."
Magali opened her mouth to scream, then stopped.  A slow smile spread over her face.
"What?" Anna asked, looking nervous, now.
"I just figured it out," Magali said.
"Figured what out?" her sister asked suspiciously.
"Why I don't kill you in your sleep," Magali said sweetly.  "I understand now."
"Really?  Why?"
Magali reached across to poke her sister in the chest.  "Anyone who can survive living with you without going mad or killing something is destined to go to heaven when it's all said and done."
"And the Easter Bunny is real, too."
"You bet your ass it is," Magali said.  She picked up her fork again and began shoving food into her mouth. "Better be, after what you put me through."
Anna watched her for some time before she said, "I really made you mad, didn't I?"
"Yep," Magali said, brusquely stabbing at more eggs.
"Why?" Anna asked.
"Why."  Magali contemplated trying to explain, then shrugged.  "Forget it.  Talking to you about emotions is like talking to a hamster about nuclear weapons."
"No it's not," Anna said, looking disgruntled.  "I understand them.  Just look at what happened with the Camp Director."
"You see their effects, but you don't know what it feels like.  It's all like pulling strings to you.  You can use them, twist them around to make people do stuff, but you don't understand them." Magali shoved her plate away and glared at her sister.  "There's a big diff."
"If it's all like pulling strings, why do I make you mad?" Anna asked.
"You got me there," Magali said.  "It's like you're trying to drive away your very last friend in the world."  Magali leaned forward.  "And for an eight-year-old, that's saying a lot.  Kids your age don't make grown men cry."
Immediately, Anna's face broke out into a smile.  "No, but it was fun."  Then, seeing Magali's glare, her little sister cleared her throat.  "I mean, that dumbass Parker should've learned how to stop stuttering before he was forty-five.  And that cranky old Darian Hold was mean to everybody anyway—I was just giving him a taste of his own medicine."
Magali glared.  "I was talking about my boyfriend."
"Oh."  Anna immediately took on a bored look and waved a dismissive hand.  "He had it coming."
Magali stared at her sister, the thought of reaching across and grabbing her by the neck and pounding her strawberry blond head into the table so vivid that her fingers twitched.  She tapped them against the wood to keep from placing them around her sister's throat.  Finally, she said, "We'd been dating four years.  He never even wrote me after that."
"Eh."  Anna shrugged.  "You're too good for him, anyway."
Magali lifted a brow.  "So you chase off my boyfriend so you can have me to yourself when you tear apart my ego?"
"Ego is just a construct of the mind, anyway," Anna said.  "I'm helping you to transcend."
Magali narrowed her eyes and lifted her fingers.  "You're this close to a beating."
"Probably the only thing you'd be good at—beating up a nine-year-old."
"You're eight."
"Nine."
"You're seven Standard," Magali countered.  "So just cut the crap, all right?"
"We're fifth-generation Fortuners.  The next time I hear you use Standard, I'm going to crush your tender feelings again.  Once BriarRabbit and I kick the soldiers out, there will only be Colonial anyway."
"Damn it, Anna!" Magali cried, glancing around the cafeteria.  They had two minutes left to their meal, and soldiers were already stepping in amongst the tables, getting ready to force them out for their first shift.  Seeing no one that had overheard, she grabbed her sister's hand and yanked her close.  "BriarRabbit?  What the Hell, Anna!  That sounds like a damn video game ID!  You think you're playing a game?"
"It's called a hacker's handle, and yes, this is a game."  Anna grinned.  "A fun one.  Like poker, but I've got all the cards."
Magali narrowed her eyes, not sure if Anna was screwing with her or being serious.  "Okay, listen up.  I don't care how smart you are.  You mention anything about this phantom underground uprising within hearing of those Coalition women and one of them is going to lock you up and throw away the key."
"It's not phantom," Anna said loudly.  She spread her arms wide to include the whole cafeteria and all of its tired-eyed, haggard-faced eggers.  "It's all around us.  One of these days, the Coalition is going to get what's coming to—"
Magali slapped her sister.
Anna touched her cheek and blinked back tears.
Jabbing a trembling finger at her younger sibling, Magali said, "Shut up.  You don't get it—Merciful Aanaho, I don't understand why you don't get it.  They will kill you, Anna.  They'll kill you deader than dinosaurs and then I'll be left all alone."  She swiped tears from her eyes.  "So just shut up.  All right?  I don't want to see you die, too.  You're all I've got."
Anna narrowed her eyes at her.  "Maybe you should've thought about that before you killed Mom."
Magali leapt to her feet, and for a second, both of them thought she would hit Anna again.  As Anna flinched back, however, Magali swung around and stalked from the room, pushing her way through startled eggers and soldiers alike.
Behind her, Anna laughed.
-END SNEAK PEEK-
Get Fortune's Rising on Amazon
CLICK HERE TO RETURN TO THE FRONT OF THE BOOK







Mini Glossary
(i.e. the So-You-Don't-Lose-Your-Mind Tiny Version)
--CONTAINS SPOILERS TO ZERO 1 & ZERO 2-
Glossary - Dhasha Terms
Glossary - Human Terms
Glossary - Huouyt Terms
Glossary - Jahul Terms
Glossary - Jreet Terms
Glossary - Ooreiki Terms
Glossary - Places
Glossary - Universal Terms
Glossary - Species
Glossary - Measurements
Glossary - Ranks
Dhasha-specific:
Itch (alternately: Bagan itch)- a nuisance/pain in the ass.  To add 'Bagan' to the front indicates it's a huge pain in the ass, as the Baga are known for their painful pranks, infuriating intelligence, and general gleeful sabotage when bored.
Ka-par (ka-par) - The predatory game of wills that older Dhasha play with worthy prey creatures or other ancient Dhasha.  A stare-down until one contestant submits. 
Ka-par inalt (ka-par in-alt) - 'I submit.' 
Ka-par rak'tal.  (ka-par rak*tal) - 'duel accepted.'  *is used to denote a guttural, back-of-throat, almost hacking sound.
Leafling - As the Dhasha are carnivores, as are their Takki and their greatest threats, 'leafling' is used to describe anyone who is utterly useless for anything but food.
Leafmunch - Used by the Dhasha to describe herbivores with disdain.  Generally indicates derogatorily peaceful and physically weak beings.  Alternately used with 'peacemunch.'
Mahid ka-par (ma-heed ka-par) - 'may it begin.'
Mothers - The four mythic beings who weave the lives of all creatures into a tapestry upon which the Trith can gaze.  Considered the Dhasha gods by many.
Peacemunch - See leafmunch. 
Slavesoul - Derisive word for anyone unworthy for anything but slavery.  A Very Bad insult, and when used on another warrior is cause for a fight to the death to appease the insulted party's honor.  Much worse than saying 'coward.'
Vahlin (vah-lin) - the legendary leader of the Dhasha, prophecized to be 'dark of body' and lead them to independence from tyranny.
Human-specific:
Ailo -  A derogatory word coined on Earth after it was conquered by Congressional forces, used to describe a person unlike oneself; i.e. an outsider.  Derived from 'alien' during the resentful days of the occupation.
Huouyt-specific:
Breja (bray-shjah) - the quarter-inch long, downy white cilia covering a Huouyt's entire body.  Extremely painful to be pulled or mutilated, as it is basically raw nerves.
Ze'laa - (zay-lah) - one of the most powerful Huouyt families in Congress.  Both Jer'ait Ze'laa, the current Peacemaster, and Rri'jan Ze'laa, the last Huouyt Representative, were from this wealthy family.
Zora (zoh-rah) - the red, wormlike, many-tentacled appendage that exits a Houyt's forehead.  Much like a fleshy form of coral in appearance when fully extended.  It is the zora that allows a Huouyt to digest and analyze genetic material to take a new pattern.
Jahul-specific:
Oozing furg - dumbass.  Someone who's young, stupid.
Sivvet (siv-et)- the sensory organs within a Jahul's head that allows it to sense the emotions of other sentient creatures.
Jreet-specific:
Beda's bones - used alternatively as a curse or exclamation of surprise.  Beda ga Vora, who was originally Beda ga Welu.  A great warrior who led Congressional forces in a heroic multi-species civil war, but who was abandoned by his own people for falling in love with a Voran, only to be saved and claimed by the Vorans as the only gray-scaled (Welu) clan-member in history, one who was eventually held in such high esteem that he was given breeding privileges.  (See Beda and Shael)  Considered the epitome of a Jreet warrior.
Skulker - one of the strongest insults in the Jreet vocabulary.  Suggests a creature too afraid to fight, one that hides in the shadows rather than facing his enemies.
Softling - Someone who is too weak or weak-willed to fight.  Another word for coward.
Tek (tehk) - the appendage sheathed within their chests that extrudes poison instantly deadly to any other species in Congress—but not Jreet.  Can produce several thousand lobes of pressure in a single strike.  The tek's sheath is also commonly used as a storage area for Jreet to carry things like credit stubs and ovi, usually in a leather carrying case.
Lesthar (less-tar)- the favored intoxicating drink of Voran Jreet.  Smells like burning tires.  Small sips will kill most other species.
Melaa (may-lah) - Large, blubbery herd animals that are a Jreet's favorite food item.
Ovi - the transparent, razor-sharp, glasslike knife that is used in every important Jreet ceremony.  If a Jreet dies and his body cannot be returned to his clan, it is expected that his tek be removed with his ovi and carried back to his clan for burial.
The Ninety Hells - The ninety levels of pain and unpleasantness that a Jreet warrior must pass through upon death in order to reach the afterlife.  (See The Legend of ZERO Additional Materials.)
Rravut - the poison extruded by a Jreet's tek.  The most powerful poison in Congress.  Causes instant death in all living creatures except other Jreet, who only get numbed or drunken from it.
The Black Jreet - The Jreet version of a prophet.  Considered by all Jreet to be sacred, an embodiment of one of the Sisters.  Only one is born or is in existence at a time, tekless, and she grows much faster than all other Jreet, becoming several times larger than the largest prince over the course of her lifetime.  She sees and interacts with the future in a shamanic manner.  Guarded by retinue of special/highly esteemed female Jreet warriors who agree to drop their teks in order to spare the Black Jreet from intrusion of any male presence/possibility of impregnation.
Ooreiki-specific:
Ash/soot - a disgusting, unclean substance
Asher - much like 'asshole,' but with an aggressive, fighting connotation
Ashsoul - the most extreme insult in the Ooreiki language.  Also translates to 'lost one'
Ashy - shitty/gross/disgusting/awful
Burn/burning - used much like Human fuck/fucking
Charhead - dumbass, someone stupid, alternatively: someone with an unclean/dirty mind
Furgsoot - bull, bullshit, horseshit, crap, yeah right
Niish Ahymar (nish ay-a-mar) - An Ooreiki ceremony to determine caste where a red-hot brand is pressed into a child's skin.  Vkala do not burn, and are then cast to onen.  The traditional Ooreiki ceremony of adulthood. 
Oorei (oo-ray) - the Ooreiki term for 'soul.'  It is the name of the crystalline sphere carried within every Ooreiki and removed by Poenian yeeri priests at their death.  Emotional/psychological experiences throughout life change color of crystal.  Considered to be the highest crime of Ooreiki society to harm an oorei.
Shenaal (She-nahl) - Mark of the Pure.  The burn left when Ooreiki niish are tested during the Niish Ahymar.
Sootbag - someone disgusting, unprepared, unequipped
Sooter - disgusting, unclean person; bastard
Sootwad - degrading, denotes disrespect, a useless person
Places:
Aez - the fallen Jreet clan of the Aez's destroyed homeworld.
Der'ru - a lush, sub-tropical Huouyt planet that rebelled on the 15thth Turn, 860th Age of the Jreet.  Joe fights there for two turns.
Jeelsiht - the staging-planet for the war on Neskfaat.
Kaleu - An Ueshi pleasure-planet known as a vacation destination.  Any request will be accommodated.
Koliinaat - The artificial planet conceived of by the Geuji and funded by the Ooreiki one and a half million turns ago, to celebrate the 100th Age of the Ooreiki.  Is the home of the Regency, the Tribunal, and the Sanctuary.  It is manned, in its entirety, by the artificial sentient life-form called the Watcher, also a Geuji construction, who conducts all Koliinaati affairs with supreme precision.
Levren - the Peacemaker planetary headquarters.  Also home of the Space Force Academy.
Rastari - A rebel planet where Joe fought Jikaln, Hebbut, and Dreit after giving up his Corps Directorship to return to the front lines in the mid 11th Turn, 860th Age of the Jreet.
Regency - The sphere-shaped center of Koliinaat, where all the Representatives of Congress gather to discuss new laws or political conflicts.
Sanctuary - The one area of Koliinaat—about the size of a large city block—where the Watcher has no effect.  Was claimed by Peacemakers almost immediately after Koliinaat's creation, though it was originally constructed as a place for delegations of non-members of Congress to gather to discuss treaties, trade, and other matters of diplomacy.  Since Congress has swallowed every society it has come across, unlike the intent of its original charter, there are no non-members to require separate quarters.
Telastus - Ueshi karwiq bulb planet where a minor Huouyt family took over control of government with lookalike Huouyt plants to skim profits.  Joe sent help remove the Huouyt for three turns, beginning the 21st Turn, 860th Age of the Jreet.
Torat - a Congressional Ground Force training planet.  It is where PlanOps trains its operatives.
Vora - The original Jreet homeworld.  Now home to the Voran clan, of crimson scale.
Welu - One of two Jreet worlds, due to Jreet reproduction rates being so low.  Home to the clan Welu, of gray scale.
Universal words:
Ekhta (ek-tuh) - Planet-killer.  The most destructive bomb in the Congressional arsenal, one of the many great inventions of the Geuji during the Age of Expansion.  Like all Geuji technology, the manufacture is so complex that it is un-reproducible by any other mind, and Congress simply follows the steps outlined by the Geuji to create it.  (For more info on the Geuji, check out 'The Moldy Dead' and 'Breaking the Mold' in The Legend of ZERO Additional Materials.)
Ferlii (fur-lee) - The massive alien, fungus-like growths covering Ooreiki planets whose reddish spores turn the sky purple.  Used as a unit of measurement:  One ferlii-length is similar to a human mile.
Forgotten - a mythical Geuji mastermind that roams the universe, the last of his kind to maintain his freedom.  Responsible for the fall of Aez, the Jreet rebellion of Neskfaat, and the Huouyt's banishment from the Tribunal.
Furg - A short, squat, very hairy alien that is as ugly as it is stupid.  A tool-user, but too primitive to use anything other than sharpened rocks.  Think a stocky, 2.5-foot-tall Neanderthal who breeds fast enough to replace numbers lost to stupidity.  Darwinian law does not apply.
Furgling - A younger version of a furg.  Shorter, hairier, and stupider than its parents.
Haauk (hawk) - skimmer, the floating platforms used as personal planetary transportation
Jenfurgling - One of the most blatantly stupid creatures in Congress.  An evolutionary offshoot of furgs arriving on an island where the population underwent a severe bottleneck and had no predators.  They delight in beating their hairy faces against the ground and playing with their own excrement.
Kasja (kas-jah) - Highest congressional war-medal.  Awarded to a very few, very highly esteemed.  Usually comes with a three million credit reward.
Kkee (ca-ca-ee) - yes
Kreenit (cree-nit) - massive scaly predators that evolved on the same planet as the Dhasha and share their monomolecular talons and energy-resistant scales, but not their intelligence.
Nkjan (naka-john) - war; also: "Evil"
Nkjanii (naka-john-ee-ay) - "Evildoer" - battlemaster
Non-sent - colloquial/shortened way to say non-sentient, usually used in a derogatory manner.
Oonnai (oon-nigh) - hello
Oora (oo-ra) - "Souled one" - sir
Peacemakers- the governmental, semi-military authorities who are autonomous in judging, monitoring, and policing the populace.  Their main task is to make sure nobody has seditious thoughts, symbol is an eight-pointed star with a planet balancing on each tip.  Their base planet is Levren, but they also maintain the Sanctuary on Koliinaat, which is the only place on the planet that is inaccessible to the Watcher.
Planetary Ops (also: PlanOps) - symbol is a single sphere, half red, half blue.  Tattoo is of a green, single-moon planet with a headcom, a PPU, and a species-generic plasma rifle leaning against the debris ring.  The tattoo glows slightly, a cell-by-cell gene modification that causes the tattooed skin to bio-luminesce.
Ruvmestin (ruv-meh-stihn) - A whitish, extremely heavy metal with a greater density than gold.  The most valuable metal in Congress.  Used in Geuji technologies, esp. nannites, like biosuits and spaceships.  Does not oxidize in air.  Mined on the government planets of Grakkas, Yeejor, and Pelipe.  Once ruvmestin is discovered on a planet, Congress immediately claims the planet for the common good, removing it from the Planetary Claims Board queue.
Sacred Turn - Time period.  666 turns.  819 human years.
Sentinel - the elite Jreet warriors who guard every Regency member.
Tribunal - The three members of the Regency chosen to represent and make judgments for the whole of Congress.  The Tribunal are the power-members of the Regency, usually occupied by members of the Grand Six.  Aliphei is First Citizen, and has maintained a seat on the Tribunal for the entire duration of Congress.  The symbol of the Tribunal is three red circles inside a silver ring, surrounded by eight blue circles formed into two sides facing off against each other. 
Vaghi - a small, nuisance pest-animal that eats and breeds uncontrollably.  Once introduced to a planet, the entire planet must be killed in order to remove them.  Which, unfortunately, is often necessary because the vaghi leave no vegetation or small animals behind.
Zahali (za-ha-li) - I'm sorry
Species:
Baga (Ba-guh)- Small, one-foot beetle-like fliers with iridescent green carapaces and faceted red eyes like a fly.  Have abbas, which are the glands that produce their infamous glue, a compound that instantly becomes whatever it touches.  Are afraid of miga, their natural predators, whose wings break the sound barrier with every stroke.  Can't count effectively beyond 6.
Bajna (Bajh-nah)- The 'bankers' of Congress.  Black, ten-legged spider-like creatures approximately eight feet wide at rest—twenty if stretched out—who are extraordinary good with numbers.
Dhasha (Dah-sha) - One of the Grand Six.  Very dangerous, violent beasts with indestructible metallic scales that shine with constantly-shifting iridescence.  Big, crystalline, oval green eyes, long black talons, stubby bodies, sharklike faces with triangular black teeth.  Their nostrils are set beside their eyes.  Females are golden instead of rainbow, males have two layers of scales, indestructible metallic on top, gold underneath.  Gutteral, snarling voice.  Laugh by clacking their teeth together.  Grow continuously throughout their lifetimes.
Geuji (Goy-gee)- a form of sentient mold whose entire body structure is composed of microscopic biological nanotubules capable of exchanging, storing, and processing information.  If allowed to grow, they are easily the most intelligent species in Congress, with computing capacity far exceeding every artificial machine built by Congressional minds.  Were the creative genius behind the ekhta, Congressional nannites, biosuits, and flowing-state ships.  Bodies are glossy black that ripple in the light as information is passed throughout.  Originated on Neskfaat, but were uprooted by Huouyt sabotage.  (See The Moldy Dead.)  Then imprisoned by Trith betrayal.  (See Breaking the Mold.)
Grekkon (Greh-kuhn) - a creature that looks like a gigantic brown jumping-spider, but with a bulbous rear that extrudes a substance that will immediately decay/dissolve any substance, including otherwise indestructible Dhasha scales.  As a species, do not have emotions.  A burrower by nature.
Hebbut (heb-uht) - large humanoids with lizard-like skin, small eyes, huge toothy mouths, and massive strength.  Think alien ogre.
Huouyt (sounds like: White) - One of the Grand Six.  Three-legged, ancestrally aquatic shape-shifters.  Bleed clear mucous.  Breja - downy white fluff covering body.  Tentacle legs and paddle-like arms.  Cylindrical torso, enormous, electric-blue eyes, and a triangular, squid-like head.  Zora - red, wormy gills in upper center of Huouyt heads that allow them to take the genetic patterns of another creature.  Huouyt have a bad reputation in Congress.  They are cunning, sneaky, adaptable, and excellent mimics.  Considered to be psychopathic by most species in Congress.
Jahul (Jah-hool)-  One of the Grand Six.  Sextuped empaths with greenish skin and a chemical defense system of releasing their own wastes over their skin when they are frightened or stressed.  Sivvet - the sensory organs that allow Jahul to feel emotions.
Jreet (Jreet) - One of the Grand Six.  Red, gray, or cream-colored serpentine warriors who guard the First Citizen and the Tribunal.  Have the ability to raise the energy level of their scales and disappear from the visible spectrum.  Use echolocation to see.  Have great concave depressions in the sides of their heads to focus sound, much like bat ears.  Believe in ninety hells for cowards, and that each soul splits into ninety different parts so they can experience all ninety hells at once.  Their rravut within their teks is the most powerful poison in Congress.  Bluish blood.  Short, engine-like shee-whomp battlecry.  Cream colored bellies.  Diamond-shaped head.  Tek- the talon protruding from their chests. 
Nansaba (nan-sah-bah)  - Sentient creatures with large black eyes, pointy ears, and four dexterous hands.  Smooth, almost lizardlike skin.  Highly prized as Dhasha slaves.
Ooreiki (Ooh-reh-kee) - One of the Grand Six.  Heavy aliens a lot like boneless gorillas.  Five hundred pounds on average.  Four tentacle fingers on each arm.  Big brown ostrich-egg sized snake-eyes, brown legs, skin turns splotchy when frightened.  Huge mouths.  Wrinkle their big faces to smile.  Grunting rattle of speech.  Five feet tall on average.  Laugh by making a guttural rapping sound in the base of their necks like a toad croaking.  Average age is 400.  Outnumber humans ten thousand to one.  Only the Ueshi are a more populous species. 
Shadyi (Shad-yee) - The species of the First Citizen, Aliphei.  There is only one surviving member of this species.  Shaggy blue alien, walks on four feet, elephant-sized, black tusks, red eyes.
Takki (Sounds like: Tacky) - The ancestral servants of the Dhasha.  Reviled throughout Congress as cowards and betrayers.  Purple scales, very dense bodies, upright humanoid lizards.  Crystalline, blue, ovoid eyes.
Trith (Trith) - Small, skinny-limbed, bulbous-headed aliens that see every aspect of the future all the time.  The 'grays' of early Human mythology.
Ueshi (Oo-eh-she) - One of the Grand Six.  Small blue or blue-green aliens with excellent reflexes and rubbery skin.  Aquatic ancestry.  Headcrest.
Measurements:
ST - Standard Turns 9 standard rotations (1.23 years, 448.875 Earth Days to a Standard Turn)
SR - Standard Rotation  36 standard days (49.875 Earth Days to a Standard Rotation)
SD - Standard Day 36 standard hours  (33.25 Earth Hours to a Standard Day)
SH - Standard Hour  72 standard tics (55.42 Earth Minutes to a Standard Hour)
St - Standard Tics (1.299 tics to an Earth Minute, .7698 Earth Minutes to a Standard Tic)
Standard Ninth-Dig (colloquially 'ninths') - approx. 1.3 inches
Standard Dig- approx. 1 foot
Standard Rod- approx. 9 feet
Standard Length -  approx. 4,000 feet
Standard March- approx. 9,999 rods (90,000 feet)
Standard Lobe- approx. 2.5 pounds
Ranks:
Multi-Specieal Galactic Corps - Prime Corps Director
18-unit Galactic Corps - Secondary Corps Director
3-unit Galactic Corps - Tertiary Corps Director
Single-Species Sector Corps -  _____(species) Corps Director  Single solid silver eight-pointed star with a solid black interior.
Sector Unit - Prime Overseer.  Silver eight-pointed star and four inner circles of a Prime Overseer
Solar Unit - Secondary Overseer.  Silver eight-pointed star and three inner circles of a Secondary Overseer
Planetary Unit - Tertiary Overseer
Force - Petty Overseer
Regiment (8,100)- Prime Commander - eight-pointed star  (In Planetary Ops, a Prime leads a single groundteam of 6 hand-picked soldiers, usually all battlemasters or above.)
Brigade (1800)- Secondary Commander - seven pointed star  (In Planetary Ops, a Secondary Commander is otherwise known as a Prime's 'Second.')
Battalion (900)- Tertiary Commander OR Secondary Commander -six pointed star OR 7-pointed star
Company (450)- Small Commander - five-pointed star
Platoon (90)-  Battlemaster - four-pointed star
Squad (18)- Squad leader (Squader) - triangle
Groundteam (6)- Ground Leader  - line
Grounder - point



