




 Think Faster 
 Learn Quicker 
 Get Smarter 
   
 A Practical Guide 
   
 Raza Imam 
 www.5xYourFocus.com










 
 Table of Contents 
 Get Your Free Cheat Sheet 
 Speaking and Training 
 Short and Sweet, No Fluff 
 Chapter 1: Read More (simple but powerful) 
 Chapter 2: Make MORE Mistakes (yes, more) 
 Chapter 3: Empathy and the Power of Learning From Other People's Mistakes 
 Chapter 4: The Ancient Technique of Controlled Breathing  
 Chapter 5: Lifting Weights and Running to Sharpen Your Brain 
 Chapter 6: Visualize Your Ideal Outcome (a smarter you) 
 Chapter 7: Pay Close Attention (focus on the little things) 
 Chapter 8: Learn How to Sell (to think faster) 
 Chapter 9: Learn How to Program (to learn quicker) 
 Chapter 10: How Writing Makes You Smarter 
 Chapter 11: Learn a New Language (activate more parts of your brain) 
 Chapter 12: Take More Naps (need I say more?) 
 Chapter 13: Eat Less (being overstuffed makes you stupid) 
 Chapter 14: Positive Self-Talk (talk to yourself like you're smart) 
 Chapter 15: Take Aggressive, Persistent Action (it's the only thing that matters) 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 










 
 Get Your Free Cheat Sheet 
   
 I really want to help you achieve your goals, and if you read this book and do the exercises for the next 30 days, you'll develop the focus and concentration you need to achieve your goals. 
 But if you want even faster results, then join my email newsletter where I reveal free tips, strategies, and hacks to build mental toughness and a high-performance mindset.  
 I'll also send you my free 1-page cheat sheet "60 Seconds of Focus" where you'll discover how to build unbreakable focus and concentration in as little as 60 seconds.  
 Go to my site to download your free 1-page cheat sheet: 
   
 www.5xYourFocus.com 
   
 










 
 Speaking and Training 
   
 If you're interested in me speaking at your organization please contact me at: 
 raza@5xyourfocus.com 
 Whether it's corporate execs, salespeople, entrepreneurs, rockstar programmers, first responders, or medical professionals, I can share these simple strategies to have them perform at their best. 
 My live presentation will show them how to harness the simple principles in this book so that they can unleash their inner champion so they sell more, lead better, and make a bigger impact than you ever thought possible.  
 I blend performance psychology and high-level accountability to help your team how to get "unstuck", achieve massive growth, and unleash their inner champion. 
 Interested? 
 Contact me at raza@5xYourFocus.com for more info. 
   
   
   
   
 










 
 Short and Sweet - No Fluff 
   
 "Give me a one-page bullet-list of exactly what I should do. That's worth more to me than a stack of books that I have to dig through to get to the good stuff. I may give you 50 bucks for the books. But I'll pay you $5,000 for the one page." 
   
 That's a quote from Alwyn Cosgrove, a world-famous strength coach and entrepreneur.  
   
 In this short book, I've given you some very simple and actionable exercises you can do to think faster, learn quicker, and get smarter.  
   
 This book is short, and that's for a reason. 
   
 It started as an answer to a question that I posted on Quora.com 
   
 My answer got 310,000 views and 1100 upvotes, so it really resonated with a lot of people 
   
 Here's a link if you want to check it out yourself 
   
 So I took that answer and made it the basis for this book.  
   
 I wanted to give you 100% actionable content, not a bunch of fluff and theory. 
   
 Sure I cite research and share practical examples to prove my point. 
   
 Yes I give you specific action items to do and explain why.   
   
 Of course I tell you exactly how to implement these steps to get the best results. 
   
 But I worked ruthlessly to keep this book short and sweet.  
 So remember to take action!










 
 Chapter 1: Read More (Simple, but Powerful) 
 I've always been a reader. 
 I remember my friends (playfully) teasing me about how much I read as far back as the 4th grade.  
 Not fiction though - mostly history, current events, philosophy, biographies, and culture. 
 I remember wanting to be a cardiologist as early as 3rd grade - and while that didn't work out (sorry Grandma!), I think I turned out ok. 
 Regardless, I remember getting a book about the human heart from the library and learning about the 4 chambers of the heart at such an early age.  
 My parents made me read a book on the history of optometry (yes, optometry in 4th grade!) 
 And to be honest, despite it being hard to understand, I kind of liked it.  
 Of course, I liked those "choose your own adventure" type of books also (who didn't?!?) 
 Needless to say, I loved books and I still feel that the respect for reading and knowledge in my family helped shape who I am today.  
 Though I'm no genius, I wholeheartedly believe in the power of reading to make humans smarter.  
 And it's not just a hunch, there are TONS of real life examples of smart, successful people reading vigorously. For example, Bill Gates makes it a personal mission to read at least 50 books a year. Likewise, other successful people, including Mark Cuban, Elon Musk, Oprah Winfrey, and Mark Zuckerberg all make an effort to read as much as they can. Clearly, these people know that reading is directly associated with success and intelligence. 
 In addition to there being TONS of anecdotal and experiential evidence, here is actual research behind the idea, it isn't just anecdotal pseudoscience. 
 In this first chapter, we'll delve into the science of exactly why and how reading makes you smarter.  
 Likewise, I'm going to give you tips for how to read effectively (you'd be surprised how few people know how to maximize the amount of information they get from books), tips on what kinds of books to read, and where to find them.  
 The Science of Reading 
 Time and time again scientific studies show that reading is directly associated with intelligence of all kinds.  
 For example, a 1993 study set out to refute claims that asserted that reading was "overrated." The study conclusively demonstrated that reading is directly associated with an increased vocabulary, verbal skills, and general knowledge. In other words, reading allows you to speak more fluently and allows you to draw on a larger number of words to make your point. Likewise, it directly increases the body of knowledge you have to draw upon. 
 Other studies support the connections between reading and increased intelligence. For example, a more recent 2013 study looked at the influence of reading on teenagers' cognitive abilities. The study found that those who read in their teenage years experienced a direct increase in their "VIQ" (verbal intelligence quotient). Likewise, those who didn't read during their teenage years experienced a direct decrease in their VIQ.  
 But is non-fiction exclusively responsible for these cognitive improvements? Turns out that there's been research on that too... 
 While reading about non-fiction subjects like history, politics, language, science, and philosophy definitely makes you smarter, you can still learn from fiction as well.  
 In fact, CNBC did an article on the value of reading fiction. After looking at several studies, they found that reading fiction increases one's emotional intelligence, which can have enormous value in the workplace and in day to day relationships.  
 Tech giant Elon Musk credits "The Lord of the Flies" with shaping his worldview and Mark Cuban talks about how "The Fountainhead" influenced his work ethic.  
 So yes, even reading fiction makes you smarter, increases emotional intelligence, and improves thinking.  
 How to Read 
 Most people know how to "read" in a very literal sense. They can make out the words on the page and they can read a book from cover to cover.  
 However, just being able to read the words on the page is not really enough; you need to be able to understand, memorize, and engage with what you are reading to get the most out of books. Most importantly, you need to be able to recall and apply the knowledge when you need it most.  
 Since most people could use some help with this, here are a couple of strategies I use to get the absolute most out of whatever it is that I am reading. 
 Identify Important Passages 
 Not everything that you read in a book is necessarily important. Very often books (especially non-fiction ones) contain interesting, but ultimately unimportant information.  
 When reading, learn to identify important information and try your best to commit it to memory by rereading it. The easiest way to identify important information is to ask yourself how the passage you are reading relates to the book's main idea or ideas. Also, "prereading" a paragraph, page, or chapter helps to introduce you to the broad concepts of the book.   
 For example, say you are reading a book on how to run a successful business by an important business owner. There may be passages about the business leaders' life. Those passages, while interesting, won't help you improve your own business. However, if you see a passage about how to invest to grow a business, then you know that is an important passage that should be reread.  
 Read With Purpose  
 While blind reading can be both fun and insightful, you should try to read with a purpose or a goal in mind. Think to yourself "I want to learn how to improve my business" and then structure your reading around that. Look for ideas in the book that will help you reach that goal.  
 By giving your subconscious mind a target, or goal, your reading will be much more focused and productive.  
 Engage With the Book 
 It may seem a bit odd, but engaging in a dialogue with what you are reading can be helpful. For example, if you read a passage, think about that passage for a moment. Ask yourself "where do I agree with this passage and where do I disagree with this passage?" I often find it helpful to pretend that I am explaining the passage to someone who has not read the book. This can help you both understand the passage and commit it to memory.  
 Like they say, when one teaches, two learn.  
 What Kind of Things to Read 
 You probably already know this, but it is worth repeating. In order to get the benefits from reading, you need to be reading not only books, but newspaper articles so you're up to date, and research articles. Magazine and newspaper articles are informative, timely, and are often written with an emphasis on getting to the point as quickly as possible, which makes them quite useful.  
 In terms of what kind of books you should read, you should aim for a healthy mix of fiction and non-fiction. Very often, you can find helpful lists of must read books on certain topics which can point you in the right direction. For example, Forbes puts out lists of must read business books. Likewise, people often put out personal reading lists. People such as Bill Gates regularly recommend books that they found inspiring or helpful.  
 Bottom Line: Read More (duh!) 
 Reading is the fastest way to learn new information. It builds focus and helps you link concepts together. It's critical to constantly read if you want to become smarter. 
 










 
 Chapter 2: Make More Mistakes (Yes, You Read That Right) 
 "We learn more from our mistakes than we do from our successes."  
 I remember the first time I self-published my book "The Science of Getting Ripped" - I thought I was going to be rich. 
 I hired a coach to help me write the book. Apparently, he had sold $1.2 million worth of his own fitness book back in the 2010. 
 He told me how he used Google advertising to promote his book, and how he would spend $100/day to promote the book and make like $500 in sales. 
 I was so excited. 
 So I paid him $800 to show me how to write the book, structure it, give it a killer title, and create a sales page to sell the book. 
 I launched the book to my email list, and I made $1000 that month, which was great. 
 Then I tried to advertise the book on Facebook and thought I was going to be rich. 
 I had spend hundreds of dollars on Facebook advertising, and only made $80. 
 Bummer :( 
 Then I tried getting Google traffic to my website, hoping people would buy my book that way. 
 I don't think I made any money.  
 Double bummer :( 
 But I kept trying and trying until I read a blog post from a guy that was making thousands of dollars per month selling his books on Amazon Kindle. 
 So I reached out to him, learned how he did it, and the rest is history. 
 I even ended up writing my own book called The Passive Income Playbook documenting how I made $20,000 from publishing bestselling books on Amazon Kindle.  
 I can honestly say, that even though my failures were painful and disappointing, they were invaluable because they showed me what works and what doesn't.  
 In a day and age where people demand instant gratification and unearned success, we have become accustomed to seeing success and mistakes as polar opposites.  
 The simple truth is that the two are bound together and inseparable. For any worthwhile endeavor from learning a language, to driving a car, to approaching a mate, to learning how to walk, it's really, really difficult to succeed at anything on your first try.  
 When things are hard, and you feel like giving up, it's helpful to step back and  remember that not only are failure and mistakes natural, they're CRUCIAL to growth.  
 Everyone from Bill Gates to Warren Buffet to Elon Musk to Larry Ellison to Albert Einstein to General George Patton, to Martin Luther King, to Michael Jordan, have all made mistakes - and have also learned from them. Just look at this phenomenal quote from arguably the greatest basketball player of all time, Michael Jordan: 
 "I've missed more than 9,000 shots in my career. I've lost almost 300 games. Twenty-six times, I've been trusted to take the game winning shot and missed. I've failed over and over and over again in my life. And that is why I succeed." 
 Instead of attempting make less mistakes in your life, it pays to be aggressive and make more  
 (yes, you read that right, make more mistakes).  
 The logic behind this is simple, if you learn from a mistake, then that is more valuable than a hundred successes where you don't learn anything.  
 In this chapter, I explain the science behind why making mistakes is helpful and explain how you should go about learning from your mistakes.   
 The Science of Learning From Mistakes 
 Learning from your mistakes sounds like good life advice, but very often good life advice isn't actually backed up by any sort of evidence.  
 But, there's solid evidence that shows the brain is actually aware of when it makes mistakes. A 2007 article talks about a study done in the United Kingdom to determine if our brains actually recognize mistakes. In the study, a group of people were asked to sit in front of computers and make a series of guesses in response to information that the researchers gave them. After their guesses were made, the researchers showed them new information, which proved their initial guesses wrong. The idea is that the participants would learn from their mistakes and make more correct guesses the second time. The researchers found that it only took milliseconds for the participants' brains to register that they had made a mistake. Within milliseconds of seeing the new information, the lower part of their brains had already begun working to inform the rest of their brain that they had made a mistake and that they should begin working to correct it. It sounds unreal, I know, but it is completely true. Your brain quickly recognizes when you have made a mistake and it is up to you to use that knowledge to begin thinking about how to correct your mistake.  
 But, before we move on, there is one more very important thing I need to talk about. Studies have found that there are roughly two distinct ways of responding to making mistakes, one helpful, and one not so helpful.  
 Psychology Today did a report on two studies dealing with how people reacted to mistakes, both of which reached roughly the same conclusion.  
 One way is by completely shutting down. When your brain does this, it is essentially treating the mistake as a threat. People who have this reaction end up ignoring the mistake and pretending as if it didn't happen at all.  
 The second and infinitely more helpful way that your brain can react is by treating the mistake as a problem that needs to be resolved. By reacting like this, your brain essentially works through the various ways you could respond to the mistake and avoid repeating it a second time around.  
 How to Learn From Mistakes 
 After the previous section you are likely thinking to yourself "how do I actually influence the way my brain responds to mistakes?"  
 That's the purpose of this section. I'm going to explain how you should react to mistakes and how to get the most out of them. By learning how to effectively respond to mistakes and by adopting the right attitude, you'll not only appear more intelligent to those around you, you will actually be more intelligent.  
 Adopt the right attitude 
 In order to learn from your mistakes, you need to be open to the fact that you can make them. No matter how good you are at something, you are still prone to making mistakes. Remember those studies I mentioned in the previous section? Well, in one of them, the participants were medical professionals; the study found that the medical professionals who had more experience were less likely to admit to making mistakes and were unwilling to learn from mistakes they did make.  
 Imagine if, instead of being a study, they had made mistakes while working patients and refused to acknowledge them, the results could be fatal. Don't fall into the same trap as these medical professionals, be willing to admit that you can make mistakes, even if you have twenty years of experience in your field.  
 As luminary author and marketer Sean D'Souza says, the reality is that talent is just the elimination of mistakes. That's why practice is so vital. Practice removes the pressure of having to be right all the time. 
 And the more we practice, the more we learn from our mistakes, until we eventually become masters at our craft. You know, the whole 10,000 hour rule? 
 In fact, D'Souza says: 
 "We see talent as something inborn. But it's not inborn at all. Anyone can learn to write headlines or draw cartoons, or do anything to an exceptional degreeâ€”if they make enough mistakes and proceed to eliminate the mistakes. 
 But how can you eliminate mistakes if you don't make them in the first place? The only way out of this trap is to have a system to make mistakes." 
 He even talks about airplane pilots and how they're trained to not only do things correctly, but how to recover from situations where things go horribly, horribly wrong. 
 In fact, my mom and step-father used to take flying lessons and they said that one of the drills the instructor did was to turn off the engine as the plane was flying - their job was to stabilize the plane as it was in free fall! 
 Talk about scary - but imagine the confidence and self-belief you'll have once you learn how to recover from a situation like that.  
 Don't Rush Past Mistakes 
 Often you hear people say things along the lines of "don't dwell on mistakes." While this has some merit, you shouldn't adopt such a happy-go-lucky attitude towards mistakes either.  
 It's true, you don't want to emotionally dwell on mistakes; meaning you don't want to beat yourself up, criticize yourself, view yourself as a failure, etc. because that will demotivate you from taking further action. 
 But you do want to intellectually dwell on mistakes; meaning you want to analyze them, figure out why they happened, what you learned from them, and how you can prevent them in the future.  
 Don't Be Afraid to Make Mistakes 
 Finally, let's return to the original idea of the chapter.  
 Making mistakes isn't bad. 
 As beloved painter Bob Ross used to say, "there are no mistakes, just happy accidents" 
 That playful, inquisitive, wondrous attitude is what makes champions, masters, and experts in any human endeavor. 
 The ability to learn from mistakes and failures is one of the greatest gifts we can give to ourselves because it's inherently a confident, aggressive, and productive attitude.  
 History is full of stories where people turned mistakes and accidents into fortunes. 
 3M was once trying to make a special type of glue - the glue wasn't sticky enough, so one of their engineers applied to paper, and that was the birth of the Post-It note.  
 The consequences of not making any mistakes are often far worse than the consequences of making mistakes. By making more mistakes and by learning from them, you will become more intelligent.  
 Bottom Line: Make More Mistakes (yes, you read that right) 
 I know this is counter-intuitive, but if you want to become smarter, how have to make more mistakes. Mistakes are the FASTEST way the brain learns. In fact, your brain hones in on the mistake and issues an "alert" to cause you to be more focused and deliberate so that you don't make it again. 
 Here's a perfect example; if you've ever accidentally walked into a pile of dog crap on the ground, your brain makes SURE that you never do that again 
   
 










 
 Chapter 3: Empathy and The Power of Learning From Other People's Mistakes  
 I remember the first time I flipped over the handlebars on my bike. 
 My dad used to warn me about not just using my front brake, he told me it was dangerous and that I could fly off my bike if I braked too hard. 
 Did I "understand" him? 
 Sure. 
 Did I believe him?  
 Of course. 
 Did I think it would happen to me? 
 Not so much... 
 Until it did. 
 But I learned something then - that no matter how much I "know" about a topic, unless I believe it through my own person experience, it will never truly change my behavior. 
 Same goes for adults today. 
 We all KNOW that texting and driving is dangerous. 
 There's a massive public safety campaign from billboards, to radio ads, to tv commercials, to laws, designed to tell people to stop texting and driving. 
 In fact, they say it's more dangerous than drinking and driving. 
 And yet, we all still do it because we think the consequences won't affect us. 
 Until we get a ticket - or a car accident.  
 The smart thing to do is to learn from the mistakes that other people have made so that we don't make the same ones.  
 In the last chapter, I presented a lot of evidence to show the value of making mistakes and learning from them.  
 This chapter is going to continue with that idea, but in a slightly different manner (as you can probably tell from the chapter title).  
 Mark Twain famously said,  
 "good judgment is the result of experience and the result of bad judgment."  
 While that is true, no one ever said it had to be your own experiences.  
 In the last chapter, I talked about why there is value in making your own mistakes. Now, I'm not saying to forget that. Instead, I'm simply pointing out that there a massive shortcut is when you learn from other's mistakes.  
 Remember what I said about emotionally dwelling on mistakes vs intellectually dwelling on them? 
 Mistakes are good because they trigger an emotion, be it fear, embarrassment, shame, frustration, or disappointment - the key is to use these emotions to trigger thought - not to dwell on them.  
 Once thought is triggered, we can intellectually dwell on them - meaning we can analyze why the mistake happened, what we could have done to prevent it, and how to handle similar situations in the future.  
 So learning from others' mistakes is so helpful because you can learn from their emotions. 
 For example, imagine you see someone walking down the street looking at their phone, and then you suddenly see them slam into a light pole.  
 I don't know about you, but if I saw that, it would trigger the emotions of embarrassment, making me cringe, feel bad for the person, and make sure that I don't make the same mistake. 
 In other words, by empathizing with the feelings of someone else, it triggers my analytical brain to make sure I don't make the same mistake in the future. 
 That's why empathy is so important - if you can empathize with the emotions of other people that have made mistakes, you'll trigger your own thought process. 
 Never laugh at other people's misfortunes - empathize and learn from them lest they happen to you.  
 In this chapter, we'll look at evidence that supports the idea that you can learn from other's mistakes.  
 Does learning from others actually help? 
 In chapter 2, I shared a lot of convincing evidence that indicated that yes, you do learn from your own mistakes. But science proves that we can learn just as effectively from other people's mistakes.  
 At all ages, people seem to benefit from seeing others fail before attempting a similar task.  
 A 2001 study looked at whether young toddlers were capable of learning from the mistakes of their peers. Two groups of toddlers were given the same task of solving a basic puzzle.  
 The first group of toddlers was shown the correct solution to the puzzle and asked to replicate it, only a few were able to do so.  
 The second group was shown a video of someone failing at the puzzle and then they were shown a follow-up video of someone succeeding at the puzzle. The success rate of the second group of toddlers was much higher. The takeaway here is that by seeing someone fail and be corrected, the second group of toddlers was better able to avoid making the same mistakes as the person in the video.  
 Compare that to the first group that was only shown a successful solution to the puzzle and thus had issues replicating it.  
 Here's another interesting study.  
 A group of researchers at Bristol University in Britain took a group of adults and had them play a simulation game against an AI. All the while, the researchers were monitoring the brain activity of the participants. The results showed that the parts of the brain responsible for learning were activated whenever they made a mistake or when they won, indicating that they were learning from those experiences. However, the study also showed that those same parts of their brain were also activated when their AI opponent made a mistake, indicating that they were also learning from their opponents' mistakes. 
 Anyone who has ever played anything competitive whether it's poker, chess, tennis, or video games will tell you that capitalizing on other people's mistakes often is the determining factor between victory and defeat. 
 How to Learn From Other's Mistakes? 
 Now that I have shown you proof that learning from other's mistakes is, in fact, helpful, the question becomes how to actually go about learning from others. It's more complicated than it initially seems. For example, you may be one of the only people in your immediate social circle to start their own business or something similar, and so you end up not having anyone to learn from. This is where an earlier chapter comes in. You will likely recall that in chapter 1 I talked about the importance of reading; that comes into play here.  
 Reading is one of the best ways to learn how to avoid the mistakes that have plagued so many others.  
 Read Biographies and Autobiographies 
 If you're looking to learn from other's mistakes, then the first place to start is by looking at biographies and autobiographies of famous people (business leaders, politicians, celebrities, etc.). History books are amazing for learning lessons from others mistakes as well - just read the history of Napoleon. 
 You'd be surprised how many famous figures often made horrible mistakes early on in their careers. Oprah Winfrey hosted several failed shows and had to significantly tweak her style to finally find success. In biographies and autobiographies, successful people open about the mistakes they have made in books - you get to see beyond the fame, fortune, and glamor - and see what mistakes they made along the way, and the valuable lessons they learned. All without you having to make them.  
 The examples of failure that you find in books may not apply directly to your situation, but the underlying lesson is applicable to almost anyone. For example, you'll probably never host a talk show. So, while Oprah's exact situation may not be relevant to most of you, you may take from her mistakes the value of being willing to change your approach to problems. This is a universal principle that you can apply to virtually every situation.  
 It is similar to the idea of reading things like The Art of War for business purposes. Even though it's a book meant for military strategy, the book contains useful principles that can be applied outside of the world of warfare - which is why it's a timeless classic, even thousands of years after it was written.   
 So to sum up, if you're struggling to find other people who have made mistakes that you can learn from, turn to books. This information, combined with the tips I gave you about reading in chapter 1, should enable you to learn about the mistakes others have made. More importantly, you can also learn how to avoid making mistakes of a similar nature.  
 Bottom Line: Learn From OTHER People's Mistakes  smarter than making your own mistakes) 
 This is an even BETTER way to get smarter. Don't make mistakes... learn from others. That's why reading is so important (history, biographies, etc. 
 










 
 Chapter 4: The Ancient Technique of Controlled Breathing (It's POWERFUL) 
 When I was a kid, I used to take kung fu.  
 Before every class, we used to go through 20 minutes of breathing exercises.  
 Sure, I wanted to learn how to punch and kick and do all that other fancy stuff. 
 But I loved the breathing exercises because I understood the power of breathing properly - it helped me feel more confident and in control - so when I did end up doing the more physical stuff, I felt a lot more capable. 
 I don't want to get all hippy on you, but breathing is so simple, and so powerful, and so effective, that it's easy to dismiss. 
 But I promise you, learning to control your breathing could actually make you smarter, think faster, and be more focused. It may sound far out and maybe even implausible, but trust me - it works.  
 The idea of controlled breathing is not a new one; in fact, it stretches back centuries. In this chapter, I'm going to introduce you to the idea of controlled breathing, explain the benefits of it, and finally, I'll explain the best way to go about learning how to control your breathing. 
 What is Controlled Breathing 
 The name alone gives away what controlled breathing is, but it doesn't paint a complete picture. Controlled breathing is ancient, Eastern technique. Buddhists have been using it for centuries to help focus their mind and to help combat stress (which as most of you know can cause numerous health issues if not dealt with).  
 The entire point is to concentrate on your breathing in order to clear your mind and allow it to focus. The Buddhist practice of "Anapanasati" (which roughly translates to "mindful breathing") has been attested to in Buddhist texts for centuries. So, this technique not only has a lot of history behind it, it has a ton of science to back it up. There's a lot of Eastern medicine that isn't necessarily backed by science (yet), but that isn't the case with controlled breathing.  
 If you're familiar with things like mindfulness or yoga, then you're familiar with the idea behind controlled breathing (it's also worth noting that controlled breathing is an important part of both mindfulness and yoga). All these things are meant to clear your mind of distractions, anxiety, and stress. 
 If you're relaxed, calm, and confident, you're more likely to learn faster, think quicker, and make better decisions. 
 The Benefits of Controlled Breathing 
 If you're skeptical that controlled breathing can actually make you smarter, then read on. Trust me when I say that there are real benefits associated with controlled breathing, especially when it comes to helping make you smarter.  
 The British based paper, The Telegraph, actually published an article on the benefits of controlled breathing and how it can make people more intelligent. They cited a study done in the United Kingdom to back up this idea. In the study, a group of people were taught how to do controlled breathing properly. The researchers then gave the participants two tests, one test they took while doing controlled breathing, and the other they did normally. The results showed that the participants actually did better on the test when they took it while practicing controlled breathing.  
 Of course, you may be wondering why exactly this happened. The answer is actually surprisingly simple when you think about it. The regular infusion of oxygen into the brain helps keep it healthy and focused. In fact, as the researchers found in the course of their study, controlled breathing triggers increased activity in the parts of the brain that are responsible for things like memory recall. This is obviously very helpful, especially in test situations.  
 Another dimension to consider is stress relief. Plenty of people are incredibly intelligent, and yet when put into a stressful situation they struggle. Think back to your days in high school, college, or university, you probably knew plenty of people who were intelligent outside of test situations. But, put them in front of a test and suddenly the stress clouds their mind and they forget crucial information. Stress can actively make you seem less intelligent and it can interfere with your ability to recall information. Since controlled breathing can help you manage stress, it can actually help you remember important information when it matters most.  
 How to Practice Controlled Breathing 
 On paper, controlled breathing seems easy, right? After all, it's  just breathing deeply and then exhaling, what could be easier? The reality is that controlled breathing is a lot more difficult than it initially seems. But, don't worry because I'm here to help. In this section, we're going to look at how exactly do controlled breathing properly.  
 First, start by blocking out everything else around you. Either move to a quiet room, or if you don't have one, close your eyes and try your best to filter out background noise. Once that's done, focus as hard as you can on the act of breathing in and then breathing out. People familiar with mindfulness training are often told to imagine things like their chest going in and out to help them relax and focus; if you find that that helps, go ahead and do it. Also, when you breathe in, make sure to hold it for a few seconds (most people hold until the count of three).  
 Make sure that you're breathing in through your nose and out through your mouth. A lot of people have a tendency to breathe through their mouths when taking deep breaths, but this is the wrong way to do it. In fact, the study I mentioned in the previous section specifically notes that breathing through your mouth doesn't stimulate the brain like breathing through your nose does.  
 Another important point to stress is the need to be sitting straight while breathing. You can't be lying down or slouching while doing this. You need to either sit up straight or stand up completely. This ensures that your lungs are not compressed at all and can intake the most amount of air.  
 So, now you know the secret of controlled breathing. It may not seem like something major. But, the evidence shows that it does indeed help your brain function better.  
 So take just 2 minutes out of your busy day to practice breathing deeply, purposefully, and intentionally - I promise you'll feel more relaxed, more confident, more focused, and even more happy from this simple exercise. These combined feelings of confidence and focus will manifest themselves in improved memory and the ability to think faster.  
 Bottom Line: Learn to Control Your Breathing - It's a POWERFUL Ancient Technique 
 Your breath delivers oxygen to your blood, which in turn nourishes your brain. If you want a healthy, nourished, relaxed brain, then learn to breathe deeply, calmly, and purposefully.  
 It will make you smarter. 
   
 










 
 Chapter 5: Lifting Weights and Running Fast to Sharpen Your Brain 
 I wasn't the most athletic kid growing up, but I did love doing body weight exercises. 
 Pushups, pullups, and dips - and I loved them. 
 I still do. 
 Everytime I work out intensely, whether it's weight training, body weight exercises, sprinting, or running up the stairs in the 25-story high-rise that I live in, I feel a sense of power and confidence afterwards. I feel a sense of unstoppability and dominance; a feeling of accomplishment and pride. 
 And when I apply these feelings to a difficult task, the task seems easier. Whether it's writing a new book, launching a new website, working with a new client, or even doing handiwork around the house. 
 The feelings of confidence and accomplishment help me draw upon an internal energy that was lying dormant until I activated it through physical activity.   
 Of course, regular exercise is necessary to keep your body in good shape and prevent health issues. But, there's a growing body of research proving that physical exercise is not just good for your body, but also good for your mind. Most people who exercise regularly don't know it, but they are actually greatly improving their cognitive ability. 
 Often times, the stereotypical meathead is just that - a stereotype.   
 Scientists have discovered a very strong link between physical improvement through exercise and mental improvement. As you probably guessed from the chapter title, this is going to be the focus of this chapter. I'm going to tell you all about the interesting science behind why exercise makes you smarter.  
 Exercising and Intelligence, What's the Link? 
 Exercise to make you smarter? Sounds a bit far-fetched I'm sure.  
 But it makes perfect sense when you consider all the facts. There are a couple of very good reasons why exercising makes you smarter. In this section, I am going to go over each of the various reasons and give you a more in-depth explanation.  
 Irisin 
 I'd never heard of this hormone before and would bet good money that most of my readers have never heard of the hormone called irisin either. After all, it is a very obscure hormone that doesn't get much media coverage (unlike testosterone, growth hormone, etc).  
 Your body produces irisin (among many other hormones) when you exercise. More specifically, vigorous exercise like sprinting, endurance, and weightlifting exercises seem to encourage the body to produce this little-known hormone. So, why is this relevant to becoming smarter? Well, scientists have been doing studies involving this hormone and have found that it can help increase your body's production of BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor). BNDF is a protein that essentially acts as a stimulant for your brain that improves cognitive function. In one particular study, scientists injected mice directly with irisin. Those mice that had increased levels of irisin in their circulatory system had higher levels of BDNF compared to those mice didn't receive injections. Of course, results in mice don't always correlate to humans, but there's more evidence that rigorous physical activity improves thinking and cognitive abilities.  
 While that is one definite reason why exercise can make you smarter, there are other reasons to consider as well. In fact, Jennifer Cohen, a fitness expert who advises companies on how to use fitness to improve productivity, wrote an article in Forbes that details the various ways that regular exercise can help boost intelligence and productivity. She cites increased energy, improved mood, sharpened focus, better impulse control, improved memory, and greater productivity as the benefits of working out.  
 It Reduces Depression, Stress, and Anxiety  
 Like Ben Affleck's character from Boiler Room said to a room full of salespeople: 
 Get on the phones, it's time to get to work. Get off your ass! Move around. Motion creates emotion 
 Any doctor or mental health professional (or sales person for that matter) will tell you, getting regular exercise is one of the best methods for fighting mental health issues such as stress, anxiety, and depression. Exercise promotes the creation of hormones, such as serotonin, which help fight back against these mental health issues.  
 Conditions like depression and excessive stress can actively wear on your thinking ability and make you less intelligent. For example, have you ever tried to take a test or remember important information while being very stressed out? If you haven't, believe me when I say that it is extremely difficult. Mental health issues like depression have negative effects on the brain and actively worsen your cognitive performance. So, by helping to alleviate stress and anxiety, exercise is directly improving your cognitive functions, which then makes you smarter.   
 Exercise Gives You More Energy 
 You might think that regular exercise would leave you feeling more tired, but that is only true in the short-term. In the long-term, regular exercise has an extremely positive effect on your energy levels. This is because your brain senses that you require more energy and directs the rest of your body to begin producing more energy. On the other hand, if you live a sedentary lifestyle, the brain directs the rest of your body to produce less energy because the brain recognizes that your brain doesn't need as much energy.  
 I'm sure you can see how this would have a massive impact on your ability to think quicker and learn faster. Having less energy means you can't devote as much energy to reading, learning, or critical thinking. If you want to test this, try doing some logic puzzles (or something else designed to test intelligence) early in the day when you are fresh; make sure you record your score. Do a similar test later on in the day after you have used up all your energy and record your score. For most people, their score will get worse because they lack energy, which negatively affects their cognitive abilities. Having more energy will allow your brain to function at a higher level for a longer period of time, which in turn will lead to you becoming smarter.  
 Improved Oxygen and Flow 
 In chapter 4 I talked about how breathing techniques can make you more intelligent. Breathing techniques make you smarter because they allow more oxygen to reach your brain, which invigorates it. The same idea is true for exercise. Regular exercise leads to more blood flowing to your brain; since blood is what carries oxygen to the various parts of your body, this means that your brain is also receiving more oxygen by default.  
 Increased Motivation 
 Exercise has a positive effect on your motivation. In a later chapter in this book, I will deal with how positivity can boost cognitive performance. I will tell you now, however, that feeling good about yourself and feeling as if you can accomplish anything does have a noticeable boost in cognitive performance. It is well known in scientific circles that exercising makes you feel better about yourself. This added self-confidence does translate into improved cognitive performance.  
 Bottom Line: Lift Weights and Sprint (sharpens your body AND brain) 
 Exercise, even walking, delivers more oxygen to your brain. It also produces a flood of hormones in your body that lower stress, burn fat, and increase muscle growth. Bottom line, exercise boosts memory, learning ability, focus, concentration, and comprehension. 
 










 
 Chapter 6: Visualize Your Ideal Outcome (Imagine Being Smarter) 
 I used to have a software development business with a partner of mine. 
 He was responsible for doing the work, and I was responsible for finding customers. 
 We struggled to find customers in the beginning. I would cold call companies, send them emails, and try to convince them to work with us. 
 And it wasn't working all that well for us. 
 But then I started reading about visualization. 
 I admit, it sounded hokey and woo-woo, but when I read the book Psycho-Cybernetics by Dr. Maxwell Maltz, it really hit home.  
 I won't go into the details of the book, but I did start doing what he said - which is to start imaging the person that you want to be, the goal you want to achieve, or the skill you want to acquire. 
 The premise is that through the power of self-image, your subconscious mind will help you acquire the object you desire - but you have to see yourself as the kind of person that's worthy of it.  
 So I would sit quietly at night and just imagine having a lot of clients. I would imagine customers contacting me. I would imagine meeting people and having them turn into customers.  
 I know it sounds too good to be true, but just a week after doing that, I started getting clients. 
 I would make phone calls and people would be open to meeting with me. I would go to networking events and people randomly wanted to do business with me. I even got referrals from past customers. 
 Am I saying that visualization is magic? 
 Of course not. 
 What I am saying is that imagining and visualizing myself as someone that had more customers caused me to feel more confident. It also caused me to think differently. I thought about how someone that has a lot of customers would actually get them. What did they say? Who did they talk to? Where did they go to find customers?  
 By simply imagining myself as successful and visualizing myself as being successful, I unlocked an entirely new approach, and started going to networking events to find clients rather than uselessly cold-calling them.  
 Even as I write this book, I'm visualizing how I would need to act to make it a bestseller. 
 How I would need to title it, how I would need to promote it, how the cover should look. 
 And by doing this simple process, I realized that I need to add more stories to my book. 
 I need to make it more lively and personal. 
 I need to create a simple, stunning, visually engaging cover.  
 I need to give it a clear, intriguing title. 
 And with your help, this book will become a wildly successful bestseller!  
 But this isn't just my own personal experience.  
 There's a famous story about Jim Carrey that goes like this; Jim Carrey had a rough start to his career, he had trouble getting consistent work. To give himself a mental boost, he wrote himself a check for $10 million dollars, which he proceeded to keep in his wallet. He constantly told himself that he would make a $10 million-dollar payday eventually, and the check acted as a reminder of that motivation. Eventually, he was proven right, when he earned a $10 million-dollar payday for his movies Dumb and Dumber and Ace Ventura.  
 What does this have to do with getting smarter, thinking faster, and making better decisions? 
 It helps convey the impressive power of visualization.When you visualize yourself being smarter, you feel smarter. When you feel smarter, you act smarter.  
 In this chapter, I'll tell you about the impressive science behind visualization, as well as how to visualize yourself as being smarter.  
 The Secret of Visualization  
 There is a reason why so many Hollywood stars, businesspeople, athletes, and elite military personnel credit visualization with being so important to their success; it's because it works. Bear in mind, this isn't new age pseudoscience, it's scientific fact.   
 A doctor with an M.D. from Harvard named Srinivasan Pillay wrote a book called Your Brain and Business: The Neuroscience of Great Leaders. In his book, he talked about the interesting fact that when you visualize something, it stimulates the exact same parts of your brain that would be stimulated if you actually did whatever it is that you visualized. There is other evidence to back up this idea.  
 For example, take this article, which cites a study that found that weightlifters who visualized lifting weights created the same brain patterns as those who actually lifted weights.  
 Now, think about that in relation to becoming smarter. We know from previous chapters in this book that becoming "more intelligent" is a simple way of talking improving various cognitive functions, such as memory, knowledge, critical thinking, etc. So, if you actually visualize yourself as being smarter, then you will actually end up stimulating the parts of your brain that control these things.  
 There is also a morale aspect to consider as well. When you visualize yourself being successful, smarter, etc., it actively motivates you to do better. This can result in actual, tangible improvements.  
 To give you a good example of this, let's look to a Business Insider article. The article talks about a very famous study concerning four groups of Olympic athletes. All four groups were American. The first group had a training regimen that consisted entirely of physical training. Groups two and three had a mixture of physical and mental training (visualization techniques were included in this mental training), but with more time devoted to physical training. Finally, the fourth group was the only one to have more time devoted to mental training and visualization techniques than to physical training. I'm sure you can guess where I am going with this, the fourth group had the best overall athletic performance.  
 This speaks to the impressive powers of visualization. It motivates you to perform better, to think better, and just do everything better. Just imagine combining the powers of visualization with other strategies that I have covered in this book.  
 For example, think back to one of the earliest chapters in this book, chapter 1, where I covered the connection between reading more and increased intelligence. For some, reading more books may be difficult. They may not have the energy after getting home after a long day to start reading, or they may not be able to force themselves to read books out of a simple dislike of reading. This is where something visualization would come in handy. Through visualization tactics, you can motivate yourself to read more, thereby making yourself smarter.  
 How to Actually Visualize Things 
 So far, I have talked a lot about the benefits of visualization, without actually explaining how to go about doing it.  Visualization is pretty simple, but you have to know what to do. Once you know how to visualize properly, it becomes easy to do it over and over again.  
 Aristotle, the famous Greek philosopher, actually outlined the steps for how to visualize success well over 2000 years ago. Here are the three steps to visualization.  
 Step One: Have a Clear Goal 
 Firstly, you need to have something that you want to strive towards. If you are reading this book, then chances are that you want to make yourself smarter. Why you want to reach that goal is irrelevant, all that matters is that you have a goal set. 
 Step Two: Think About What You Need to Achieve This Goal 
 Once you have a clear goal in mind, you can start thinking about what exactly it is that you need to achieve this goal.  
 For example, if you want to make yourself smarter, you could think about the various strategies in this book (you could one particular one to focus on, or a group of them). For the sake of example, let's stick with reading. So, you would think about your goal (getting smarter) and think about what you need to achieve that goal (reading more). 
 When I visualize, I like to imagine that I'm stepping into the body of someone that has already achieved the goal that I want to achieve.  
 I look at the world through their eyes. 
 I talk to myself like they talk to themselves. 
 I think like they would think. 
 And I imagine myself taking the same actions that they would take.  
 Doing this allows me to detach from my own emotions of fear, doubt, and worry.  
 By imagining that I'm in the body of someone that's already successful at what I want to do, I'm able to draw upon their strength, power, and confidence.  
 Step Three: Put Everything Towards Achieving Your Goal 
 Finally, you need to visualize the actual physical and mental action needed to complete your goal. So, in our example, you would think about reading constantly, you would think constantly about how to get more reading time in. All the while you would be thinking about how good it will feel when you finally do read a book from cover to cover; and how good it will feel when you realize that you are that much smarter for having read it.  
 Bottom Line - Visualize Your Ideal Outcome (imagine being smarter):  
 The smartest people in the world visualize what they want before it comes into existence. They visualize what they need to do to make it happen. They visualize the steps they took. They visualize the obstacles they faced. So you need to learn to visualize your ideal outcome - because it works.  
   
 










 
 Chapter 7: Pay Attention (Focus On The Little Things) 
 Simply paying attention is an underestimated way to build intelligence.  
 In my last book, The Passive Income Playbook, I paid dearly for NOT doing that. 
 I wrote the book in a month and was really passionate about showing people how to earn passive income. 
 I told my personal story. 
 I shared my failures. 
 I cut out a lot of fluff and wrote from the heart. 
 What I failed to do was pay attention to detail - so I released the book with a few typos and grammatical errors. 
 And while the book has nearly 130 reviews, and a 4.5 star overall rating, I got some very blunt (and well deserved) reviews stating the numerous errors that I had let slip by. 
 Not paying attention to the little things made me look very dumb.  
 Because if you think about it, intelligence and observation are heavily linked together. One of the key characteristics of intelligence is the ability to link together information quickly.  
 What that means is that they are always thinking. Intelligent people are almost always the first ones with solutions to problems. This is because they are always paying attention to their surroundings and to the little details that others ignore. This allows them to analyze information quicker and come up with a response quicker.  
 This chapter is going to discuss the importance of being more observant and attentive. You'll learn the benefits of being more observant, how that relates to intelligence, and finally, I share some tips on how to make yourself more observant.  
 Why Being More Observant Makes You More Intelligent 
 Herbert A. Simon, a very famous American economist and sociologist, once said a very famous quote that went like this:  
 "information consumes the attention of its recipients...a wealth of information creates a poverty of attention."  
 What Simon was saying here is that your mind does best at processing information when it is focusing on a single thing or maybe a very small range of things at once. When you are bombarded with large amounts of things to focus on, your brain may be able to acknowledge them, but it won't be able to actually focus and analyze any of the topics.  
 Look at it this way, when you want to really solve a problem, you focus all your attention on that single problem. You do this because it enables all your brain's energy to be devoted to solving that particular problem. When you are focused on one single thing, you tend to be more observant, you pay attention to small details. Most people are capable of doing this regularly, but they don't. People understand the value of being more observant, but so many still fail to pay attention to the small details in life. They split their attention between too many things at once.  
 By just being more observant in general, you'll automatically become more intelligent. But, what do I mean when I say be more observant? Well, put away distractions and be constantly analyzing and thinking.  
 For example, if you are talking to someone, don't split your attention between them and something else (like your phone, your emails, work, etc.), actually focus on what they are saying, you may learn something. As a general rule, you should pay better attention to your surroundings, by doing this you will train your brain to better react to information and process it quicker.  
 This is actually backed up by a good amount of scientific research. In 2013 Dr. Michael D. Melnick (out of the University of Rochester) conducted a study in which he noted that people with higher IQs generally received and process information at a quicker rate. Furthermore, your brains constantly have to suppress "irrelevant information" (information that is not important for the tasks that you currently dealing with).  
 So, the more you divide your attention, the more inefficient your brain actually becomes since it has to devote more resources to suppressing more and more irrelevant information.  
 The main takeaway from this is the critical importance of observation. I can't stress enough how crucial observation is to intelligence. That is why in the next section of this chapter, I intend to give you some helpful tips to become more observant.  
 How to Become More Observant  
 Now that I have covered the actual benefits of being more observant, it is time to address the ever important question of how to actually go about being more observant. To this end, I have a few tips to share with you. I don't guarantee that these tips will help everyone equally, but at least some of them should help you become more observant in your day to day life.  
 Learn to Step Away From Your Phone 
 Humans are meant to be naturally observant. Our ancestors had to be observant to survive. However, modern technology has to a certain extent degraded our observational abilities.  
 In an article for Psychology Today, Dr. Joe Navarro (who worked for the FBI for 25 years as a behavior specialist) noted how people became less observant when using their phones. He recalls a story where he saw a woman pushing a cart through a parking lot while texting on her phone. A man cornered her on the way to her car; luckily, he was only looking for some spare change, but imagine if he had had worse intentions. The takeaway here is that even if you think you can use your phone and be observant at the same time, the reality is that you can't.  
 Next time you're out, put away the phone (unless an emergency crops up) and just take in your surroundings. You'll be surprised at how much more you observe and notice without your phone to distract you. 
 Learn to Watch and Analyze People 
 The sport of people watching is surprisingly good for improving your observational skills. So many people fail to pay attention to those around them and it does have a seriously negative impact on their observational skills. As Navarro says in his article, take the time to think how each person you see influences you; ask yourself what do they make you think and feel?  
 Be a Better Listener  
 Observational skills don't just involve using your eyes, you also need to use your ears. Being able to listen to what people are saying and absorb important information is a crucial skill. There is a lot that goes into being a better listener; in fact, it's far too much to cover in this chapter. I will say, however, that when listening to someone, don't start thinking about a response until they are done speaking and you have actually analyzed what they have to say. Too many people miss important information because they distract themselves by crafting a response in their mind while the person is already talking.  
 Bottom Line - Pay Attention (focus on the little things):  
 Intelligence is the ability to link information quickly. The easiest way to do that is to pay attention to your surroundings. Learn how to listen to what is actually being said. Learn to see the reality in front of you. Learn to be objective so that you can make quick decisions. 
   
   
 Chapter 8: Learn How to Sell (Selling Makes You Smarter...Fast) 
 Shortly after college I worked as a salesperson for a British company that put together IT conferences. 
 My job was to call tech companies that wanted to sell to IT decision makers at big companies and them to pay $40k to sponsor our conferences. 
 In return we promised to introduce them to these decision makers. 
 It sounded like a dream job because I figured every tech company would happily pay money to meet their target clients face to face. 
 Boy was I wrong - but that's a story for another day. 
 The point is that I met some of the greatest sales people I've ever met in my life there.  
 People like this woman named Jeanette.  
 She was a very nice, middle-aged African American woman with a degree from the University of Michigan (she was incredibly smart) 
 I would just look at her at her desk, sitting down, talking on the phone. 
 All of a sudden, I'd hear her ring the bell (that's what we did when we closed a sale). 
 She was SOOO good - and I couldn't figure out why. 
 In fact, she consistently had months where she closed $150k-$200k in sales. At a 10% commission, she was easily making $15k to $20k per month in income. 
 But it wasn't just her, her boss, this really cool guy named Joel would be standing at his desk, just talking to clients, cool as a cucumber.  
 And he would make sales day in and day out.  
 It was amazing.  
 Of course, there were a bunch of unsuccessful salespeople there too, but being there showed me how much emotional intelligence it takes to be a great salesperson.  
 And it made me realize how intelligent great salespeople are.  
 When you think about occupations that have some of the smartest people working in them, what do you think of?  
 If most people were asked to answer this question, they'd probably answer with professions like doctors, lawyers, financial advisors, stockbrokers, etc. Now, don't get me wrong, those answers are all correct. You have to be incredibly intelligent to succeed in all of those fields (but, I would also argue that you have to be intelligent to succeed in a lot of other fields as well).  
 However, the one profession that isn't often included in these kinds of lists, but that should be, are salespeople. We may not think of the sales profession as being as intellectually rigorous as the medical, law, or finance fields, but it is. Believe me when I say that selling really anything is incredibly difficult. Being a salesperson requires a lot of knowledge and a lot of brainpower; being a successful one requires even more.  
 In this chapter, I'm going to tell you how being a successful salesperson can make you smarter; I'm also going to give you some helpful strategies that you can use to teach yourself how to sell. 
 Why Does Selling Make You Smarter? 
 First things first, I need to defend my core premise, which is that selling makes you smarter and that salespeople have to be intelligent to be successful in their field.  
 For example, as a writer, I not only have to make sure that I write a good book, but I have to make sure it sells! 
 I have to analyze the needs of the market and learn what people are interested in reading about. 
 I have to learn about marketing and promotion strategies. 
 I have to learn how to make the book interesting, engaging, and useful.  
 It takes a lot of thought, research, and planning.  
 I understand why some people would be skeptical, especially when you look at the qualifications for the various professions that I have mentioned so far.  
 For example, it takes years of rigorous studying to become a lawyer, doctor, or work in finance. On the other hand, being a salesperson either is often an entry-level job or at the very least it doesn't require any sort of actual experience or studying. Based off this information alone, you might conclude that selling things is less intellectually rigorous than those other professions, but you would be wrong. There are a couple of reasons why being a salesperson is an intellectually rigorous job and why learning to sell things can make you more intelligent.  
 You Have to Know About a Wide Variety of Topics 
 Firstly, you would be shocked by the sheer amount of things that good salespeople have to know and commit to memory. Good salespeople have to remember important information about whatever it is they are trying to sell. The reason being that customers get turned off of buying things when the salesperson doesn't appear to know what they are talking about. This applies to all kinds of salespeople as well. Computer salespeople, car salespeople, it doesn't matter, all salespeople are expected to have an in-depth knowledge of a topic. The process of learning about a topic in-depth does make you smarter.  
 I have a background in technology, and oftentimes when big software companies try to sell something, they involve people called sales engineers. 
 Sales engineers are tech people that help the salespeople understand what the customer needs and create a complex tech solution that will meet the customers needs.  
 You Have to Know How to Analyze People 
 To be successful at selling things, you need to be able to successfully analyze people. I haven't talked about it much so far in this book, but emotional intelligence (being able to analyze people, determine who will and won't buy, etc.) is an important component of intelligence.  
 A good salesperson will be able to analyze someone based off very little information and make an accurate judgment about that person. How will that person react to x or y sales strategy? Will this person be a repeat customer? These are the kinds of questions that a good salesperson has to be able to answer accurately. It is even more impressive when you consider that they have to answer them while having very little information about a person.  
 The profession also requires a great deal of observational skills. You will recall from the last chapter, where I mentioned how important observational skills were and how they were connected to intelligence.  
 Selling Something is Like Problem-Solving 
 Problem-solving is an important component of overall intelligence. Like many things in life, in order to develop problem-solving skills, you need to practice. The harder the problems, the better you get. That is where selling comes in.  
 As any good salesperson can tell you, every potential customer essentially represents a "problem" that they need to solve by turning them into a customer. Some customers are easy and some aren't. The point is that you develop good problem-solving skills by learning to sell.  
 How to Become Better at Selling 
 Like it or not, we're all salespeople. 
 I have to "sell" my daughter on why she should change out of her pajamas in the morning. 
 I have to "sell" my wife on why we should go to vacation in Mexico rather than San Francisco. 
 I have to "sell" the police officer that just pulled me over to let me go with a warning.  
 Like many things discussed in this book so far, I could write an entire book on this topic alone. However, that would this book far too long, so instead, I will give you just a few tips to help you get started on the path to becoming a good salesperson.  
 Don't Get Discouraged  
 Even the greatest salesperson out there has a shockingly low success rate. Part of learning to sell things is also learning to accept that nine out of ten people will straight up refuse to consider your offer.  
 Selling is a process; you have to stick with it to see success. Unless you are extremely lucky, you will strike out more often than not. The key is to persist and not become discouraged.  
 One of the best pieces of sales advice I ever received is not to force a square peg through a round hole. In other words, what you have isn't for everyone. Your job is to sift through people until you find someone that you can actually help.  
 Learn to Read People 
 In the last chapter, I discussed the importance of being able to read people. You may want to reread that chapter and apply those same principles here. I cannot stress enough how important it is to be able to observe small details about people and understand them based off those small details. If you can't master this, then you can never truly master the art of selling. 
 Know When to Call It Quits 
 Movies and television shows have somewhat conditioned us to think that the persevering salesperson will be successful. In reality, if someone tells you once that they aren't interested, no amount of sweet-talking will help you. If someone says no, accept that and move on to another potential customer.  
 Bottom Line - Learn How to Sell (selling makes you smarter... FAST): 
 Some of the smartest, quick-witted people in the world are salespeople. If you've ever encountered a street salesperson, you see how intelligent they are. They can read your body language, assess your intent to buy, counter objections, and deliver your product so fast you won't know what happened. You need to learn how to do that. 
 Chapter 9: Learn How to Program (This is an Awesome Way to Challenge Your Brain) 
 I remember my first computer programming class in college. 
 It was my second year and I had just switched majors from psychology and political science to information systems. 
 So I naturally had to take a computer programming class.  
 My first programming class was a C++ class, and I thought it was the hardest thing in the world. 
 I almost dropped the class because it was so hard. 
 The professor was so strict and matter-of-fact that the class was even more intimidating. 
 The funny thing is that he was a young, 30-something guy, with a buzz cut and a love for video games. 
 NOT your stereotypical professor. 
 Despite his young, hip image, he was SERIOUS. 
 He made us write code without any programming tools. 
 He gave us challenging assignments. 
 He had no mercy. 
 If I recall correctly, our first big assignment was to create a simple program that could be used at a cash register - it should add values of items and apply sales tax to the total sum. 
 A lot of us had no programming experience and were struggling.  
 But, I remember going to his office for help once and he taught me something invaluable.  
 I was struggling to learn the syntax of C++. It was so foreign to me that it was like learning Russian or Chinese. 
 But he taught me a really valuable skill; he told me to write out what I want my program to do - in simple words. 
 This practice is called creating pseudocode. The lesson was that if you can logically breakdown the problem, you can then learn the syntax you need rather simply.  
 That way, when you try to run the code and you get errors, you know that your logic is sound, so you can focus on looking for errors in your syntax. 
 He had told us about pseudocode before, but most of us ignored it. 
 It wasn't until I actually had to do an assignment that I learned how valuable it is to sit down and break the problem down logically before trying to actually write the program from scratch.  
 In Chapter 8, I introduced you to the idea that selling can make you smarter. If you recall that chapter, then you will remember that the reason for this was that selling helped to stimulate your brain and required you to expand your reservoir of knowledge. 
 Well, in this chapter I am going to continue with that theme and talk about how computer programming can make you smarter (also known as coding).  
 Computer programming is a great activity to challenge your brain. There is a reason why more and more schools are starting to teach kids the basics of computer programming.  
 Personally, I think there are two main reasons why computer programming is so intellectually stimulating. Firstly, programming is difficult, but not so difficult that it is impossible to understand without a formal education. A person, even one who isn't particularly good with computers, can learn to program with enough practice. Secondly, there are a lot of good, accessible, websites, videos, and books dedicated to helping people learn how to program from the ground up.  
 Sites like Udemy, Teachable, and SkillShare make it easy to learn, and you don't have to spend hundreds or thousands of dollars on learning materials. In this chapter, I am going to give you a brief overview of programming, as well as why and how you should go about learning to program.  
 What is Programming 
 A proper introduction to programming would require a book of its own. So, I am not even going to attempt to go in-depth on what programming is, how it works, etc., it would simply not be possible in a single chapter. Instead, I am going to give you a brief idea of what programming is and what it entails.  
 Programming essentially refers to the creation of computer applications. Computer programmers create programs like Google Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, iPhone apps, and a host of other applications like GPS, software that powers medical devices, spaceships, etc.  
 Why Learning to Program Can Make You Smarter 
 The reason programming can make you smarter is because of how intellectually rigorous it is. It requires a lot of critical thinking to figure out how to make thousands upon thousands of lines of code work together. Often times while you are programming, you will notice that the program you have created doesn't work (this happens to even the best computer programmers).  
 It then becomes your job to analyze your code and figure out what is wrong. This stimulates the problem-solving parts of your brain in a way that other kinds of puzzles simply cannot hope to match.  
 Moreover, programming does involve a lot of memorization, so the part of your brain that controls memory is stimulated as well.  
 Of all the activities I have described and am going to describe in this book (learning how to sell, reading more, learning a new language, and learning how to write), programming is probably the most difficult of them all. Obviously, personal preference plays a role. Some people may find it easier than writing or learning a new language, depending on how technically minded they are. 
 How to Get Into Computer Programming 
 Now that I have covered the advantages of learning how to program, I want to shift gears and talk about how someone who knows absolutely nothing about programming could get into the field. I'm not going to mention the obvious answers, like going to college, instead, I'm going to stick to methods that are available to everyone.  
 Read Books/Articles 
 Although programming is done entirely on computers, one of the best ways to get into programming is by going offline and picking up a book. There are many great introductory books out there that introduce computer programming. A lot of these books are designed for people who have absolutely no experience with computers. For example, How to Code for Dummies is a great introductory book. The name may turn you off, but don't be fooled by the playful name. The book is well written and well researched; it's a great way to start learning how to program. 
 If books aren't your style, then you may want to consider looking up some articles online. Articles aren't as in-depth as books and so you won't get as good of an introduction to the topic. Despite this, there are still some really well written articles out there on the topic.  
   
   
 Watch Videos 
 One of my close friends learned how to program by watching YouTube videos. 
 Now he went to college for computer science, so he understood the basics, but since computer languages change so quickly, most stuff that you learn in school is obsolete by the time you get into the workforce. 
 That's where online courses from Teachable, SkillShare, and Udemy come in. Most of the time these courses are created by experts for beginners, so you can't really go wrong.  
 Where To Go From Here 
 Once you have a basic introduction to programming and feel ready to move on, you will have to start trying to make your own websites and programs. The thing about programming is that it is very much a profession that is best learned through trial and error.  
 Like my Visual Basic professor in college said "Programming is not a spectator sport" 
 You aren't going to become a good programmer by just reading about how to do it or by watching others do it. You have to practice, practice, and practice some more. When you first start learning to program, I can almost guarantee that the first thing you create will be awful. But, don't get discouraged as that is true for all programmers (really, it is true of any profession that creates something). Nobody masters programming on his or her first try, so keep at it and you will become a master programmer in no time.  
 Bottom Line - Learn How to Program (this is an AWESOME way to challenge your brain): 
 Computer programming is phenomenal because it forces you to think logically and methodically. You learn how to deconstruct a problem and devise a solution. It's great that kids are learning how to program in school now. 
   
   
   
 










 
 Chapter 10: Write Books, Articles, and Quora Answers (Writing Makes You A Lot Smarter) 
   
 I feel like writing and public speaking are superpowers. 
 I've been writing for the past 10 years. 
 Blogs, articles, and now books. 
 I've written about fitness, politics, history, religion, personal development, and business. 
 And each time I write with intent and passion, I feel like I'm unable to unlock something deep within my brain and channel it on paper. 
 Sometimes as I write, I come up with new ideas, new statements, and new insights.  
 Other writers often report the same thing. 
 It's almost as if writing activates something deep in your brain.  
 Whether it does or not, being able to write and express ourselves is one of the traits that make us human.  
 You may remember that way back in chapter 1 I talked about the value inherent in reading and how it could make you smarter. I won't repeat everything I said in that first chapter, but I will repeat two key points.  
 Reading makes you smarter because it both increases your reservoir of knowledge and because it forces you to think critically. In this chapter, I'm going to talk about something that is closely related to reading, which is writing.  
 Much like reading, writing has the ability to make you smarter. Moreover, much like reading, writing does this both by increasing the base of knowledge you have to go off of and by making you think critically.  
 However, writing adds some other wrinkles into the mix; for example, writing requires you to be able to change information to make it more suitable for your audience, which is something reading doesn't do. In this chapter, you will learn how writing can make you smarter. I will also give you my personal recommendations for how to get into writing since it can be difficult for newcomers to start. 
   
 Why Writing Makes You Smarter 
 In the introduction, I briefly mentioned some of the main ways that writing can make you more intelligent; in this section, I intend to expand upon that. 
 It increases your reservoir of knowledge  
 All writers do research before they write. Some people have this idea that writers just sit down at a computer and start pouring words onto a page. That doesn't happen outside of movies and television shows. The reality is that research is crucial to all writing, whether it is fiction or nonfiction. Good writing is well researched, well planned, and ultimately, well composed.  
 While researching, you are going to come across things that you didn't know. Even experts often come across new information while researching topics that they have degrees in. Of course, this a double-edged sword. As Stephen King said in an article for the Guardian about his six tips for writing, "do the research but don't overdo it for the reader."  
 It Forces You to Think Critically 
 This applies more to non-fiction than to fiction (although there are cases where this isn't true). One of the key ways that writing makes you smarter is by forcing you to think critically. Writing often forces you to defend beliefs and arguments that might not otherwise be challenged. I can personally attest to this being the case. Many times I have gone to write an article or book with an idea in mind, but during the process of researching and writing, I find myself realizing that the idea doesn't make much sense as I initially thought.  
 There's something about actually putting arguments, beliefs, and ideas on paper in front of you that makes you think about them in a different way. Reading also forces you to think critically, but in a different way. Reading introduces you to new ideas and forces you to consider them. On the other hand, writing does it by forcing you to defend and maybe even tweak beliefs that you currently hold. 
 It Forces You to Make Your Ideas Readable  
 One of the unique ways that writing can make you smarter is by forcing you to get used to rewording ideas and thoughts to make them readable to your audience. This engages your brain in several different ways.  
 Firstly, it engages your brain and forces you to think of different words and creative new ways to phrase ideas.  
 Secondly, it forces you to analyze your audience and determine the best way to engage with them in your writing. This last one can be surprisingly difficult, but once you manage to master it, you will become a lot more intelligent.  
 How to Get Into Writing 
 Now that I have covered the intellectual benefits of writing, it becomes a question of how exactly to get into writing. This is harder than it sounds. Sure, you could just write stuff for yourself, but that is pretty unsatisfying. Plus, there is no one to give you any feedback, which is crucial if you want to improve as a writer.  
 My recommendations for starting out as a writer are to write articles for websites or write answers on Quora.  
 I've garnered 1.4 million views of my answers on Quora and a few thousand followers. 
 One of the ways I've done that is by writing really punchy articles.  
 I focus on compelling headlines, using bullet points, bold, and italics, and writing stories. 
 You may have noticed that I started each chapter of this book with a personal story. That's because our brains work best when we have pictures, and telling stories allows us to picture information, making it easier to understand and remember.  
 As for writing, I love Quora.com Quora is essentially a website where users go to ask questions and receive knowledgeable, well-researched answers. Quora is a great place to practice both your research and writing skills, and I have written many well-received answers on the site.  
 Once you have sufficient practice when it comes to writing, you can tackle a bigger project like writing a small book. The rise of Amazon and ebooks have made self-publishing easier than ever. You can easily write a book on whatever topic you want and have it published on Amazon in no time. 
 Bottom Line - Write Books, Articles, and Quora Answers (writing makes you a LOT smarter):  
 It's one thing to have knowledge in your head, but the ability to clearly and concisely write it requires a strong understanding of concepts and an ability to tailor it to your audience. 
   
   
 










 
 Chapter 11: Learn a New Language 
 My grandfather was not a very educated man, in the traditional sense. 
 Growing up in Pakistan, education was not a luxury he could afford. His father died when he was 11 or 12, so he became the head of his household at a very young age.  
 He worked as a mechanic, and eventually in the Pakistani army.  
 And while he didn't have formal education, he did speak 5 different languages: Urdu, Punjabi, Pashto, Arabic, and eventually English.  
 I don't quite know the story of how he learned them all, but in the 1940's it was common for people in that region of the world to speak multiple languages because Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, India, and Middle Eastern countries had such a shared history.   
 Growing up in the Chicago, we spoke English at home, but I did learn basic Urdu from my grandparents because they didn't speak very much English, but in college, I did go to Egypt to study Arabic. 
 So I've always loved learning different languages and have respect for people that embark to learn other languages. 
 I even was learning Mandarin in my early 20's before I had kids and would like to learn it again when I have more time.  
 If you have heard of the television series Game of Thrones, then you are also probably familiar with the intelligent dwarf character named Tyrion. In one of the first episodes, he has a very good line about how the mind is like a sword, it goes dull if it is not sharpened.  
 If you want to keep your mind in good shape and even improve it, then you need to "sharpen" it. In this case, when I say "sharpen" I mean that you need to do things that challenge your mind, force you to memorize information and think critically. There are a lot of ways to sharpen your mind, you can read books, you can do logic puzzles, or you can attempt to learn something new, like a new language.  
 The purpose of this chapter is to introduce you to the benefits of learning a new language. I personally learned Arabic when I visited Cairo in my teens, and it was one of the most rewarding experiences of my life; I want others to experience that feeling as well. 
 Why Learning a New Language Makes You Smarter 
 There are a lot of benefits to learning a new language, especially if it is one that is relevant your area. Let's assume you are an American, if you learn Spanish for example, you can travel to large parts of the world and have conversations with the people living there (all of South America with the exception of Brazil speaks Spanish). You can also converse with a greater number of people in your own area (there are upwards of 41 million native Spanish speakers in the United States, a number that increases yearly).  
 But, the benefit that I want to focus on is how learning a new language can actually make you smarter. The New York Times ran an interesting article entitled "Why Bilinguals are Smarter." The article mentions, among other things, a 2004 study that looked at whether bilingual people were simply more intelligent than there unilingual counterparts.  
 Two groups of children asked to complete two simple puzzles, with one being simple and the other being more difficult. One group of children was unilingual and the other group was bilingual. The results showed that while both groups did roughly the same on the simpler puzzle when it came to the harder one, the bilingual group solved the puzzle at a much quicker rate.  
 This is just one study, but there are many others out there that confirm the idea that bilingual people are, on average, smarter than monolingual people. Many of these studies also deal with adults as opposed to children; so don't think this principle just applies to bilingual and monolingual children.  
 I could spend this whole chapter discussing many of these studies, but I think the far more interesting question is why learning a new language makes you smarter.  
 For scientists, there seem to be a few reasons why going bilingual improves your cognitive abilities. For starters, learning a new language is difficult, especially as an adult. It is time-consuming and it requires a lot of memorization, as well as critical thinking. This forces you to engage the majority of your brain. Think of learning a new language like an exercise that targets all your vital muscle groups. I am sure you have heard ads that sell you exercise programs that workout every muscle in your body. That is what learning a new language is like, except it is for your brain. Just like any other muscle, when you work out your brain, it gets stronger.  
 Learning a new language also directly improves your brain's "executive function." For those who are unfamiliar with the term, the executive function of your brain refers to the parts of your brain responsible for many of the things we associate with intelligence (problem-solving, planning, memory, etc.). By learning a new language, you are directly improving this vital part of your brain.  
 Another very useful benefit of bilingualism is how it helps you improve your ability to monitor and process information. If you think about it, bilingualism essentially doubles your brain's workload. It has to be able to absorb and process information from two different sources (think about how much more it would have to do if you know three languages!). Because bilingual people have to be able to understand two languages, and in some cases understand them in rapid succession (say for example, because you are talking to someone in English, while also talking to someone else in Spanish). This means that your brain becomes better at quickly absorbing relevant information. A study was done on bilingual Italians and monolingual Italians confirmed this. The study showed that the parts of the brain responsible for absorbing and processing information were less active in bilingual Italians; the reason being that that part of the brain is more efficient in bilingual people. 
 How to Learn a New Language 
 As someone who has learned a new language, I can tell you firsthand that the most efficient way to become bilingual is to be directly around native speakers and practice directly with them. Likewise, you have to use the language daily, so that it sets in. However, I realize that this isn't possible for a lot of people out there.  
 The next best thing is to take a course like Pimsleur, Rosetta Stone, or what's becoming more popular these days, is to learn a language from native speakers in other countries via Skype.  
 With practice, you can become fluent in a year or so.  
 Bottom Line - Learn a New Language (double your brain's capacity):  
 I learned Arabic in Cairo when I was 18 and it was one of the best experiences in my entire life. Learning a new language opens up an entire world and helps you think quicker. The more mistakes you make when speaking, the faster you learn (see #2 above) 
   
   
   
   
 










 
 Chapter 12: Take More Naps (Another Ancient Secret) 
 I have 3 kids now, ages 11, 7, and 2.  
 But when I had my first son, I used to love taking naps with him. 
 Not only was it a bonding experience, but it gave me a chance to rest also. 
 These days I don't have much time to nap on the weekends, but I realize how vitally important naps are.  
 To illustrate the importance of naps, what do people like Winston Churchill, Albert Einstein, Napoleon Bonaparte, John F. Kennedy have in common (well, besides being very famous leaders and thinkers)?  
 They all saw the value in taking power naps. In his memoirs, Winston Churchill famously said: "Nature has not intended mankind to work from eight in the morning until midnight without that refreshment of blessed oblivion which, even if it only lasts twenty minutes, is sufficient to renew all the vital forces."  
 Because of today's fast-paced world, we are conditioned to try and put all our energy into work. We associate taking naps with laziness and being unproductive. Think about how "lazy" characters are depicted on television; Homer Simpson is portrayed as being extremely lazy and always napping at work. But, this is not an idea backed up by science or history. As this chapter will show, there are numerous benefits to napping, one of which is increased cognitive function. In this chapter, I am going to introduce you to the many benefits of napping, as well as the concept of "micro napping."  
 Why It's Good to Nap 
 We all know that napping can make you feel refreshed, but the value of a good nap goes far beyond just making you feel better. Scientific studies have shown that napping actually has tremendous benefits when it comes to your cognitive abilities. When I say "cognitive abilities," think about things like your ability to remember information, your ability to process information, your ability to problem solve (essentially, it refers to anything that we think when we talk about a person's intelligence).  
 An article released by Harvard Medical School in 2012 summarized a lot of recent studies done on the subject of sleep and its effects on people's cognitive abilities. Some of the more interesting studies show just how powerful napping can be.  
 For example, in one study a group of normal people were given a series of various tests. The tests revolved around doing things like solving puzzles, completing mazes, and other similar tests. The idea was to test their logic and critical thinking skills as opposed to testing their knowledge with trivia. The people were split into two groups. One group had to take the test and finish it in ninety minutes without any breaks. The other group was allowed to have a short nap after forty-five minutes. The results of the study showed that the group who was able to nap ended up with higher test scores. Indicating that the napping honed their critical thinking and problem-solving skills.  
 Another study looked at whether "micro naps" were effective or not (I will explain what a micro nap is in more detail later on in the chapter, but for the moment the name alone probably gives you enough of a clue). The study, which was done in Germany, involved a group of participants memorizing a list of thirty words. After memorizing the list, the participants were divided into two groups. The first group was asked to immediately recite the list, while the second group was allowed to take a roughly five-minute nap before reciting. The results showed that the group who was allowed to take a power nap before reciting did significantly better in reciting  
 One of the key things you should be taking away from these studies is how quickly napping's benefits kick in. Compare napping with something like coffee. With coffee, you have to make it and then you have to drink it (and if you are like most people, you probably drink it slowly). This means that it takes a while before the caffeine gets into your body and stimulates your mind.  
 On the other hand, a quick power nap stimulates your mind almost instantly. Sure, some people can be a bit fuzzy when they first wake up, but that goes away very quickly, and you can always splash some cold water on your face to quickly snap out of it.  
 Napping helps your brain because acts almost as a sort of "reset button" on your body. Scientists have found that people's ability to think critically, problem solve, etc., decreases as the day goes on. A quick nap allows you to refocus your mind and clear out all the mental baggage that has accumulated over the course of the day.  
 Micro Naps 
 Micro naps are very quick naps that are designed to clear your mind, without requiring you to sleep for an extended period of time. Most people tend to nap for thirty to forty-five minutes. But, that amount of napping is unnecessary to get the benefits that have already been discussed. Instead, you should learn to start taking short micro naps, which will give you more time to work.  
 Salvador Dali, one of the most famous European artists in recent history, had a technique for micro napping that he used constantly. Personally, I think it works great as well, and so I am going to share it with you.  
 First, sit in a comfortable armchair. Secondly, grab something small and metal. You don't want the object to be too heavy, but at the same time, you want it to be heavy enough to make noise if you drop it. Dali personally recommended using a metal key. If you think the key alone isn't loud enough, try putting a metal plate on the floor directly under your hand. Start falling asleep like you normally would. Once you have fallen asleep, the key will fall from your hand and hit the floor (or the plate) and make a loud noise, which should wake you up. This is a micro nap. Of course, you can customize this exact procedure to your liking. For example, you could easily replace the key with a phone alarm that is set to go off after four or five minutes. Personally, I enjoy Dali's method. 
 These micro naps will give you all the cognitive benefits of napping but in just a few minutes. Try it yourself and see if it boosts your productivity.  
 Bottom Line - . Take More Naps (this is another ancient secret):  
 Salvador Dali and Albert Einstein were artistic and mathematical geniuses. They both took micro naps and credited their achievements to taking naps. Need I say more? Take more naps. 
   
 










 
 Chapter 13: Eat Less (Being Too Full Makes You Stupid) 
 Most of you have probably heard of the concept of "brain food." Certain food is marketed as being good for your brain's development. Things like oily fish (salmon, sardines, etc.), berries, and eggs are often marketed as being good for your brain. However, what if I told you that not eating (or eating less) could actually help improve your cognitive function and make you smarter? The idea may sound far-fetched at first, but there is some logic behind the idea.  
 In this chapter, I'm going to explore the interesting idea that eating less can make you smarter and improve your cognitive ability.  
 How Eating Less Can Make You Smarter 
 When I first learned about the connection between calories consumed and intelligence, I was skeptical, but a lot of studies seem to support the idea. CNN did an article on the connection between cutting calories and improved memory function.  
 The article mentions a recent study that involved a group of women aged 50 to 80. The women were either at a healthy weight or considered slightly overweight. As part of the study, the women were asked to go on a diet that resulted in their daily caloric intake being reduced by roughly thirty percent.  
 So, what does this have to do with intelligence? Well, during the study the women did regular tests that specifically focused on testing their memory abilities. As the study went on the women began to do noticeably better on the memory tests. This suggests that there is a connection between eating less and intelligence.  
 While this particular study only showed that it can increase your memory capabilities, you have to remember that being able to remember important information is an important component of overall intelligence. Being able to remember key facts, figures, etc., in the middle of a conversation is a sure sign of intelligence, and it is one others pick up on as well.  
 Now, this is still very much an area of active research, so the list of studies to draw on is somewhat low; this is especially true when compared with some of the other things discussed so far.  However, that doesn't mean that you should ignore this advice. Scientists are continuing to study the topic and I am sure that in the years to come scientists will discover even more connections between eating less and increase cognitive abilities.  
 You may be curious as to why eating less can make you more intelligent. This is understandable, as it can be difficult to see how what you put into your stomach could somehow affect your cognitive functions.  
 There are a couple of possible explanations. Firstly, cutting calories leads to your body better regulates its insulin levels, which can, in turn, have a positive effect on brain performance. It is possible that this is why eating less is linked with improved cognitive function. 
 Another possible explanation is that the body gets sluggish when you are full. I think everyone understands this. When you have just finished eating a big meal, there is nothing that you want to do more than to sit down and take a nap. This is because when you eat a lot, your body releases serotonin. This can lead to decreased cognitive function.  
 Finally, there is a mental aspect to it. In the next chapter, I will talk about the relationship between positive thinking and intelligence in more detail. However, I will mention the issue briefly right now. When you cut down on calories, you just tend to feel better about yourself. You feel healthier and you feel more confident. This positive thinking does lead to an increase in cognitive abilities (again, if you want evidence of this, turn to the next chapter).  
 So, if at the start of this chapter you were skeptical, hopefully, this evidence has convinced you that there is a connection between eating less and increased cognitive abilities. Don't get me wrong, eating less at dinner isn't going to turn you into a super genius overnight or anything like that. But, it can lead to small, but noticeable improvements in cognitive abilities. It is especially effective when combined with many of the other tips and strategies found in this book.  
 Strategies for Eating Less 
 There are a lot of strategies out there for eating less. This isn't a diet book, so I will not go into too much detail on how to consume fewer calories. However, I do want to share a few strategies that I find effective and easy to do.  
 Use Smaller Dinnerware 
 When serving food, we seem to have an instinctive desire to fill up the plate, bowl, etc. Even if we are trying to consume fewer calories, it seems that we subconsciously do it. So, you can actually cut your calorie intake by a significant number by just using smaller dinnerware.  
 Drink More Water 
 Another tip I find really effective is to drink water constantly. I always have a bottle or glass of water with me. It doesn't matter if I am at home or at work, I am always drinking water. Whenever I feel hunger coming on, I take a sip of cold water and it seems to suppress the feeling of hunger. Plus, the cold water helps give your brain a tiny jolt, which can be useful for getting yourself back on track. 
 Chew Slower 
 This is another very useful mental trick that can be used to help significantly reduce the number of calories that you consume on a daily basis. As the sub-heading indicates, all that you need to do is chew slower. This allows you to savor the food longer and it convinces your mind that you are actually eating more than you really are.  
 These are some of the tips that I find most helpful when it comes to reducing caloric intake. Obviously, these tips may not work for all of you, so I encourage you to try out your own strategies to find what works best for you.  
   
 Bottom Line - Eat Less (being too full makes you stupid):  
 Eating too much has been scientifically proven to lead to mild cognitive impairment. In general, the human body is resilient and adaptive, that means it does better with less. If you want to get smarter, you DON'T want to inundate your body with unnecessary calories that it has to figure out what to do with. 
 










 
 Chapter 14: Positive Self-Talk (Talk To Yourself Like You're Smart) 
 I was a self-help junkie until I figured out THIS simple truth... 
 Jeffrey Immelt, the CEO of General Electric gave a talk at my company and he said that despite being beaten up in the markets, and having labor issues, and problems doing business in foreign countries, you have to be able to wake up every morning, look in the mirror and say, "Hello handsome" and keep on going. 
 The take home message was this 
 Experience, grit, motivation, creativity, tenacity, confidence, resilience, vision, persistence, relationships, self-reliance, and ruthlessly persistent ACTION 
 Is more important than: 
 Intelligence, money, talent, education, dreaming, wishing, and hoping. 
 Imagine you're LeBron James before a big game... how would you talk to yourself?  
 Would you be scared, worried, or anxious? 
 Or would you be self-confident, bold, and dominant?  
 Well guess what happens when you talk and think about yourself positively - you ACT positively.  
 That's why self-talk is so important. 
 The battle has to be won before it even begins.   
 Humans work off positive encouragement; this is just a simple fact. As this article from Psychology Today shows that positive reinforcement works better than negative reinforcement.  
 In other words, people tend to respond better when someone emphasizes their good points and rewards them, than when someone critiques them for perceived failings. As you will see later on in this chapter, positive encouragement can have noticeable improvements on your cognitive performance. But, what do you do if you don't have anyone to offer you positive encouragement?  
 The answer is positive self-talk. Believe it or not, offering yourself positive encouragement can actually produce the same benefits that you would get if someone else offered the same encouragement. In this chapter, I am going to introduce you to the value of positive self-talk. 
 Does Self-Talk Really Help? 
 Ethan Kross, a professor of psychology at the University of Michigan divides self-talk into two categories.  
 The first category is instructional self-talk. This is when you talk yourself through difficult situations. Have you ever been doing something difficult (like building something) and noticed that you have a tendency to talk yourself through difficult sections? This is instructional self-talk.  
 The other kind of self-talk is called motivational self-talk, and as you can guess from the title of this chapter, this is going to be what I am focusing on. Motivational self-talk is what you would expect it to be; it refers to telling yourself things like "I am smart," "I can do this," etc.  
 Science has shown that self-talk is incredibly effective. To give you a clear example of the power of positive self-talk, let's look at psychologist David Sarwer, who runs a center dedicated to weight loss at the University of Pennsylvania. In an interview with NPR, Sarwer says that he encourages patients to practice positive self-talk as opposed to negative self-talk. He finds that it is extremely effective when it comes to helping patients lose weight.  
 Self-talk can make you smarter in two ways. Firstly, it can help you focus. Talking to yourself can help clear your head of other distractions and get you to focus on whatever task is at hand. Secondly, and more importantly, it helps boost your confidence. Confidence affects every facet of your life, including intelligence. You can be the smartest person in the world, but if you don't have confidence in your own abilities, it's all worthless. Smart people tend to be confident in their own abilities and intelligence. They know they are smart and they aren't afraid to show it.  
 If you have difficulty believing in yourself or believing in your abilities, then positive self-talk provides a great way for you to build your confidence. Whenever you feel unsure of yourself, repeat certain phrases to yourself. Tell yourself that you're a smart person and that you can accomplish anything that you put your mind to. Repeat the same motivational phrases to yourself over and over again. I know at first it may not seem like it's working, but trust me, it is.  
 The Importance of Word Choice 
 The exact words that you use when doing self-talk are important. Your first instinct will be to use words like "I" when practicing self-talk. It makes sense; after all, you are talking to yourself, so it makes sense to use the term "I." However, there is evidence that changing up the words you use when you are doing self-talk can help make it even more effective. Ethan Kross, that psychologist at the University of Michigan that I mentioned earlier, did a study to determine whether using different words in your positive self-talk could be useful. Specifically, he wanted to investigate whether using words like "you" in place of "I" was more effective. Despite sounding odd, it actually did work. Two groups of people were asked to take a test. One group used regular positive self-talk (meaning they talked in first person, using words like "I"), while the second group used second person positive self-talk (meaning they used words like "you"). The results showed that the second group did better across the board. The researchers seem to theorize that saying things like "you are smart" or "you can do anything" trigger more effective reactions in people. This may be because our brains are more receptive to others giving us positive encouragement. Therefore, talking in the second person seems to effectively "trick" the brain into thinking someone else is encouraging you.  
 How to Use Positive Self-Talk in Your Day-to-Day Life 
 Actually incorporating positive self-talk into your day-to-day life can be difficult. This is especially true if you already have a nasty habit of talking down to yourself. Personally, I follow a few rules that make it easier to practice positive self-talk.  
 Firstly, don't say anything to yourself that you wouldn't say to a friend.  
 Secondly, try to say one positive thing about yourself every hour. I find it helpful to reflect on what I have accomplished in the last hour or so of work and compliment myself on it.  
 Finally, if a negative thought does creep into my head (and they do occasionally), don't let it impact you. Instead, break down the negative thought. Ask yourself, is this negative thought actually justified or is it just me being overly critical of myself? For example, sometimes I think I don't get enough work accomplished on a daily basis. This leads to me having negative thoughts about how I am lazy and need to work harder. Now, for most people, these kinds of thoughts would depress them and make them feel stupid, worthless, etc. But, what I do is break down the thought and think about how much work I have completed over the entirety of the day. I talk positively to myself and the negative thought ends up having no impact.  
 Bottom Line - Positive Self-Talk Works (talk to yourself like you're smart): Telling yourself "I'm smart. I've got this. I've got this under control. I love challenges. I love solving problems" is what high-achievers and world-class performers do. They don't allow stress and worry to paralyze them. Rather, they have an extreme sense of self-reliance and inner calm that allows them to make quick, accurate decisions. That's why I referenced the story of Jeffrey Immelt above. 
   
 Chapter 15: Take Aggressive, Persistent Action (action is the key) 
 Action is everything. 
 You can plan, strategize, think, read, meditate, and visualize all you want, but if you don't take action, nothing happens. 
 The same is true about intelligence, thinking faster, and learning quicker. 
 It doesn't matter how "smart" I am if I never take action and use it.  
 It isn't until you take action that you know how useful your knowledge is - or how well you even know it in the first place.  
 In this last chapter, I am going to deviate a bit from what I have been doing throughout the other parts of the book, which is giving advice on how to make yourself smarter.  
 Instead, this chapter is going to be about taking action and actually using the knowledge that you have accumulated. Ideally, you will use much, if not all, of the knowledge that you have learned in this book. Taking action is important; after all, what good is knowledge if you never put it to use. Nobody is going to know you're intelligent if you never speak up and actually demonstrate it.  
 In this chapter, I want to focus on various ways that you can use the knowledge that you have accumulated. 
 Use Your Knowledge to Improve Yourself 
 One of the greatest ways to use knowledge is to improve your own life. There are a variety of ways that you can go about using knowledge to improve your life. For example, say you aren't completely satisfied with your current line of work. Consider how you can turn your vast reservoir of knowledge into a line of work. For example, in chapter 9, I talked about the value of programming. I mentioned how it can make you smarter and I also mentioned good places to start learning about programming. If that is something that appeals to you, then learn to program and turn that knowledge into a career. People who can program websites or write code are always in high demand, both in formal workplaces and in freelance internet work. 
 Another example would be writing. You may remember that back in chapter 10 I talked about the value of learning how to write. Well, if you found that you were good at it and that you enjoyed it, you may want to try freelance writing on the side. It not only gives you a further chance to practice your skill, but you can also make a tidy income on the side.  
 These are just a few examples; you can, of course, do anything you want. My main point is this, don't just sit on knowledge that could potentially be profitable for you. If you have spent time making yourself smarter in a specific field and you are interested in that field, don't just sit on that knowledge, use it. Go out and research how you can use that knowledge to make money, get a career, etc.  
 There are other ways that you can use your intelligence to better your life. For example, if you are particularly knowledgeable in a certain area (history politics, finance, web design, engineering, etc.) Why not check out your local colleges and universities and see if they offer any programs related to areas that you are interested in. There is no such thing as over education, you can always afford to learn more and have your knowledge tested.  
 Taking Action Keeps Your Mind in Shape 
 I've said it before in this book, but it's worth repeating, your mind is like a muscle. And just like any other muscle in your body, if you don't use it regularly, it atrophies. A lot of people spend time teaching themselves skills or educating themselves, then they never use what they taught themselves.  
 Now, sometimes that is because they just can't find any opportunities to use what they learned, and other times it is because of laziness. Whatever your situation is, you should make a conscious effort to use your knowledge, otherwise, you will lose it. It makes no sense to spend all the time improving yourself and making yourself smarter, only to end up losing it all.  
 Take learning a language, for example, it takes a lot of effort to learn a language (this is something I mentioned in the chapter dedicated to the topic). A lot of people learn a language in college or university, then never use it and eventually, they forget it. Why waste your time learning something if you never plan on using it?  
 Make sure you are always doing something to keep your mind sharp. Read books, do puzzles, find ways to converse in a language that you have learned, write answers on Quora. All these activities keep your mind engaged and sharp.  
 Use your knowledge to improve others' lives 
 You can always your knowledge to help improve the lives of those around you. There are a variety of ways to go about this. For example, say that you are good at writing, why not use that skill to write on topics to educate others. You could even go further and start a blog dedicated to advocacy for whatever your preferred topic is. The internet is full of well-made blogs started by interested amateurs with no formal qualifications in what they are writing about.  
 You could also use your knowledge and skills to volunteer for local charities. Charities are always looking for intelligent people to help them out. You may not make any money, but you will get valuable experience and you will be able to put your mind to work. If the charity is dedicated to something that you are interested in, then that is even better! 
 Bottom Line - Take Aggressive, Persistent Action (action is the KEY):  
 Nothing makes you smarter than actually using the knowledge you have and taking ACTION. Action is what separates the dreamers from the doers. Action is what makes knowledge and intelligence worthwhile. 
   
   
   
 










 
 Get Your Free Cheat Sheet 
   
 I really want to help you achieve your goals, and if you read this book and do the exercises for the next 30 days, you'll develop the focus and concentration you need to achieve your goals. 
 But if you want even faster results, then join my email newsletter where I reveal free tips, strategies, and hacks to build mental toughness and a high-performance mindset.  
 I'll also send you my free 1-page cheat sheet "60 Seconds of Focus" where you'll discover how to build unbreakable focus and concentration in as little as 60 seconds.  
 Go to my site to download your free 1-page cheat sheet: 
   
 www.5xYourFocus.com 
   
 










 
 Speaking and Training 
   
 If you're interested in me speaking at your organization please contact me at: 
 raza@5xyourfocus.com 
 Whether it's corporate execs, salespeople, entrepreneurs, rockstar programmers, first responders, or medical professionals, I can share these simple strategies to have them perform at their best. 
 My live presentation will show them how to harness the simple principles in this book so that they can unleash their inner champion so they sell more, lead better, and make a bigger impact than you ever thought possible.  
 I blend performance psychology and high-level accountability to help your team how to get "unstuck", achieve massive growth, and unleash their inner champion. 
 Interested? 
 Contact me at raza@5xYourFocus.com for more info. 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 Please Leave a Review - It Means a Lot 
 I hope you enjoyed this book. If you did, please leave me a review. It will only take 30 seconds and it would mean a LOT to me as an author. 
 We live and die by reviews: 
 â—   They help us know how our readers feel about our work 
 â—   They give us the motivation to keep writing 
 â—   They help others learn about our books 
 So please leave a review now. 
 Thanks in advance! 
   
















