



Praise for Think Like an Engineer
"At last, a book that supports science and engineering undergraduates to learn
about understanding and developing their creative thinking and team skills to
address the global challenges facing society. Engineers and scientists are often 
faced with finding and implementing solutions to pressing societal needs. This
requires the simultaneous deployment of intellectual, technological and social
skills. This book explores some of the things engineers spend insufficient time 
considering - the process of how to achieve a complex goal by working together. 
For example, with the process of product manufacturing, and its associated
complex supply chains, becoming a truly global activity a different attitude to 
education is needed. In the global mind-set paradigm there is still the same
fundamental need for intellectual rigor but this needs to be applied within a
multidisciplinary team context, perhaps with different cultural values. Linear 
thinking is unlikely to yield the correct outcomes in a sufficiently competitive
timescale or cost envelope.  Think Like and Engineer explores this creative
paradigm. 
Professor Mushtak Al-Atabi is well known for his inspirational teaching of
engineering and entrepreneurship in classrooms and on-line. This book, written 
for undergraduate students, shares some of his thinking and passion.  The text is 
illustrated with practical examples. The first few chapters allow students to see 
how the engineering brain needs to be 'wired' including developing an emotional
intelligence in thought and action. In this context it introduces the processes of
creating concepts to address engineering challenges, designing solutions and
then implementing and operating the solution. This approach has become well
known under the acronym CDIO in recent years. For me, a most important part
of the book was the chapter discussing the dynamics in taking risks as an 
individual and as a team. In my experience this topic is rarely addressed and yet
is so critical to understanding how more creative inventions can be turned into 
radical innovations. The book shows how engineering design groups can be
assessed for their approach to risk-taking. 
In summary an enjoyable and essential read for student scientists, engineers, and
educators who want to impact society by thinking how they can develop a
systematic approach to solving challenges." 
Prof. Richard A Williams, Pro-Vice Chancellor, University of Birmingham
"The word 'engineer' has the same roots as the word 'ingenious' (Latin 
'ingenium').  Engineers are therefore charged with finding ingenious solutions to 
mankind's problems.   This book describes how to think like an engineer - using
creative formal and informal approaches - and how to arrive at optimal solutions 
using the Conceive, Design, Implement, Operate (CDIO) process.  It will be a
useful text for undergraduate engineers wanting to design even more ingenious
solutions!"
Prof. John Fothergill, Pro Vice-Chancellor, City University London 
"This book is a real tour de force. Prof Al-Atabi approaches his topic 'Think like
an engineer' from the very foundations of how our human brain operates, and 
interacts with our senses, how we build models of our world and use these 
models to guide us to realise (and when necessary limit) our dreams. 
'Dream Big. Be Different. Have Fun.' is a very appropriate chosen by-line for the 
book. Indeed the book itself is an example of how one can live this experience.
Reading the book, one feels certain that Prof Al-Atabi was doing just that
dreaming big, being different and having fun. 
For everyone who wants to be an engineer, this book will be a great guide to 
unleash their creativity - after all, that is the true meaning of the Latin "ingenerare"
(to create) from which the English word engineer is derived. Have fun reading!" 
Prof. Iven Mareels, Dean, Melbourne School of Engineering 
"This book articulates that the thought process of an engineer is not just about
specific technical accomplishments, but about acquiring the skills to handle the 
evolution of emotions, goals, and the environment in a dynamic world. It 
broadens the scope of engineering practice as a principle, not merely a profession.
A must read for citizens in this technological world!"
Prof. Ben Koo, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China 
"As an experienced academic who leads first year engineers and complex
research teams across academia and industry, this book resonates closely with 
many of my teaching and learning experience. The engineering CDIO (ConceiveDesign-Implement-Operate) process is cleverly interlaced with relevant and 
innovative concepts in brain function biochemistry, positive thinking, emotional
intelligence, brainstorming, project management, and entrepreneurship. This 
creates a much more holistic view of engineering thinking, and will influence 
future course designs in my University"
Prof. Pete Halley, Head of School of Chem. Eng., University of Queensland 
"Project-based learning is essential and valuable to engineers and engineering
students who are expected to apply scientific knowledge, mathematics, and
ingenuity to resolve technical, societal, and commercial problems in order to 
benefit the human beings in this century. Its core elements are all addressed in 
the book 'Think Like an Engineer'." 
Dr. Yuei-An Liou, Distinguished Professor,  
National Central University, Taiwan
"'Think Like an Engineer' moves well beyond the stereotypical view of Engineers
as mathematical thinkers, Al-Atabi highlights the importance of communication,
emotional intelligence and empathy in solving problems for society.  Illustrating
his points with appropriate examples, the reader is taken through a multidimensional perspective on the mindset of a successful Engineer.  What stands
out is how accessible the concepts are - this book is easy to read and the key points
are easy to grasp, but nonetheless the technical depth is preserved. An 
outstanding introduction to the Engineering profession, and one that is useful not
just for potential engineers but to society at large." 
Prof. Euan Lindsay, Foundation Professor of Engineering, 
Charles Sturt University
"Engineers are entrusted with helping all of us face the Grand Challenges of the
21st Century. To achieve this, they need to think systematically and innovatively
while searching for ground-breaking solutions. 'Think Like an Engineer' presents
the CDIO framework of practice in an easy to read, down to earth manner that
makes it accessible not only to engineers, but to the wide public as well. The book 
also provides a holistic personal and professional development programme as it 
incorporates the latest in brain science, emotional intelligence and 
entrepreneurship. It is a must read for engineers, business leaders and educators
in general." 
Prof. Seeram Ramakrishna, Founder of Global Engineering Deans Council, and 
a World's Most Influential Scientific Minds 
"Mushtak has tackled a subject close to my heart; he has explored what makes an
engineer tick; the way in which engineers tackle real world and often global 
challenges; the deep down passion that keeps engineers motivated; and looks into 
the heart-ware needed for an eternally evolving discipline that is developing
solutions for a sustainable future." 
Joe Eades, Founder, Ispahan Group
"An invaluable book for both engineering students and those teaching them. It 
provides both an overarching conceptual rational for learning engineering -and
related STEM disciplines -and practical frameworks to shape student 
understanding of their discipline." 
Alan Jenkins, Professor Emeritus, Oxford Brookes University
"This lively engineering education book by Mushtak Al-Atabi is filled with easy
to relate examples and a systematic treatise to support and enhance the 
effectiveness of the process."   
Dr. Shuo-Yan Chou, Distinguished Professor,  
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology 
"The book is one of the best resource available for students interested in the topic. 
It is written in a straightforward and supportive style to guide readers in the 
CDIO concept of engineering projects. It provides clear, simple and practical
illustrations as well as a variety of approaches, which enable readers to put into 
practice for their own use. This invaluable resource will go a long way in
supporting students learning and preparing them for their engineering careers.
Definitely worth reading." 
Prof. Mohd Hamdi Abd. Shukor, Deputy Vice-Chancellor,  
University of Malaya 
'Think Like an Engineer' puts into perspective the underlying and at times the
subconscious complexity of how engineers think. Many years of expertise and 
passion have gone into developing this text and it makes stimulating reading and 
is not constrained to the engineering profession. Whatever profession we have 
taken there is always a natural curiosity for finding out how things work and then 
improving them, this books amplifies the important ingredients that will allow 
that curiosity to be realised. Throughout the book the importance of the creative 
mind plays a key role in being able to generate ideas, artefacts, or processes that 
are new and of value and which make the world a better place. Failure is also 
recognised as a key part of being creative, if we are not making mistakes, we are 
not learning and we are certainly not doing things differently. 
Professor Al-Atabi shares many years of expertise in a book that has evolved over 
time with his own experiences. It will be a key companion for engineering
students who are engaged in project based activity and for professionals in any
disciple who want to take a more structured and systematic approach to address 
the challenges that they face." 
Professor Gary Hawley, Dean of Engineering, University of Bath 
"Dr. Al-Atabi's book unlocks the conundrum of what to learn today to be relevant
in the face of future challenges and opportunities that do not exist yet. He infuses
his stories with an infectious passion to make an enjoyable read. Highly
recommended to anyone who aspires to live a meaningful and productive life."
Arnold Teo, Shell (Malaysia) 
"There are many books that talk about success and how to achieve it. What Prof. 
Mushtak has brought forward in this book is a unique view of how engineers 
think and what makes engineers successful. In summary, it was never more than
following your passion relentlessly.  I've always been a great fan of Prof. Mushtak 
and I'm absolutely pleased that he has taken this mammoth effort of documenting
his lifelong journey of discovering what makes engineers tick." 
Harvinder Singh, Chairman and Group Managing Director,  
PSI inCONTROL Sdn. Bhd. 
"Engineers are known as problem-solvers. They apply science and maths to solve
problems creatively. Mushtak Al-Atabi has captured the essence of engineering
and made engineers more human by linking the brain and emotional intelligence. 
This well-written book provides coverage of a number of important issues and
techniques not commonly covered in most introductory engineering textbooks. It
would benefit both engineers and non-engineers to read it as it may help them 
solve problems or develop opportunities in the real world."
Mastura Mansor, Vice President-Global Supply Chain, Scomi 
"The challenges of the 21st century will require a whole new kind of engineer: 
engineers who can both design complex technical systems and appreciate their 
interaction with society; engineers who possess both analytical intelligence and
emotional intelligence; engineers who can work with others, take risks, and learn
from failure.  Al-Atabi's text provides engineering students with a thoughtful 
roadmap to grow and develop as this kind of engineer; students and faculty alike 
will benefit from his insights." 
Prof. Mark Somerville, Olin College. Co-author of 'A Whole New Engineer' 
This book provides a thoughtful connection between a hallmark engineering
approach and the psychology of human decisionmaking. Using practical tips, 
summaries of important studies, and personal anecdotes, 'Thinking Like an
Engineer' links relevant contemporary learning research to CDIO. This is a great 
resource for those interested in blending engineering thinking, global competence,
emotional intelligence, and empathetic design.
Jennifer DeBoer, Asst. Prof. of Engineering Education, Purdue University
About the Author 
Professor Mushtak Al-Atabi
 is currently the Dean of School of Engineering at
Taylor's University, Malaysia. A passionate educator, innovator and an agent of 
change, Mushtak always challenges the status quo to unlock value. He pioneered
the use of the CDIO educational framework in Malaysia and offered one of the 
first Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) in Asia in 2013. His online classes
of Entrepreneurship and Success attracted thousands of students from 130
different countries. He speaks at international conferences and consults for 
national and multinational corporations, including banks, manufacturing, and
energy companies, in the areas of leadership, innovation, human development,
performance and technology. Mushtak is the author of 'Driving Performance' and 
the Editor-in-Chief of the 'Journal of Engineering Science and Technology.'  His
research interests include thermofluids, renewable energy, biomechanical
engineering, engineering education and academic leadership. He has numerous
research publications, awards and honours. Mushtak is a Fellow of the Institution
of Mechanical Engineers (UK), a member of the Global Engineering Deans 
Council and an Honorary Chair at the College of Engineering and Physical
Sciences, University of Birmingham.
Think Like an Engineer 
Use Systematic Thinking to Solve Everyday Challenges & 
Unlock the Inherent Values in Them
Dream Big. Be Different. Have Fun 
by 
Mushtak Al-Atabi 
Copyright © 2014 by Mushtak Al-Atabi. Some Rights Reserved. 
Cover art by Chong Voon Lyn
Book typesetting and design by Mike Ooi  
This work is licensed under the 
Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 Generic 
License. To view a copy of this license, send a letter to Creative Commons, 
444 Castro Street, Suite 900, Mountain View, California, 94041, USA or visit 
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5/. 
First Printing: 2014 
ISBN 978-1500972288 
Mushtak Al-Atabi 
School of Engineering 
Taylor's University 
1, Jalan Taylor's 
47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia 
www.thinklikeanengineer.org
Acknowledgement 
Writing this book was a very fulfilling journey. As it is true for all journeys,
arriving to the destination is made possible by the help and generosity of
many people. Here I wish to thank few individuals for their inspiration, help 
and guidance. First of all, I wish to thank my wife, who continues to be loving, 
patient and supportive despite my endless hours at work. I also wish to thank 
my kids, Sarmad, Furat and Ayham for their boundless curiosity, you guys 
are natural engineers. The work of Mike Ooi, my Masters student, in
designing the book, typesetting it and taking most of the photos which was 
essential for getting my point across, and for this I am thankful. I am also 
indebted for Yvonne Lim, my PhD student; and Prof. Paul Peercy, Dean, 
College of Engineering, University of Wisconsin -Madison for proofreading
the manuscript. Gratitude is also due to my students, both on campus and 
online, I have learnt a lot from all of you and I thank you for the successes we
had, the failures we have learnt from, and most of all for sharing your stories. 
A number of my colleagues have contributed to the projects which I have 
described in this book, they have also supported many of my initiatives, no 
matter how crazy the initiatives may sound. I particularly wish to thank 
Edwin Chung, Satesh Namasivayam, Mohammad Hosseini, Chong Chien
Hwa, Veena Doshi, Lim Chin Hong, and Nurhazwani Ismail. Last but not 
least, I wish to acknowledge Chong Voon Lyn for the beautiful design which
graces the cover of this book. 
Contents 
Foreword
1 
Introduction
2 
Chapter 1 
4 
Engineering 
1.1 
What is Engineering?
5 
1.2 CDIO Process 
5 
1.3 
Civilisation, Engineering and Technology
10
1.4 
Future of Humankind and the Grand Challenges
13
1.5 
Society's Regulation of Engineering
17
Chapter 2 
19
Brainology: The Biology, Psychology & Technology of the Brain  
2.1 The Brain 
21
2.2.1 The Old Brain 
24
2.2.2 
The Middle Brain
24
2.2.3 The New Brain 
24
2.2 
The Brain, Learning and Mindset
26
2.3 
How to Craft a Mindset 
30
2.3.1 Brain Rewiring 
30
2.3.2 Language and Thinking
31
2.3.3 
CDIO Process as a Mental Model 
34
2.4 
Thinking and Reasoning
35
2.5 Critical Thinking
36
2.6 
Knowledge and Memory
38
Chapter 3 
42
Emotional Intelligence
3.1 
What is Intelligence? 
43
3.2 Emotional Intelligence
45
3.2.1 Self Awareness
46
3.2.2 Self-Management 
48
3.2.3 Social Awareness
53
3.2.4 Relationship Management
58
Chapter 4 
67
Conceive 
4.1 Preparing to Conceive
69
4.2 
Ideation: The Art of Idea Generation
71
4.2.1 Brainstorming 
71
4.2.2 Random Entry 
74
4.2.3 Trimming
77
4.2.4 
Blue Ocean Strategy
78
4.2.5 Trend Recognition
82
4.2.6 
Biomimicry and Learning from Nature
89
4.3 
Concept Evaluation and Selection
89
Chapter 5 
93
Design
5.1 
Function and Form 
93
5.2  
Design Process
94
5.2.1 System Architecture 
95
5.2.2 Configuration Design
97
5.2.3 Integrated Design
98
5.2.4 Detailed Design 
98
5.3 
Design Optimisation and Trade Offs 
99
5.4 
Other Design Considerations 
100
Chapter 6 
104
Implement
6.1 Hardware Manufacturing Process 
104
6.2  
Software Implementing Process 
105
6.3 
Hardware Software Integration
106
6.4 Testing, Verification, Validation, and Certification
106
Chapter 7 
110
Operate 
7.1 
Sustainable and Safe Operations
110
7.2  
Operations Management 
110
7.3 
Training and Operations
111
7.4 
The Birth of the Checklist
111
7.5 Preventive Maintenance 
115
7.6 
System Improvement and Evolution
115
7.7 
End of Life Issues 
115
7.8 CDIO Case Studies 
115
7.8.1 Taylor's Racing Team
116 
7.8.2 
Women in Engineering
121 
7.8.3 
CDIO Beyond Engineering 
124 
Chapter 8 
126 
Ergonomics: Human Centred Design
8.1 
Design for Ease of Use and Operation
127 
8.1.1 
Affordance, Visibility and Feedback
128 
8.1.2 Constraints
130 
8.1.3 Mapping
131 
8.2  
Anthropometric Measurements 
132 
8.3 
Work Musculo-Skeletal Disorders (WMSDs) 
133 
8.4 Cognitive Ergonomics 
133 
8.4.1 Nudges
134 
8.4.2 Framing
134 
8.4.3 Anchoring
136 
Chapter 9 
137 
Communication and Teamwork 
9.1 Communication Strategies 
137 
9.2  
Process Documentation
145 
9.2.1 Logbooks
145 
9.2.2 
Minutes of Meetings
146 
9.2.3 Technical Reports 
146 
9.2.4 
Communication via Email 
148 
9.2.5 Operation Manuals
149 
9.3 Teamwork
150 
9.3.1 
Selecting the Team Members
150 
9.3.2 Core Competency 
151 
9.3.3 Organisation Chart 
152 
9.3.4 Team Evolution 
153 
9.3.5 
Team Building Exercises
156 
9.4 
Connections and Networking 
156 
Chapter 10 
159 
Managing Projects for Success
10.1 Project Initiating 
160 
10.2  
Project Planning 
162 
10.2.1 
Cost and Resources Estimation
163 
10.2.2 Time Estimation
163 
10.2.3 Risk Management 
168
10.3 Project Executing 
169
10.4 
Project Monitoring and Controlling
169
10.5 Project Closing
169
10.6 
Project Stakeholders Management 
170
Chapter 11 
173
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
11.1 
Philosophy of Entrepreneurship
174
11.2  
Business Value 
176
11.2.1 
Customer Value (Value Proposition) 
176
11.2.2 Shareholder Value
177
11.2.3 Employee Value
178
11.2.4 
Suppliers and Partners Value
178
11.2.5 Society Value
178
11.3 
Business Model (Entrepreneurial Ecosystem) 
178
11.3.1 Customer
180
11.3.2 Channels 
180
11.3.3 
Revenue and Cost 
180
11.3.4 Resources 
181
11.3.5 Business Activities 
181
11.3.6 Partnerships 
181
11.3.7 Competitors 
182
11.3.8 Business Environment 
182
11.4 Business Plan
182
11.5 
CDIO for the Market 
184
11.5.1 
Market Lifecycle of Products and Services 
184
11.5.2 
Market Evolution and Disruptive Innovation
186
11.5.3 Market Penetration
187
11.5.4 
Customers Power in a Digital World
189
11.6 Lean Entrepreneurship
191
11.7 Funding Entrepreneurship
193
Chapter 12 
198
Return on Failure
12.1 Learning and Failure
200
12.2  
Failing Smart
203
12.3 
Failure, Risk and Uncertainty 
204
12.4 
Education and Encouraging Failure
205
Chapter 13 
209 
Structured P Solving 
13.1  
Challenge Identification and Formulation 
209 
13.2 
Root Cause Analysis
210 
13.2.1 The 5 Whys 
210 
13.2.2 
The 4 M Method 
211 
13.2.3 Fishbone Diagram
213 
13.3
Estimation and Quantitative Analysis
214 
13.4 Final Steps
215 
Chapter 14 
216 
Engineering Holistic Education
14.1  
Holistic Education
218 
14.2 
Learning Beyond the School 
220 
14.3 
Mission Zero: A Vision for Higher Education
224 
14.3.1 Zero Tuition Fees 
224 
14.3.2 
Zero Impact on the Job Market
226 
14.4 
Engineering a Culture Change: Happiness Index
226 
Epilogue  
228 
An Invitation
Foreword 
Whether you are a professional engineer, an aspiring engineer, an enthusiast 
of engineering or someone interested in ideas, this book has something to 
offer. Whether you are interested in gaining an insight on how challenges are 
addressed, from the small, to the engineering Grand Challenges of our time, 
this book has something to offer.  From energy, to the environment, to health,
to aerospace, to construction, to information technology, this book takes you 
on a tour of engineering. But it goes much further than that; it considers how 
we conceive ideas, how the brain subconsciously imagines the products and
the operation of engineering. The book highlights, in a new, innovative and 
readable way, how engineering is almost as depended upon emotional 
intelligence, as it is on the principles of mechanics. 
This book is not only about "What is Engineering?" many books have
attempted to answer this question, but goes much further and asks the
question of "What makes Engineering?". It describes the melting pot of 
ingredients - the materials and inspiration from the natural world; the human 
spirit for challenge, change and the impetus to mould the world for our
benefit; the human fascination for art, art form and creativity; our ability to
think, abstractly, creatively and with a purpose; and finally our desire to 
influence the world around us.  
In addressing these issues, Prof. Mushtak Al-Atabi takes you on an
exciting tour that delves into the history of human inspiration, motivation 
and invention, the innate desire to solve challenges and the products that 
influence our daily lives and change the way we view world around us, now 
and into the future. 
This book is an example, in its own right, of challenging thought, 
stimulating the mind of the reader. Whatever your background, and
whatever your training, this book will make you think! 
Prof. Nigel P. Weatherill, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive
Liverpool John Moores University
Introduction
Introduction 
I have been contemplating writing a textbook to accompany the project-based 
learning courses that I have been teaching for the past 15 years. As a matter 
fact, the first drafts of the book I was thinking of are saved on floppy disks 
and I do not have the technology to read them anymore! This perhaps is a 
good thing as it gave me the opportunity to keep evolving what the book 
should be about and how it is pitched. I started with the idea of writing a 
book that outlines the skills and techniques needed by engineers and 
engineering students to run successful design projects. Supervising hundreds 
of engineering projects myself, I now can attest that skills and techniques for 
design are necessary, but not enough to make a good design engineer. What 
I experienced again and again is that successful design projects are often 
driven by a powerful dream that is backed by endless passion. 
Working with student teams and sharing their moments of triumph as 
well as their moments of defeat, my perspective on design, engineering and 
project-based learning has profoundly changed. My current frame of mind is 
that the best way to prepare graduates for life is to create an environment in 
which they can find their passion and cultivate a growth mindset that views 
failure as a necessary prerequisite for success and learning. An environment 
where students can dream big, be different and have fun is the prerequisite 
for them to be able to develop self-awareness, positive attitudes and 
confidence that they can contribute to making the world a better place. Once 
this foundation is laid, provision of skills and techniques can go a long way
to developing effective and sustainable designs. 
Besides my academic and teaching duties, I also consulted for, and 
trained, executives from multi-national corporations. The clients I served
ranged from technology firms to energy companies and banks. What I noticed 
was that the clients with non-engineering backgrounds often appreciate the 
engineering structure that I bring when I work with them to address the 
challenges they are working on. Some clients were even surprised with the 
way we train engineers and shared with me that this should be the way all 
education is conducted. This book is about how to train an engineering 
mindset in a project based learning environment. However, it is ultimately 
about human achievement and it can be easily used at any level including
self-help. The aim here is to start transforming, or rather bringing back, higher 
education to have its goal to be the achievement of human potential, with 
obtaining employment and economic freedom as part of it, rather than having 
employment as the goal in and of itself.
While this book is primarily about engineering and how engineers think, 
address technical challenges and realise opportunities, the content in the book
is written in such a way that it can be used by students and professionals in 
any field to develop a systematic approach to address the challenges in almost
any field from marketing to medicine.
The book is based on the intuitive process of CDIO (Conceive, Design, 
Implement, Operate) which traces the lifecycle of a product, service or 
process. It also draws on the latest brain and thinking research, making it 
applicable in many human interactions. The CDIO process was initially
developed as a framework to reform engineering education to enable the
universities to produce "engineers that can engineer".  
This book is aimed to be both a textbook for engineering and science 
students as well as a general read for anyone who is interested in engineering, 
system and critical thinking and engineering education. Engineering here is 
presented in the wider meaning of the word when it refers to cleverly and 
creatively orchestrating resources and components to provide value-adding
solutions. To achieve this, the book features chapters dedicated to thinking 
and how the brain works, as well as emotional intelligence and practical
techniques to cultivate positive attitudes, besides the systematic Conceive, 
Design, Implement and Operate chapters. 
The ultimate aspiration of the book is to provide a practical and concise, 
yet holistic framework that can be used by anyone to solve challenges and 
add value while maintaining a balanced view of life. It also aspires to embrace 
the evolutionary nature of the creative process while providing the systematic 
scaffolding that ensures eventual convergence on the suitable solution. 
Chapter 1 
Engineering 
"Manufacturing is more than just putting parts together. It's coming up 
with ideas, testing principles and perfecting the engineering, as well as 
final assembly." 
Sir James Dyson, Founder of Dyson Company
"The path to the CEO's office should not be through the CFO's office,
and it should not be through the marketing department. It needs to be 
through engineering and design." 
Elon Musk, CEO & CTO of Tesla 
CEO & Chief Product Architect of Tesla Motors
Engineering is old; as old as human civilisation itself. It was born out of 
the need of humans to modify their environment to provide their basic needs 
such as food, shelter and security. It has always been largely motivated by the 
human desire to have a better, easier and more comfortable life. Some of the
ancient engineering marvels such as the wheel and the pyramids are still with 
us today and they will be around to amaze future generations for millennia 
to come. These marvels were achieved by talented individuals who were 
clever enough to manipulate the laws of nature to achieve incredible feats. 
While the ancient engineers did not go to universities and graduate with 
engineering degrees, they still needed to observe, study and hone their skills, 
to be able to achieve what they have achieved. Today, Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education has developed into an
intentional and systematic field of study. STEM is considered, the world over,
by policy makers, the industry and the community at large as being an
extremely important bastion for economic prosperity, stability and security. 
While engineering thinking and mindset are often associated with the 
creation of technological solutions, clearly it can be used well beyond that. As 
engineering thinking and mindset are credited with seeing the non-obvious 
solutions and opportunities, it can be applied to a variety of world challenges
in management, business, policy making and healthcare to yield high value. 
As a matter of fact, the Business Insider reported in 2013 that "33% of the S&P 
500 CEOs' undergraduate degrees are in engineering, and only 11% are in
business administration". 
This book will try to outline and explain the engineering mindset and 
thinking techniques in a manner that is accessible and useful both to
engineers and non-engineers so they can apply them in both engineering and
non-engineering contexts. 
1.1 
What is Engineering? 
Engineering is the professional discipline that is responsible for adding value
through systematically applying the principles of science and mathematics to 
Conceive, Design, Implement and Operate (CDIO) products, services, 
technologies, systems and solutions that improve the quality of life. Using the 
CDIO process, engineers are able to use resources such as raw materials, 
energy and information to develop useful products supporting economic 
growth in a wide range of human activities. 
Today there are numerous engineering disciplines to address the wide 
variety of industrial needs and economic applications. These include
aeronautical, civil, chemical, computer, electrical, electronic, mechanical, and
petroleum engineering. Emerging engineering disciplines, such as 
biomedical and mechatronic engineering; are developed in response to the
increasing complexity and multidisciplinary nature of the world we live in 
today. 
1.2 CDIO Process 
It is said that technology is the manifestation of our dreams. This describes
engineering very accurately as it takes our dreams and makes them a reality 
through the Conceive, Design, Implement, Operate (CDIO) process. The 
CDIO process reflects the life cycle of technology-based products and services, 
and the best way to demonstrate this process is through the journey of a 
product. Since I like airplanes, I shall choose the A380 as an example to
demonstrate the CDIO process. 
The A380 is the world's largest passenger plane. Manufactured by 
Airbus, the plane has a wingspan of 80 meters and is able to reach a speed of
over 1000 km/hour.  For the A380 to be able to serve its purpose, countless 
engineers, designers, technicians, managers, financial experts and lawyers 
needed to work on Conceiving, Designing, Implementing and Operating it. 
The Airbus A380 (Source: Wiki Commons)
Everything that is intentionally made by a person starts as a thought in
the brain. Hence the first part of the process of making anything is to 
Conceive it. I presume that the idea to make the world's largest passenger 
plane was toyed with by the Airbus technical and management team and 
many discussions took place before approving the idea. The discussions
would have taken into account the economic outlook of the market, and the 
customer needs and desires, as well as the technological possibilities and 
limitations.  In the context of engineering a product, service or a system this 
stage is called Conceiving. We can Conceive an entirely novel product, such 
as a new fuel or a new method to communicate, a small part of a bigger 
system, or we can Conceive a new version of an existing product, such as a 
plane that will have the same basic components like any other similar plane. 
So the Conceiving stage of an A380 will result in an "idea" of building a large 
plane that will serve a certain segment of the market. This stage requires a 
thorough understanding of the business, regulatory, and technological 
context; and can involve sophisticated teamwork and various focus groups to
enable the complex decision making required to venture into such a long term 
commitment to make a passenger aeroplane. 
Conceiving the plane as a super-system will set into action numerous 
processes to CDIO subsystems necessary to make the plane a reality; however, 
we shall focus on the plane itself to demonstrate the CDIO process. 
Subsystems include airframe, jet engine, avionics, etc.
With the Conceiving stage completed, the Design stage can start. Here
engineers will be making a series of complex technological calculations, tests, 
decisions, and compromises. There will be many conflicting requirements to 
consider, including safety, technical, economical, and legal requirements. 
Calculations and experiments will aid decisions on considerations including
how big the plane will be and how many engines it will have. A key feature 
of the Design stage is to anticipate where and when any part of the plane may 
fail and to try to prevent this. Predicting, pre-empting and preventing failure 
are important skills that engineers need to hone to be able to build reliable
products that are safe to use time and time again. Interestingly, in order to 
prevent future catastrophic failure, engineers need to ensure that they push 
product parts and components to the limit and make them fail. This way they 
will understand the limits of safe operation of the systems they are making. 
To achieve this, engineers make airplane models that they push to the limit 
in wind tunnels, and computer models that they simulate in computers using
specialised software. Eventually the Design stage will yield detailed 
engineering drawings that outline the sizes, materials and specifications of all 
the parts of the plane. 
Notice that after completing the Design stage, the plane is still far from 
being a reality. It has moved from being a thought or an idea to being a series 
of drawings and lists of materials on papers and computers. Our plane is now 
ready to come to life - to be Implemented. The Implementation stage is when
engineers take their designs and transform them into real products. In the 
case of the A380, engineers need to decide how, where and when each part of
the plane will be made and tested and how it will be integrated into the supersystem (the plane). While the final assembly and testing of the plane takes 
place at Airbus factories in Toulouse, France, different parts are
manufactured all around the world. For example, the jet engines of the plane 
are made by Rolls Royce in the UK; the tyres are made by other tyre 
manufacturers, and so on. Fast forward and we have a plane ready for 
delivery, complete with custom paint and interiors as requested by the 
customer. But the process does not end here. 
Engineers still need to think of how the plane will be Operated safely
after its delivery, this is done through the preparation of service and
maintenance standards, as well as training and licensing programmes for the 
staff that will maintain the plane while it is being operated by the airline. 
Modern engineering is pushing the limits through thinking of how the 
airplane can be modified and upgraded while being operational, as well as 
having plans on how its parts will be recycled when it is eventually retired. 
CDIO of an Aeroplane (Source: Wiki Commons) 
I hope that this quick account has shed some light on the CDIO
(Conceive-Design-Implement-Operate) process. It is useful to mention here 
that the account provided above is a macro-CDIO, within it each and every 
component of the plane has been through its own CDIO process as well. The 
process is logical and can be used by everyone to bring new ideas to life. It 
can be used to make a toaster, a car or a space shuttle.  
The CDIO process can also be deployed when developing nonengineering products. Think of a new surgical procedure or a new insurance
product. Both are Conceived, Designed, Implemented and Operated. Part of
the agenda of this book is to "sell" the CDIO process as a thinking system that 
can be used well beyond traditional engineering realms. 
When working on each stage of the CDIO process, engineers ask 
themselves the following questions in relation to the product they are making 
and how are they making it. 
1.
Is what I am making desirable? Does the customer need it, want it and
like it? Does it solve a challenge or satisfy a need?
2.
Is it economically viable? Will the customer be willing to pay for it? Is 
there a way to make it cheaper, more productive and add more value?
3.
Is it feasible? Is the technology to make it available?
4.
Is it ethical and legal? Does making or selling it infringe on any law or 
intellectual property (IP)?
5.
How can I make it safe for both those who make it and those who use it?
6.
How can I make it easy to make and use? 
7.
How can I reduce its impact on the environment even when it is no longer
in use?
This book has a dedicate chapter for each part of the CDIO process. Each
stage will be explained in further detail, and the tools to help us better 
Conceive, Design, Implement and Operate will be shared. 
It is worth iterating here that the CDIO framework, at its essence, is a 
systematic and critical thinking framework. Practicing the CDIO process will 
build mental habits that can be used in solving everyday challenges and 
unlocking the inherent opportunities stored in these challenges. It provides a 
balanced way that embraces the iterative and evolutionary nature of the
creative process while maintaining a systematic framework that ensures the 
fulfilment of the set objectives. In short, whether the challenge being 
addressed is in business, marketing, technology, entrepreneurship, academia 
or even in one's personal life, CDIO process can provide an effective way to
yield a solution. 
1.3 
Civilisation, Engineering and Technology 
Since 2.6 million years ago, when humans began altering their environment
using stone tools, major changes that have occurred have always been 
associated with one form of technology or another. Technological revolutions
are marked by rendering a scarce resource (material, energy, information,
knowledge) more widely available. This often is accompanied by far-reaching
economic, political and social consequences. Technological revolutions bring
about radical changes so that, literally, life is never the same again after their
introduction. Throughout history, a number of technological revolutions 
shaped the world that we live in. A list of these revolutions is given below. 
1.
Putting fire under control (800,000 BC) 
Controlling fire was a great technological feat. It gave humans access to 
energy when it's most needed, i.e., for warmth and cooking food; which 
in turn enabled humans to extract more calories from the food they eat, 
hence improving their survival chances. 
2.
Agricultural Revolution (8000 BC) 
Unfolded in Mesopotamia, modern day Iraq, mastering agriculture was 
a real technological triumph. It was the result of putting huge amounts 
of knowledge and observation into a practical use. Agriculture 
permitted humans to get more out of the land they lived on and aided 
the formation of the first cities. The same piece of land, when used for
agriculture, can support far more people compared to the same area 
when used for hunting and gathering. Living together in cities had a 
huge impact on the way civilisation evolved as it enabled the 
concentration of cognitive capital that led to the accumulation, growth 
and recording of knowledge, which was the basis for all future human 
development. 
3.
Invention of the Wheel (3500 BC) 
Although it is very difficult to imagine our world without wheels, there 
was a time when there were no wheels to go around. Transportation was 
very difficult and ineffective. Archaeological evidence supports that the 
wheel was first invented in Mesopotamia as well.  As it is true for other 
technological evolutions, the invention of the wheel set humanity in
motion in many ways. This paved the way to many future human
developments and revolutions. 
4.
Scientific Revolution (1534-1700 AD) 
Although the idea of the printing press appeared in different parts of the 
world, the first use of a printing press to print books is attributed to
Johannes Gutenberg, who used the printing press in 1450 AD to print 
copies of the Bible. Coupled with other innovations, this technology 
helped unlock the resource of information as more people could have
access to books, which used to be very scarce and expensive. Continuous
recording, organising and refining of information into knowledge and 
spreading it led to scientific reasoning and the questioning of the 
religious views on how the universe works. The publication of De 
revolutionibus orbium coelestium (On the Revolutions of the Heavenly
Spheres) by Nicolaus Copernicus and De humani corporis fabrica (On the 
Fabric of the Human body) by Andreas Vesalius are often cited as the 
marking of the beginning of the scientific revolution and the age of 
reason. This tradition of scientific reasoning opened the doors for 
millions of people to question, understand, and build on the knowledge 
developed by others. 
5.
Industrial Revolution (1712 AD) 
The development of the steam engine led to the dawn of the industrial 
revolution. Energy stored in coal can now be unlocked and used to
power trains and machines that decreased the cost of production and 
brought about the era of mass production and consumerism with all of 
its economic, political, social and cultural implications. As is true for all 
true technological revolutions, the industrial revolution had far-reaching 
political and economic consequences. 
6.
Digital Revolution (1950 AD) 
Programmable machines are directly connected to the development of 
large knitting machines that used punched cards to automatically 
operate machines to produce pre-designed patterns. The first 
programmable computer was designed in 1936, but the 1950s are 
generally accepted as the beginning of the digital revolution era that we 
still live in today where computers became so ubiquitous that we do not 
even feel their presence while they take care of our cars, fridges and
washing machines.
7.
Information & Communication Revolution
As the computers became more powerful, cheap and easy to use, they 
ushered in the digital era which is synonymous with the Internet and the
World Wide Web. The information and communication revolution 
changed the way we work, study, trade, communicate and entertain 
ourselves. This created a virtual world that is now so vast, it competes 
with the real world, and there are researchers who predict that the digital 
elements of our lives will end up redefining what it is meant by being a
human. 
8.
Knowledge Revolution
The oversupply of huge amounts of information free of charge and on 
demand is changing the world beyond recognition. This is especially 
true in areas of education where education systems are evolving to 
reflect the reality that education is about constructing knowledge rather
than just remembering facts. The knowledge revolution is correlated
with the rise of knowledge economy where information is constructed 
and organised into knowledge that can be utilised to create economic 
value. Knowledge management is also allowing us to gradually use
machines to perform tasks that need complex decision making. 
9.
Green Revolution
The colour of the 21st Century is green. As sustainability takes centre 
stage, the green economy and green development are moving towards 
the mainstream of the political, cultural, technological and educational 
debate. Being sustainable is gradually becoming a requirement for all 
our activities, and this is having a major impact and changing the way
we do many things including the way we travel, manufacture goods and 
produce our energy and food. 
The above is a brief account of the story of humankind from a 
technological perspective. It is clear that technology has played, and will 
continue to play, key roles in advancing the human cause. This needs to be
balanced with a holistic personal and professional development to ensure
that we have the wisdom to use the power unlocked by technology in a 
constructive and sustainable manner. 
1.4 
Future of Humankind and the Grand Challenges 
Now, more than any other time in the history of humankind, engineers are 
required to provide solutions to ensure the survival of the human race. The 
National Academy for Engineering (USA) identified 14 Grand Challenges
that we need to address in the 21st Century to have a chance to make it into 
the 22nd Century. These Grand Challenges are listed below and they can be
used to guide not only engineers as they pursue their careers, but also 
business leaders, policy makers and educators as they go about making the 
complex decisions needed on daily basis. Awareness of these Grand
Challenges can provide us with a strategic horizon when making decisions 
related to career, business, policy and education.
Energy and Environment 
1.
Make solar energy economical 
The sun represents a wonderful source of energy that cannot be matched 
by anything humans have made thus far. Although only a fraction of the
solar energy arrives to the earth's surface, it is sufficient to provide 
10,000 times the energy needed to power all the commercial activities 
that the planet needs. But there is a catch, solar technology is not 
economical yet! Current photovoltaic cells are only 10-20% efficient, and
the cost of manufacturing them are still relatively high. Another 
challenge that is associated with solar energy is the inadequacy of energy
storage media to capture the solar energy and store it and transport it to 
be used when and where it is most needed. Clearly making solar energy 
economical is a pressing need and this will continue to captivate and
motivate scientists and engineers in this century. 
2.
Provide energy from fusion 
Fusion is how the sun makes its energy. Single proton nuclei of two 
hydrogen isotopes are fused together to produce the heavier nucleus of
helium and a neutron. In the process some mass is converted into energy
following Einstein's equation E=mc2. Although fusion has been
demonstrated on a small scale, the engineering challenge is to build a 
reactor that can withstand the huge pressure and temperature associated 
with the fusion reaction. As hydrogen is the most abundant material in
the universe, you can imagine how much energy we can have when the
technology surrounding fusion is mastered. 
3.
Develop methods for carbon sequestration
Commercial and industrial human activities are often associated with 
emission of carbon dioxide, among other gasses. This is now becoming 
a challenge as carbon dioxide is contributing to climate change. Carbon 
sequestration involves storing carbon dioxide away from the 
atmosphere. There are a numbers of ways to achieve this, including
underground and underwater storage, and storage in depleted oil and 
gas reservoirs. The technology is still expensive; however, this area is a 
hotbed for innovation where researchers are looking for solutions that
can convert carbon dioxide from waste to wealth, i.e., converting it into
something useful rather than just storing it away. 
4.
Manage the nitrogen cycle 
Nitrogen represents around 79% of the atmospheric air, and it represents
a very important substance for life as it is an essential component of 
amino acids which in turn are building blocks for proteins. Living 
organisms, including humans cannot utilise atmospheric nitrogen 
directly, nitrogen needs to be combined with carbon before it can be 
absorbed by living organisms. This important stage is done by the plants
we eat with the help of some microorganisms. To complete the nitrogen 
cycle, some organisms use nitrogen nutrients as a source of energy and
return nitrogen molecules back to the atmosphere. With more and more 
food production, humans are putting more nitrogen-based fertilisers
into the environment, and these are not being converted back into free 
nitrogen. These nitrogen-based compounds are contributing to the 
environmental pollution. Engineers need to devise innovative ways to 
improve the efficiency of various nitrogen related activities to ensure 
that nitrogen-based fertilisers are minimally and effectively used and 
any unused fertilisers are converted back into free nitrogen. 
5.
Provide access to clean water 
It is heart wrenching that 1 out of every 6 people living today does not 
have access to clean running water. Access to clean running water and 
adequate sanitation is an important requirement to leading a healthy life. 
Although 70% of the earth is covered with water, most of this water is 
not suitable for human consumption, either because it is polluted or is 
salty seawater. Engineers can play a key role in providing access to clean 
water for both drinking and other activities, such as agriculture, through 
the development of technologies that can help purify polluted water and 
prevent more water from becoming unsuitable for human use. 
Health
6.
Advance health informatics 
Information technology has the potential to improve healthcare and
reduce its cost. This can be done through digitising existing medical
records for individuals and groups, and producing a robust health
information system that enables health professionals to detect, track and 
respond to health emergencies and pandemics. This area will continue
to be a fertile field for innovation and value creation, especially as sizable 
proportions of national budgets are dedicated to healthcare. 
7.
Engineer better medicines 
Although every person is unique and different from others, the medicine
prescribed by our doctors to address a given disease is often the same. 
The development of equipment for fast genetic profiling and organismspecific antibiotics can help revolutionise personalised medicine, and 
biomedical engineers are expected to play a key role in this. Engineers 
can also contribute towards the creation of medicines and treatments 
that target only the diseased tissue, reducing side effects and speeding
up recovery. One of the promising areas of development is the work 
engineers are currently doing with surgeons on brain implants that 
enable disabled individuals regain control over their body parts. 
Security 
8.
Prevent nuclear terror
Engineers have the responsibility to protect society against the potential 
threat of terrorist attacks using radioactive materials. This is mainly done 
through securing radioactive waste and preventing unauthorised access 
to it as well as developing technologies to detect and respond to any 
attack. 
9.
Secure cyberspace
Cyberspace is a very important domain in which we are spending an 
increasing amount of time and performing more and more activities, 
especially trade and communication. With highly sensitive national and 
personal information, as well as billions of dollars in transactions going 
through the Internet, cyberspace is becoming a field where criminals and
terrorists operate. Computer and software engineers need to develop 
solutions that make online interactions safer for everybody.
10.
Restore and improve urban infrastructure 
Infrastructure systems are the foundation on which our civilisation is 
built. They include water, sewer, roads, power, and telecommunication 
systems. Engineers are facing the huge challenge of modernising the 
infrastructure systems for cities to enable them to continue to support 
the increasing human population. 
Learning and Computation
11.
Reverse engineer the brain 
The human brain represents one of the final frontiers of human 
discovery. It is highly effective and efficient, and no computer can match 
the capabilities of the brain. Learning how the brain thinks, learns, and 
stores and retrieves memories and information, will have tremendous 
impact on our capability to build powerful and efficient computers. 
12.
Enhance virtual reality
Although virtual reality is often associated with computer games and 
entertainment, enhancing virtual reality can have a great positive impact 
on the more practical aspects of our lives. It can help engineers design
new products and allow users to test them before making them. 
Surgeons can perform virtual operations before cutting into real people. 
13.
Advance personalised learning 
We all learn differently. Technologies are increasingly available to allow 
personalisation of the learning experience, taking into account the
different learning styles, paces and preferences of different learners. 
Currently web based courses and Massive Open Online Courses
(MOOCs) represent the beginning of this wave, and the future carries 
more exciting possibilities, including real time monitoring of brain
activities of learners to ensure the most effective and rewarding learning 
experience. 
14.
Engineer the tools of scientific discovery
Engineers will continue to Conceive, Design, Implement and Operate 
tools and equipment that will enable scientific discovery, allowing us to 
advance our knowledge and understanding of the universe. From 
telescopes to explore the far corners of the universe, to microscopes that
allow us to study the smallest molecules; and from rockets to explore 
outer space, to remotely operated vehicles to probe the depths of the
ocean, engineers will continue to play key roles of building the tools of
scientific discovery. 
1.5 
Society's Regulation of Engineering 
Engineering is an important profession. Engineers often make technical
decisions that can impact the safety of the public as well as the allocation of 
huge amounts of money. Just like other professional practices such as 
medicine, accountancy and law, the practice of engineering is legally 
regulated by professional bodies. These engineering professional bodies 
perform a number of very important duties, which include licensing
engineers to practice through regulation of their membership; accreditation 
of engineering degree programmes offered by universities and ensuring that 
these programmes meet the necessary professional requirements; and 
approval of the technical standards used for designing different engineering
components.
Chapter 2 
Brainology: The Biology, Psychology & Technology of the 
Brain  
"The chief function of the body is to carry the brain around." 
Thomas A. Edison
"There is nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it so."
William Shakespeare 
"My greatest challenge has been to change the mindset of people.
Mindsets play strange tricks on us. We see things the way our minds 
have instructed our eyes to see." 
Muhammad Yunus, Nobel Laureate
Have you ever gazed at the moon or the clouds and happened to see faces or 
other patterns? If you have experienced this, do not despair; you are not alone!
The human brain is hardwired to make sense of the world, and recognising
patterns through comparing what it perceives to the patterns stored in it. The 
brain takes in stimuli from the environment and creates the perceived reality
using the mental models available in the mind. The brain responds to stimuli, 
which can be either emotional or physical. Physical stimuli include visual, 
auditory, tactile, taste or smell. All these stimuli are converted into electrochemical signals that the brain can process by comparing them to stored 
mental models. These mental models represent thinking patterns or 
templates in the mind that our brains use to understand the world and others 
around us, and how we relate to the bigger scheme of things. Bombarded 
with continuous stream of stimuli, mental models help impose order on the 
chaos of the world and select the stimuli that are most relevant and important.
Mental models are simply the way we perceive the world. We are born 
with some mental models hardwired in our brains, while other mental 
models develop and get hardwired through learning, practice, experiences, 
attitudes and interactions with our environment and other individuals 
around us. Examples of mental models that are hardwired into our brain
upon birth are the thinking templates which enable us to recognise and avoid 
danger and those which enable us to quickly recognise faces. While very
useful to enable quick thinking and making the brain the formidable thinking 
machine that it is, mental models may come at a price. Sometimes we may 
unconsciously perceive danger in a non-dangerous situation or see faces in 
random patterns such as cloud formations or on the surface of the moon. 
Mental models are continuously acquired and hardwired as we go through 
life. They give us our mental habits and attitudes and ultimately form our 
mindsets. A mindset is a very important individual trait. It represents our 
character and governs how we generally perceive life. We may have a happy, 
positive and optimistic mindset or a negative and pessimistic mindset. 
Optimistic mindsets are often geared towards growth, enabling those who 
adopt them to continuously learn, transform and recognise opportunities. 
As mentioned earlier, everything that is man-made starts as an idea in
the brain, hence it is appropriate to dedicate a short chapter to this wonderful 
organ. It is also fitting to start with a caveat that we know very little about the 
brain and how it operates. Interestingly enough, reverse engineering the 
brain is one of the Grand Challenges for Engineering identified by the 
National Academy of Engineering in the United States. In this chapter, I will
try to summarise the available knowledge about brain biology (hardware), 
psychology and thinking (software), and propose the CDIO process as the 
technology or thinking technique that allows us to effectively use our brains. 
This knowledge of the biology, psychology and technology can have a 
profound impact on developing effective thinking skills that can result in
high performance in study, work and life. In her book 'Mindset: The New 
Psychology of Success', Carol Dweck shared that when students are educated 
about the brain and how it works they learn more effectively. She cited an 
experiment where, at the beginning of the school term, students were
randomly divided into two groups. One group was given a two-hour 
workshop about the brain and how it works, while the other group was not 
given this additional workshop. The results were amazing! The students who 
attended the workshop learned better and achieved better end-of-term results
compared to those who did not attend the workshop. It is worth mentioning 
here that the teachers, who taught the students throughout the semester, were 
not aware of brain workshop, just to ensure that there was no bias in the
treatment. 
I personally make it a point to start my courses, both with my 
engineering students and corporate training clients, with sections on how the 
brain works. The hypothesis is that all learning takes place in the brain and 
understanding the brain a little bit better will help the learner select and adopt 
suitable learning techniques and strategies.
2.1 The brain 
Biologically speaking, the basic building blocks of the brain tissue are neurons. 
These neurons are responsible for transferring electro-chemical signals to and
from each other. These electro-chemical activities, in turn, are responsible for 
the brain functions and the emergence of the mind. Neurological research has 
made many advances in recent decades, backed by technological wonders 
such as FMRI (Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging) machines, where the 
brain of an individual is scanned while that individual is performing a certain 
mental task. Knowing which part of the brain is engaged when each type of 
mental task is performed, we now can map different areas of the brain to the 
variety of activities that we perform and roughly know which part of the 
brain is activated when we are involved with a certain mental activity.
The human brain represents a very flexible system. It has a huge growth 
and learning potential and it continues to change throughout the lifetime of 
an individual, responding to different challenges and activities and
continuously forming new connections between its different neurons. 
Neurons are responsible for transferring electro-chemical signals within the 
nervous system, enabling the emergence of the mind and the computing
power of the brain to manifest itself as thoughts, decisions, memories, 
emotions and physical activities. The flexibility of the brain is an attribute of 
the possibility of creating billions of combinations of connections between 
brain neurons as we learn new things and have repeated experiences. It is 
now well established that we can "sculpt" our brains to be happy, positive 
and successful through intentional actions as well as mental and emotional 
exercises.  
The Amazing Human Brain 
One way to imagine the neurons in the brain is to imagine a bunch of 
electrical wires. Some of these wires have insulations but a considerable
number of them are not well insulated. Because of this, neurons leak electrical 
signals to neighbouring neurons as the signal passes through, weakening 
them. That is why when we learn a new skill, it feels awkward in the
beginning, but as we keep on repeating and practicing, a substance called 
myelin starts to form around the pathway of the electrical signal as it travels. 
Myelin is an electrical insulator and as more layers of myelin are wrapped
around the neuron pathway, an equivalent of a signal highway is created,
where very high speed neuron firing occurs. This is the reason why we get
better at doing things as we practice them, and why it is difficult to change 
habits. In neuroscience, the saying goes like this "neurons that fire together, 
wire together." 
Myelin formation starts at the 14th week of the embryonic development 
and continues throughout life. The growth of myelin in embryonic stage 
ensures the "programming" of the basic capabilities that an infant will need
upon birth. Compared to babies of other animals, human babies are born 
more vulnerable and with little capabilities; a baby gazelle, for example, is 
born able to walk while a human baby needs a year before it can walk. This 
is an indication that the neuro-circuitry for walking is yet to be myelinated in 
humans upon birth. Although this may seem as a disadvantage at first, in
actual fact the lack of myelination at birth is a powerful advantage. It gives 
the human brain unlimited potential as we are able to programme our brains 
through inducing the formation of myelin through neuron firing. This makes 
the human brain highly adaptable and enables individuals to master a highly 
diversified number of skills and professions. 
Myelin is Like the Insulation around Electric Wires
So whether learning how to play golf, how to play the piano, or how to
drive a car, what we are doing is building myelin around the pathways of the
electrical signals needed to control the muscles responsible for performing 
these tasks. Myelination results in better, faster and more targeted neuron
firing sequences, and hence mastery of the skill. Interestingly, the same 
process works for intentional and non-intentional actions, so if we keep on
repeating a routine long enough, myelination will lead to the wiring of our
habits and mental models.  
If we take a brain cross section along the body's plane of symmetry, three 
distinctive regions of the brain are identified. These regions are named the
old brain, the middle brain and the new brain. If you imagine the brain to be
a cone of ice-cream, the first scoop will represent the old brain; the second 
scoop will represent the middle brain while the new brain will be represented 
by the third scoop. Although different areas of the brains can be categorised 
in other more detailed ways, this categorisation of the brain is more useful in 
the context of this book. It is useful here to mention that thinking is a very 
complex process and often even the simplest decision involves multiple areas 
of the brain working together. Now let us examine the main features of each
brain. 
2.1.1 
The Old Brain 
It is also called the reptilian brain because it is very similar to the brain of the 
reptiles. In this part of the brain, the basic instincts are hardwired. The old
brain is rather automatic and it gets activated in the event of danger and lifethreatening conditions. We have very little control over this area of the brain. 
The old brain is responsible for the split second decisions we make when a
car is about to hit us, or if we suspect that a venomous snake is about to attack 
us. So the old brain is all about survival; it gets really activated when we feel 
danger and it quickly responds to negative stimuli. If we were to briefly
describe it, we could say it is fast and selfish, because it acts quickly and only
in self-interest. 
2.1.2 The Middle Brain
This part of the brain is where emotions reside and are managed. It is 
responsible for processing how we feel and it is not capable of processing 
language. This is may be the reason why we often find it difficult to express 
our feelings and emotions in words. Contrary to the common belief, humans 
make many decisions based on emotional rather than rational reasons. From 
a computing point of view, this simplifies and quickens the process of
decision-making. This has huge implications for politicians, marketers and
educators who would like to influence the behaviour of others. We vote, buy
and learn when we "like" what we see. 
2.1.3 
The New Brain
This part of the brain is mainly responsible for high level reasoning such as 
mathematics and language. It is very analytical and slows the process of 
decision making. It is the rational brain. 
The Old, Middle and New Brain. 
As mentioned earlier, contrary to the common belief, the emotional brain 
plays a key role in the decisions that we make. This was illustrated by the case
of a patient known in the neuroscience literature as Elliot. Elliot had a surgery 
to remove a small tumour from his brain. His doctors were very pleased to
note that the surgery did not impact Elliot's cognitive capacities or speech. 
However, strange things started happening to Elliot after the operation. He 
started to endlessly debate each and every detail in his life. Decisions such as
which shirt to wear or which way to take to work took Elliot hours to ponder. 
Even simple things like whether to use a black or blue pen became stressful 
decisions, and Elliot weighed all their pros and cons before settling on the 
colour to use. Elliot was eventually sacked by his employer and his wife
divorced him. Closer examination by neuroscientists revealed that although
Elliot's new brain was doing a good job at the rational side of decision making, 
the surgery somehow disconnected Elliot from his emotional brain. Losing 
that "gut feeling", or "like or dislike" feeling that we all have when faced with 
everyday life decisions, rendered Elliot incapable of making any decision. In 
order to lead happy and successful lives, it is essential that all parts of our 
brain work together in harmony. It is also important to understand the 
limitations of our thinking so that we can improve its quality.   
The above quick and brief description will prove useful as we explore 
areas such as emotional intelligence, communication, teamwork, human 
interaction and ergonomic designs later in this book. It is useful to reiterate 
here that the brain works like an orchestra with all parts of it contributing to 
the thinking symphony. So the three regions of the brain are always 
collaborating to respond to the continuous stream of stimuli that we call life.
2.2 
The Brain, Learning and Mindset 
As discussed earlier, the brain works through generating mental models that
impose order on chaos and deduce patterns to compare with previous 
experiences, impacting the way we perceive ourselves, others and interpret 
the world around us. Different people have different mental models, and that
is why we perceive the same events differently. For example, if two 
individuals are learning how to play a violin and both of them struggle
equally with their learning, that struggle is nothing but an event that is 
happening to both of them as they push the limits of what they are capable 
of. Now each individual will use his or her mental models to interpret this 
event (the struggle). One mental model may be "playing the violin needs 
more practice; if I persevere long enough, I will be able to play beautiful 
musical pieces in due course". Another mental model may be "this is difficult 
for me. I do not have the talent for music; I will never be able to learn how to
play the violin." It is clear how each mental model will drive each individual
on a totally different path. The collection of mental models that we myelinate
and cultivate result in our overall mindset and attitudes that drive how we 
perceive the world, our role in that world, and how we respond to the 
challenges we encounter. When faced with a new situation, one individual 
may see adversity, while another may see opportunity, depending on the 
mental model that they adopt.  
Entrepreneurship, innovation and creativity are simply mental models 
that are adopted by individuals. Entrepreneurs, innovative, creative and 
highly motivated individuals cultivate the ability to generate positive mental 
models that are crafted to see opportunities in any new situation (just like 
seeing a face on the moon). Being able to see the opportunity even in adversity
is literally the ability to generate positive and flexible mental models to see 
the world through. In his book 'Outliers', Malcolm Gladwell studied a 
number of high performing individuals including Bill Gates and Tiger Woods.
He concluded that to achieve mastery level in a major completive discipline 
such as sport, art, science or business, individuals need to dedicate 10,000 
hours of focused practice and training. This level of commitment and 
consistency is definitely an indication and precursor of the growth mindset. 
Whenever we see a master performing, we are tempted to think that the 
master is talented and lucky to be able to perform at this level. The fact of the 
matter is that mastery is always a product of a mindset that sees the struggle 
in new challenges as a stepping-stone towards progress and high 
performance. This is true for golf, chess, physics or music. All masters practice 
their craft religiously, building and strengthening myelin layers over the 
neuro circuits that they have cultivated over repeated and conscious practice. 
To be successful in life and work, and to successfully Conceive, Design,
Implement and Operate value-adding products, systems, and experiences, 
the ability to develop positive mental models is paramount. Developing these
positive mental models requires committing the time and effort to practice 
and learn necessitating many sacrifices on the way. Decades of research in 
human motivation indicate that the main source of it is our search for 
meaning. We are positive, motivated and on the top of our game when we 
work on something that is meaningful to us. To achieve this, it is important 
to continue training and rewiring our brains to develop the muscles of 
positive thinking that are necessary to view challenges as opportunities so 
that we can, through them, create a better world. 
There is enough evidence that we can exert control over what habits and 
mental models we form through repetition, reflection and intentional 
thinking as well as the use of experienced coaches and mentors. These 
intentional mental activities cause myelin growth and strengthen the neuron 
connections, literally hardwiring the mental models we are inculcating. 
Through this we are able to nurture positive mental models that will support 
growth, development and learning. The collections of mental models that we 
maintain will, literally, create our world and form our mindset. 
The Neuron. (Source: Wiki Commons) 
Nurturing a positive growth-inclined mindset is very necessary for
success both professionally and in life at large. Individuals who continuously 
develop their mindset are lifelong learners who will be able to fulfil their full 
potential and play a key role in helping others achieve their full potential as 
well. In order to be effective individuals who can develop people, products 
and systems that make life worth living and support the increasing
population of our planet, it is important that we develop a positive attitude 
and see the world as full of opportunities and cultivate mental habits to 
construct mental models that enable us to spot those opportunities and create 
value out of them. Here we need to reiterate that our perception of reality is
extremely important. Strictly speaking, there is no absolute reality, and that 
is why two individuals facing the same situation may end up seeing adversity 
or opportunity depending on their mental model.  
Studying the biographies of successful individuals, who managed to
have a lasting impact on those around them, seems to suggest a formula or a 
process for success. This formula seems to suggest that success happens when 
we work on something that we are interested in and willing to commit our 
time and effort towards. Interest and commitment, when coupled with the 
right practicing technique, coaching and feedback for improvement, will 
result in achieving mastery and success. These elements are discussed below. 
Interest 
The journey to success starts with interest, successful people often pursue
goals that they are interested in and are in alignment with their life purpose. 
Simon Sinek calls this "starting with why". In his book carrying the same title, 
he cites many examples of organisations and individuals from Martin Luther 
King to Apple Inc. where successful and inspirational leaders are very clear
of the "why", the reason for their existence, and use that to communicate and 
inspire. It is important for individuals and organisations that seek success, 
happiness and fulfilment to articulate their interests and life purposes as this 
is the key to sustaining them throughout the ups and downs of the life 
journey. Writing down a "Vision" statement, for both individuals and
organisations, is a worthwhile effort in this direction. If done right, it can
bring a lot of clarity to answer the question "what is the purpose of our 
existence?" 
Commitment  
Pursuing what interests us is an essential starting point but it is not sufficient 
for success. We need to be committed to allocate the time and effort necessary
to build the success mindset. Willingness to push the limit and operate 
outside our comfort zone is a prerequisite for honing new skills and attitudes 
leading towards success. Interestingly, that willingness to explore uncharted 
territories is also the reason why we will inevitably fail before we achieve
mastery. This "failure" is a necessary feedback that we should use to know 
what to change and where to improve in order to fare better next time. The
way we respond to failure is a very good indication of the depth of our 
interest in what we are pursuing and it represents a reflection of our mindsets 
as well. An interested committed mindset will perceive failure as getting us a 
step closer to success through uncovering shortcomings and things to change. 
It is necessary here to mention that the definition of failure in this section, 
and most of the book, is the inability to achieve the desired results when we 
push the limit of what we are capable of or what the current paradigms allow.
This failure often yields very positive learning that can be used to further 
improve performance in the future.   
Practicing Technique, Coaching and Feedback
Techniques are mental frameworks that we use to improve our performance 
while pursuing our developmental goals. Often these techniques are used 
under the tutelage of a coach, teacher, mentor or a master of some sort. 
Techniques refer to the way sportswomen and sportsmen train when they 
prepare for the Olympics, for example. The presence of a coach is often very 
important. I taught myself swimming at the age of 27. I had the interest and I 
was truly committed. I went to the swimming pool every day and watched 
how other people swim. Eventually, I was able to swim, but my technique is 
not good at all. I attribute this to the fact that I did not get someone to show 
me how to do it right and provide me with timely feedback so that I can 
correct and alter my technique and build myelin around the right brain 
circuitry.  
The practice that leads to success takes place with full awareness on the 
part of the trainee while a selected limit is being pushed. For example when 
a runner is trying to break her own record, she may try a new rhythm of 
running or breathing, as she does this new breathing, her performance may 
take a dip, she needs to be aware of what is happening in her body and mind,
and continue practicing fine tuning and perfecting the skill. When a limit is 
pushed, any failure is a feedback or symptom that indicates that further fine 
tuning is necessary, so failure should be expected, accepted and even
welcomed as a sign that we are on the path to enhance and improve the skill. 
2.3 
How to Craft a Mindset  
It is clear now that formation of mental models is a process that happens over
time as myelin grows along the neuron pathways. We have a choice of 
allowing this process to take place unconsciously or to take charge of it and 
literally use myelin to craft our desired mindset. This section proposes three 
main techniques to growing a positive mindset, brain rewiring, language and
thinking, and the CDIO process as a mental model.
2.3.1 Brain Rewiring
We mentioned earlier that mental models to recognise danger exist much
earlier in the evolution of the brain as they can be a necessary prerequisite for
survival. However, mental models that recognise opportunities can be 
inculcated. One exercise that can be used to improve our capability to see the 
positive side of events is brain rewiring, this is where we purposefully record
5 things that we are grateful for on a daily basis. Students who took my
courses were required to perform brain rewiring daily and by the end of the 
semester, most of them reported increased capability to see opportunities in 
their lives. This is going to be discussed in more detail in the next chapter, 
Emotional Intelligence.
2.3.2 
Language and Thinking
It is interesting to note here that computer science has contributed a fair share
of our current understanding of how thinking takes place. In the course of 
attempting to build computers that imitate the human brain, engineers and
computer scientists needed to understand how the brain works in the first 
place. A number of theories have been developed. The thinking theory that I 
shall describe here is my favourite and it is congruent with the concept of 
influencing myelin growth. The theory elucidates the role of language in the 
formation of thoughts and it has implications on how we learn and
communicate. Thinking happens in three stages: 
1.
Naming
2.
Classifying 
3.
Wiring (Neuron Myelination)  
In order for the brain to store and process ideas, thoughts and concepts,
the brain starts by assigning these concepts names first. We do that all the
time, when we meet new people, even if we do not know their names, in our 
mind we assign them some sort of a name. If the person is tall, we may name
him the tall man, if she is not from this country, we may name her the foreign
lady and so on. This facilitates the storage part of the thinking. Now, if we are 
to have an interest in the person, object or the concept, our brain shall attach 
some classification to it. This classification could be anything like good, bad,
hot, bitter, difficult, etc. This will result in electrochemical activity in the 
neurons (firing) which will result in creating a connection in the brain. The
interesting thing about this theory is that it provides some control over the 
entire process of thinking through altering the naming and classifying stages. 
Let me illustrate this with an example that I use when I train executives. When 
I show a picture of a cockroach and ask the audience to name it, all of them
will say it is a cockroach. So this is the naming stage. When I ask them what 
they think of it, most of them say things like dirty, disgusting, ugly, etc. This 
is the classifying stage. Now when they are asked of what should be done
with the cockroach majority will recommend destroying it because they are 
'wired' to do so. 
A Cockroach. (Source: www.kaneexterminating.com) 
After explaining the thinking theory, I show the picture of the cockroach 
again and ask the audience to name it without using any negative terms. This
implies not using the term cockroach as it has negative connotations already. 
One suggestion is to use its scientific name 'Blattaria.' This is a fresh name 
with no classification attached. Now the audience is asked to describe the 
Blattaria using positive or neutral terms. Suggestions like 6-legged, brown,
flyer, resourceful, flexible, protein, roommate and so on start to emerge.
When I ask what we should do with it, almost everyone in the audience 
change their mind and they are not recommending destruction anymore. 
Clearly, using different naming and classifying terms creates new brain 
patterns that are wired through training and repetition, and this how is 
learning takes place. 
This can have an immediate positive impact on our capacity to develop 
new positive mental habits that can help us Conceive solutions to the 
challenges we face. I have institutionalised this at the School of Engineering
of Taylor's University where I am currently the dean. I have outlawed the Pword (problem) and replaced it wherever it appears in the curriculum with
either "opportunity" or "challenge." To encourage my students to stop using
the P-word, I created what I call the "opportunity note." Modelled after a 
dollar, I give each one of my students an opportunity note at the beginning 
of my courses, if they keep their promise of not using the P-word throughout 
the semester, I personally sign the opportunity note for them. I have also
mailed opportunity notes around the world to my online students. Clearly, I 
do not have a way to watch my students 24/7 but creating a physical object 
(the Opportunity Note) makes the word come to life. As more students report 
great and enjoyable experiences, the culture takes roots. The opportunity note 
is shown below and I would like to recommend that you start removing the
P-word from your vocabulary and influence your thinking process at the 
naming stage. 
The Opportunity Note
Lao Tzu once said, "Watch your thoughts they become words. Watch
your words, they become actions. Watch your actions, they become habits. 
Watch your habits, they become character. Watch your character, it becomes 
your destiny." 
It is worth noting that in some languages, like Arabic, there are two 
different words to represent the English word "problem", "Mushkilah" is the
Arabic word for problem as a source of trouble or worry; and "Masaalah" is 
the translation of problem as a question raised for intellectual enquiry. 
Replacing the word problem with either "challenge" or "opportunity" is
aimed at creating mental habits of seeing all "problems" as solutions in 
disguise that require unearthing and discovering. 
Knocking a man out with one punch, also referred to as a "king hit", was
recently causing an increasing number of casualties in Australia. In July 2012, 
a "king hit" caused the death of Thomas Kelly. Another victim, Daniel 
Christie, was in a critical condition after receiving a "king hit" on New Year's 
Eve of 2014. This has sparked a debate about the use of the term "king hit" 
which seems to glorify violence. Some activists together with the family of 
Daniel Christie are suggesting to change the term from a "king hit" to a 
"coward's punch." This renaming is meant to deprive this act of violence 
from the glory which its current name lends. Mike Gallacher, the NSW State 
Police Minister agreed with this proposal and encouraged the community
and media to use the term "coward's punch" instead to help embarrass and 
shame offenders. 
We live in a world that is made of our words. People can make our days 
by saying a nice word to us and similarly, hearing a harsh word can spoil our 
moods for a long time. The thinking model of naming-classifying-wiring is 
an invitation to cultivate a language that facilitates the realisation of
opportunities as well as success, happiness, and potential fulfilment for
everyone involved. 
2.3.3 
CDIO Process as a Mental Model 
The process through which we go about doing our daily business has an 
impact on our mental models and how we think. While delivering corporate 
training to bankers and business leaders, I get to realise that the world of 
business can adopt some of the methods engineers use routinely. In order to 
leverage the power of the brain and overcome its shortcomings, engineers 
adopt the CDIO process which is a systematic and structured way to
Conceive, Design, Implement and Operate products, services, and systems.
Although structured, the CDIO process is not aimed at limiting the creativity 
of engineers, on the contrary, it results in unleashing the engineers' creativity 
through assisting them in avoiding the loopholes and biases of the brain that 
can affect the quality of solutions they produce. The CDIO process is aimed 
at creating systematic thinking habits in the mind. Four chapters of this book 
are dedicated to discuss each stage of the CDIO process in detail. 
2.4 
Thinking and Reasoning 
The Noble laureate Daniel Kahneman, in his masterpiece 'Thinking Fast and 
Slow', identified two systems of thinking, the fast one which is quick and 
intuitive and the slow one which meticulous and detailed. As mentioned 
earlier, the brain is a power-hungry organ which means that thinking is an 
"expensive" activity, so the quicker it can be done the better. Fast thinking is 
also necessary in threatening and dangerous situations where a split second 
decision, such as to run away from a snake or jump out of the way of a 
speeding car, is needed. 
Now let us demonstrate the two systems of thinking. If you are asked a 
question like what is 2+2, you will quickly answer 4; this is the fast thinking
system in action. Now if I ask you to mentally calculate the product of 17x34, 
you will be engaging the slow system of thinking, you will activate more 
areas of your brain, where you will calculate and store interim results, and
use much more energy than the energy used to answer what is 2+2. Using the 
fast thinking system in intuitive situations to save time, effort and energy, or 
in life threatening situations to save lives, is all well and good. The real issue
is when we fall into the trap of using the fast thinking system to tackle a 
challenge that requires engaging the slow thinking system. Take for example
the following question adopted from the Cognitive Reflection Test prepared
by Prof Shane Frederick. "A bat and a ball cost $1.10 in total. The bat costs a
dollar more than the ball. How much does the ball cost?" If you have 
answered 10 cents, welcome to the club, you have joined the majority of 3000 
university students who gave this wrong answer. If you take a moment to 
check your answer you will realise that the correct answer is 5 cents. What 
has happened is that your brain took the easy way and used the fast, 
inexpensive thinking system to resolve a challenge that required the use of 
the slow deliberate system. This example is not rare, and both professionals 
and ordinary people make countless mistakes every day just by trusting their 
gut feeling. The Cognitive Reflection Test is shown on the next page. 
The Cognitive Reflection Test (CRT) 
(Cognitive reflection and decision making by Shane Fredrick) 
http://mitsloan.mit.edu/alumni/pdf/Winter08-InnovationAtWork.pdf 
1.
A bat and a ball cost $1.10 in total. The bat costs a dollar more 
than the ball. How much does the ball cost? 
2.
If it takes 5 machines 5 minutes to make 5 widgets, how long 
would it take 100 machines to make 100 widgets?
3.
In a lake, there is a patch of lily pads. Every day, the patch 
doubles in size. If it takes 48 days for the patch to cover the
entire lake, how long would it take for the patch to cover half 
of the lake?
2.5 Critical Thinking 
It is clear by now that thinking is a complex process that happens both
consciously and subconsciously, both fast and slow. As we have seen earlier, 
in its search for meaning, patterns and order, the brain can make mistakes. 
Left to its own mechanisms, human thinking can be exposed to biases,
prejudgment, discrimination and prejudice. Critical thinking refers to the
deep, intentional and structured thinking process that is aimed at analysing 
and conceptualising information, experiences, observations, and existing
knowledge for the purpose of creating original and creative solutions for the 
challenges encountered. Thinking critically requires a positive open and fair
mindset that is able to objectively examine the available information and is
aware of the laid assumptions and the limitations brought about by them.
Another feature of critical thinking is that it is systemic and holistic in the 
sense that while examining a proposed solution, it examines its impact and
consequences on other parts of the system thus ensuring that a solution at one 
level of the system does not create challenges and difficulties somewhere else. 
In this era of Grand Challenges, critical and system thinking as well as 
thinking holistically are prerequisites to addressing these challenges. Imagine
the challenge of climate change, for example, before introducing any 
treatment in the system or proposing any solutions, we need to be able to 
comprehend the complexity and connectedness of different parts of the 
system and how an alteration in a part of the system may have an unexpected 
impact on another part of the system. To enable holistic thinking, it is usual 
to map out system network architecture and then study the impact of changes 
made at different parts of the system on the overall system. Another example
of a complex system is the human body. The system network architecture of
the human body contains numerous subsystems such as the nervous system, 
the circulation system, the digestive system, the skeletal system, etc. Now if 
we need to prescribe a certain medication to treat a headache, it is necessary 
to see the impact of this medication on other systems; and if any other system
reacts adversely to the drug. Other examples of complex systems include the 
rainforest, the Internet, and the global financial system. Businesses and 
companies can also be represented through system networks with suppliers, 
customers, regulators and other direct and indirect stakeholders. 
The Great Leap Forward!
In order to rapidly transform the Chinese society from an agrarian to a 
modern one, the Chinese government made a series of planning decision
between 1958 and 1961, these came to be known as the Great Leap Forward. 
One of the planning decisions was the hygiene campaign against the "Four 
Pests" initiated in 1958. Chairman Mao conceived the idea of getting rid of 
mosquitos, flies, rats and sparrows. The sparrows made it to the list because
they were responsible of eating grain seeds depriving the people from them. 
The design of the campaign against sparrows included destroying their nests 
and nestlings but most importantly it was based on preventing the sparrows 
from landing, forcing them to fly until died of exhaustion. This was 
implemented and operated by millions of people banging pots and pans to 
scare the birds. The operation was so successful that it drove sparrows and
other birds to the edge of extinction in China. However, the Chinese
government finally realised that the birds played another ecological role by
eating a large amount of grain-eating insects, keeping their numbers under
control. The net effect of the campaign reduced the yield of crops, forcing the 
Chinese government to abandon the campaign and import sparrows from 
overseas to re-establish the natural balance. The famine still resulted in the 
death of 30 million people. This is an example of failure to think holistically 
and in terms of systems, where introducing a change somewhere in a complex
system often will have other effects in other parts of the system. 
2.6 
Knowledge and Memory 
Research has shown that we learn better if we develop accurate mental 
models of how our brains work. We have devoted this chapter to describing 
thinking in its different forms, and the importance of having a positive 
growth mindset to achieve happiness, success, and overall well-being. 
For the sake of completeness, it is useful for us to explore how memory
works. There are two types of popular mental models for memory, the short
term memory, and long term memory. Short-term memory, or working 
memory, is where we temporarily store data. Long-term memory is where
we eventually store events that happened to us and the learning that we have
achieved.  
One useful way to visualise memory is to think of a computer. The 
computer has a large long term memory, the hard disk; and a much smaller 
working memory, the RAM (Random Access Memory). When we save a
document, it is stored within the hard disk (long term memory). If we choose
to edit it, the document is recalled into the RAM and a word processor can
make the changes required. Once done, the document can be committed back 
to the hard disk (long term memory). Now if there is a power outage while
you are processing the document, you will lose all the unsaved changes but 
you can rest assured that the original version is still available in the hard disk. 
You may ask why don't we do the edits in the hard disk itself, the answer is 
simple, while the hard disk is very stable, the RAM works way faster allowing 
very quick changes. 
If you are asked to remember these words in sequence: smart, orange, 
metal, lunch, dust, school, book, you will probably be able to hold them in 
memory. As a matter of fact research has shown that our short-term memory 
can hold up to 7 items at a given time. That is why the phone numbers have
seven digits in them, but if you are distracted, for example by trying to answer 
what is 14x27, the short-term memory will fall apart. Long-term memory can
hold much more than that, there is practically no upper limit to how much 
long-term memory can accommodate. However committing knowledge to 
long-term memory requires effort and intentional mental work, and is often 
associated with creating mental models that make sense of the information to
be retained. 
Our brains find it very difficult to work with random, meaningless or
unrelated information that does not fit together into a framework that makes 
sense. That is why we like congruent stories, and why, when we want to get 
children to remember the alphabet, we do it as a song, A B C D E F G.... The 
song helps transform a random string of data into a rhythmic meaningful 
song. The phone number of my childhood home was 7610042 (do not try to
call this number now, someone else may answer you!), in order for me to help
my friends keep it in their short-term memory and help them store it in the 
my friends keep it in their short-term memory and help them store it in the 

42. "76" represents the length of Halley's Comet cycle, "100" the maximum 
grade can be achieved in an exam, and "42" is the product of the first two 
digits, 7 and 6. This sequence helped create two things, firstly it reduced the 
number of items to deal with from 7 digits to three chunks making it easier to 
handle by the short-term memory; secondly, it created a story, or a mental 
model that makes it easier for the phone number to be stored in the long-term
memory. Chunking and creating patterns out of seemingly unrelated or 
random strings of data are some of the techniques that people with super 
memories use to memorise large amounts of data. 
Joshua Foer is a journalist who grew interest in the memory 
championships that are organised around the world where participants 
exhibit herculean memory feats by memorising card decks and long 
unrelated string of numbers. To understand things better, Joshua decided to 
compete in one of these competitions and spent a year preparing for that. He
narrates the story of his participation and winning of the memory 
championship in his book 'Moonwalking with Einstein: The Art and Science 
of Remembering Everything'. In the book, he describes many interesting 
memory techniques including a technique called the Memory Palace. This 
technique makes use of an existing familiar memory framework and
superimposes an unrelated list on it utilising a story. The familiar framework 
is normally a home or a place that the individual knows very well. To 
remember things you will need to mentally "place" these things at certain
corners of the memory palace. Let me demonstrate this with an example. 
Let us say that you want to memorise the following shopping list: 
Milk 
Soap
Cereal 
6 Cans of 7-Up
Screwdriver 
Cat Food 
Fish
Close your eyes and in your mind go to your childhood home or any
other home that you are very familiar with. Imagine yourself outside your
home and imagine that there is a swimming pool that is filled with Milk. 
Clearly visualise this image in your mind. The image may sound strange, but
that is even better. Now picture your favourite movie star bathing in the milk 
swimming pool using a bar of Soap. I shall leave it to your creativity to
visualise this. While the movie star is bathing in the milk pool with the soap, 
imagine a truck full of Cereal dumping its load into the swimming pool.
Leave this behind and enter into your home. As you open the door, 6 Cans of
7-Up stacked behind it will fall around forming the figure "6". Look at this
with amazement! Walk into your kitchen and put your hand into your pocket 
and get a Screwdriver and use this screwdriver to force open a can of Cat 
Food. As the cat food spills all over the place, a Fish will jump out of the
fridge, comes to life and eat the cat food. If you follow the instruction you will 
realise that it is difficult to forget the shopping list this way. I have tried this 
exercise with my students and they were able to remember long strings of
unrelated items. We did the exercise at the beginning of the lecture and I 
checked them again at the end of the lecture and they recalled the list very 
well. Obviously, when items are stringed into a story that is told in a familiar
setup (the memory palace) long-term memory can be invoked relatively
easily. This technique is very powerful with people reported to be able to
memorise an entire dictionary using it. 
Chapter 3 
Emotional Intelligence 
"If your emotional abilities aren't in hand, if you don't have selfawareness, if you are not able to manage your distressing emotions, if
you can't have empathy and have effective relationships, then no matter 
how smart you are, you are not going to get very far." 
Daniel Goleman
"We cannot tell what may happen to us in the strange medley of life.
But we can decide what happens in us, how we can take it, what we do
with it, and that is what really counts in the end." 
Joseph Fort Newton 
Holistic education and human development are integrated processes that
aim not only at developing skills necessary for employment, but also at 
ensuring the emotional well-being of individuals. This often is referred to as 
training the heads, hearts, and hands. The good news is that the only part of
the body that we need to train is the brain! Knowledge, emotions and even 
manual skills are all cultivated, developed and stored in the brain. The
integrated holistic development of knowledge, skills, and emotional 
competencies will result in individuals who are not only ready for 
employment but also ready for life's challenges through being resilient, 
purpose-driven individuals who can fulfil their full human potential and 
help others achieve the same. Purpose-driven individuals have a positive 
growth mindset that gives them a belief that they can have a positive impact 
on life. This motivation is a necessary prerequisite for performing 
meaningful and successful CDIO processes. 
This chapter draws on the writings of Daniel Goleman, especially
'Emotional Intelligence' and 'Working with Emotional Intelligence'. It is, 
however, not intended as a replacement for reading Goleman's excellent
books, in fact, I highly recommend them. I taught a course called "Success: 
Achieving Success with Emotional Intelligence" to the engineering students 
at Taylor's University (Malaysia) in 2013. The course was also offered as a 
free Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) which more than a thousand 
students from all over the world took online. Participants from all over the
world found the tools I introduced useful and to complement the theoretical 
framework described by Daniel Goleman. 
I measured the emotional intelligence of the students who attended my 
course and compared it to that of a control group that did not attend my
course. The measurement happened twice, at the beginning of the semester 
and at the end of it, where students need to complete a detailed 
questionnaire. The results were very encouraging with the students who 
completed the 18-week course achieving growth in all aspects of the 
emotional intelligence compared to the control group. In this chapter I will
attempt to introduce emotional intelligence from a practical point of view
and provide simple exercises that can help grow different aspects of 
emotional intelligence.
3.1 
What is Intelligence? 
Intelligence is a widely used word but we seldom stop and ask ourselves 
what it means. It has been defined in a variety of ways that are related to 
cognitive capacities in humans. Intelligence has been observed in other
living creatures as well. Artificial intelligence is the capacity that is
programmed into machines (computers) enabling them to respond to new 
situations and learn. Intelligence can refer to the mental ability to think, 
learn, recognise patterns, logically predict outcomes, and respond to a 
variety of stimuli. Steven Pinker, the author of 'How the Mind Works,' 
defines intelligence as the ability to attain goals in the face of obstacles by 
means of decisions based on rational (truth-obeying) rules. Intelligence
Quotient (IQ) is the measure of the ability to comprehend logical, 
geometrical, and mathematical challenges. While IQ is a useful indication of 
future success, the challenges of the 21st century increasingly need other
kinds of intelligence that IQ does not measure. 
As explained in the previous chapter, the brain has three main regions,
the old brain, which is dedicated to survival instincts; the middle brain, 
where emotions are processed; and the new brain, where rational high level 
thinking happens. We perceive the world around us through the variety of
sensory signals that are relayed to our brains. Signals flow in and out of the 
brain through its lower part, the old and middle brain; which means that 
any signal that goes through the brain will be emotionally "flavoured" 
before reaching the new brain for rational processing. This is the reason we
sometimes emotionally overreact to events and stimuli. Being aware of this 
emotional overdrive and being able to manage the impact of emotions on
ourselves as well as others around us is called Emotional Intelligence.
Surviving and thriving in the 21st century, which is a key century that 
is riddled with grand challenges for the humanity as a whole, requires 
holistic development of individuals in both the cognitive and emotional 
domains. This is a prerequisite for nations' competitiveness, prosperity and
security. Despite the wide realisation that national education systems ought 
to be geared towards the provision of holistic education, there is a gap 
between this realisation and what happens in reality at schools and
universities around the world. In his book, the 'Global Achievement Gap', 
Tony Wagner identified 7 survival skills for the 21st century that are not 
systematically developed in schools today. These skills are: 
1.
Critical thinking 
2.
Collaboration across networks
3.
Agility and adaptability
4.
Initiative and entrepreneurialism 
5.
Effective oral and written communication 
6.
Accessing and analysing information
7.
Curiosity and imagination
It is clear that in order to maintain nations' competitiveness and achieve 
holistic development of individuals and societies, it is paramount to adopt 
an integrated approach to inculcating both IQ and Emotional Intelligence,
leading towards the development of human capital equipped with all the
necessary survival skills.
3.2 Emotional Intelligence 
Deep inside our hearts (or should I say brains!), we are all ultimately chasing 
happiness. We may be seeking success in the form of money or power, we
may be seeking status or fulfilment, but if we dig deeper, often happiness is 
what we find as our fundamental motive. Now happiness is not easily
define either, as it means different things to different people. The definition 
I like is that happiness is the quality of one's relationships. If you think about
it, after achieving the basics in life, such as having health, food, shelter, what 
really matters is how good are our relationships with our loved ones, 
students, teachers, co-workers, drivers on the road, and almost everyone 
else. Collaboration and teamwork, which are key success skills in today's 
work, school, and life in general, are also functions of the quality of 
relationships with others. Emotional intelligence is an essential ingredient 
for nurturing healthy and productive relationships.  It is the skill and ability 
to understand, recognise, predict and appropriately respond to emotions in
one's self and in others, as well as in groups and teams. Daniel Goleman 
presented a neat and useful framework to describe the four aspects of 
emotional intelligence, namely self-awareness, self-management, social 
awareness and relationship management. The framework, together with a 
description of its main aspects, is discussed below.
Emotional Intelligence Framework. (Source: Daniel Goleman) 
3.2.1 Self-Awareness
The cornerstone of emotional intelligence is self-awareness. Emotionally 
intelligent individuals are aware of their internal state, capabilities and 
limitations and they are able to use language to describe how they feel in 
clear and precise words. These individuals can manage themselves better
and can develop better relationships. According to Daniel Goleman, selfawareness encompasses emotional awareness, accurate self-assessment and
self-confidence.
3.2.1.1 Emotional Awareness
Emotions are often what sets us in motion, and the basis of emotional 
intelligence is to be aware of our own emotions and to be able to accurately 
describe and express them. This is easier said than done though! One of the 
reasons for this is that the middle brain where emotions are processed is 
incapable of processing language. Try to ask people how they feel. I will bet 
you the answer will be words like "fine", "ok" or something along these
lines. Being aware of our emotional state is the first step in cultivating 
emotional intelligence, and developing the language to describe our
emotional state is a prerequisite for achieving the emotional awareness. 
To help the students who registered for my online emotional 
intelligence course develop the language to describe their emotions, I 
requested that they report their emotional and relational states daily using 
specific adjectives in 6 different domains, namely Mental, Emotional,
Relational, Spiritual, Vocational, and Physical, domains. I learned this 
framework from Jim Warner who coaches top executives and CEOs around 
the world and he starts his forum sessions with a "check in" where everyone 
reports her/his M.E.R.S.V.P. state. This is described in more detail in the
table on the next page. 
The process of reporting one's emotions daily was difficult initially, 
where the students found it almost agonising as they forced themselves to 
describe their emotions. As time went by, the process got easier and more 
enjoyable. Throughout the process, I assured the students that "all emotions
are OK." The purpose of the exercise was to create awareness of our feelings, 
and not to deny them or suppress them. 
Sample adjectives that can be used to describe how we feel. 
Domain
Definition 
Sample adjectives
Mental 
Mind, intellect 
Emotional 
Affective state 
of consciousness 
Relational 
Quality/state of 
relationships 
Spiritual 
Bigger 
cause/meaning 
Vocational 
Job, career or 
study
Physical 
Body and health 
thinking, sharp, focused, curious, open, 
blocked, challenged, questioning, 
confused, learning, growing, wondering 
happy, sad, fearful, disgusted, guilty,
confused, aware, excited, satisfied, loved 
connected, grounded, networked, 
blessed, separated, reaching out, 
supported, lost, misunderstood, betrayed
blessed, grounded, assured, doubtful, 
searching, enlightened, driven, betrayed, 
disappointed, fulfilled
progressing, stuck, challenged, stretched, 
supported, driven, focused, confused, 
realistic
healthy, strong, in pain, flourishing, 
recovering, refreshed, healing, renewing 
3.2.1.2 Accurate Self-Assessment
In order for us to progress in life, it is essential to be able to know our
strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats. This is often called SWOT 
analysis and performing it can have a profound impact on our accurate selfassessment and self-awareness. Strengths are positive internal qualities and
capabilities an individual (or an organisation) has. These can be physical 
traits, skills or qualities of character that can help in achieving goals.
Weaknesses, on the other hand, are internal shortcomings that need to be
addressed further in order to ensure the achievement of objectives. 
Opportunities and threats represent external events and circumstances that 
can potentially be useful or harmful, respectively.  
As we perform the SWOT analysis, we can have a more accurate selfassessment, allowing us to capitalise on our strengths, use our weakness as 
opportunities for growth and be ready to grab opportunities, and face
challenges.   
SWOT Analysis 
3.2.1.3 Self-Confidence 
Armed with sharp awareness of one's current state along the 6 M.E.R.S.V.P 
domains and accurate self-assessment, a clear picture of an individual's 
potential as well as limitations emerges. This results in confidence of one's 
(and even organisation's) abilities to tackle challenges as they come along. 
3.2.2 Self-Management
Managing self is a very important component of emotional intelligence.
Individuals who are self-aware learn that all emotions are ok. It is ok to be
angry, sad or happy. However, not all actions are ok. It is not acceptable, for 
example, to insult others or physically harm them while we are angry or 
disappointed.  
We will always be exposed to external events and stimuli as we go
through the ups and downs of life. Angry motorists will shout at us, coworkers will misunderstand us and people will cut the queue ahead of us. 
We need to accept that we will never be able to control external events that 
happen to us. What we have control over, however, is how to respond to
these events and this is called self-management. An angry motorist can push 
our buttons, and this would surely make us angry and frustrated, but we
still can choose the way to respond to this stressful situation. We can smile 
and apologise to diffuse the situation or shout back and escalate the
situation to a fight. According to Daniel Goleman, self-management entails 
emotional self-control, transparency, adaptability, achievement orientation, 
initiative and optimism. 
To survive in the environment in which our ancestors lived, our brains 
evolved to quickly respond to negative stimuli and threats. If a caveman is 
walking in the jungle, it makes sense for him to run if he feels danger
approaching rather than stopping and analysing the consequences. This fast 
action that served us well in the past has become a liability that we need to 
mitigate in today's world. There is a need to train our brains to be able to 
identify and quickly respond to opportunities, not only threats. This fits
clearly in the realm of self-management. Below are the techniques and
activities that I introduced during my Massive Open Online Course to help
cultivate different aspects of Self-Management components. Students found
these techniques and activities to be beneficial and even life changing. 
3.2.2.1 Brain Rewiring
As we repeatedly mentioned, the human brain seems to be hard wired to 
respond to negative stimuli. This trait was very important to ensure survival 
in the dangerous environment that our ancestors used to inhabit. However, 
this inherited asset may become a liability when it comes to situations where 
positive thinking and the ability to respond to opportunities are paramount. 
This is especially true when the task involves Conceiving, Designing, 
Implementing and Operating value-added innovative systems, products 
and processes. The good news is that the brain can be "rewired" to respond 
to positive stimuli.  
One technique proposed by Ben Shahar to achieve this is to keep a
gratitude journal reporting things that an individual is grateful for daily. I 
have institutionalised this exercise in my Emotional Intelligence course 
where all my students were required to report 5 things that they were 
grateful for on a daily basis for the period of 18 weeks. Just like reporting
the inner state daily, the Brain Rewiring exercise started awkwardly and
difficult, as it required different brain muscles to be trained. With time, the 
exercise became more fluent, easy and enjoyable. At the end of the course, 
students reported a more positive perspective towards life and appreciated 
themselves and those around them more. This positive mental attitude is 
extremely powerful when addressing challenges and it can cultivate the 
creation of innovative alternatives in both professional and personal life as
well as fostering emotional self-control and optimism. Repeating this daily
exercise for the period of the course was aimed at creating positive thinking 
attributes and literally building myelin along the mental circuits that enable
us to see the goodness in situations and people.  
Towards the end of the course, Susan, one of my online students, 
reported the following as one of the things that she was grateful for on 
January 11, 2014 "a really difficult conversation which brain rewiring 
enabled me to turn into a relationship building opportunity rather than a 
confrontation! Yeah!" 
As mentioned earlier, brain activities governing behaviour, habits, 
learning and thought expressions occur as electric signals generated and
transmitted along neurons in the brain. Neurons in the brain are widely 
connected and that makes the electric signals leak as they move along this 
complex network of wires. Performing tasks repeatedly and intentionally, 
such as brain rewiring, will get the brain cells firing signals in a certain 
repetitive fashion. Continuous firing stimulates the formation of the 
electrical insulating myelin sheath that encloses the path of the electrical 
signal. The more the neurons fire along the same path, the thicker the myelin 
layer and the better the insulation. In time this will improve the strength and 
the speed of the electrical signals and this is how we get better at things after 
practicing them. 
3.2.2.2 
Personal Vision and Mission
Having written mission and vision statements are very important. These
days most organisations have these statements crafted and displayed on 
their walls. If done right, the vision and mission can provide a powerful tool 
to outline and communicate the purpose and core values of an organisation,
or an individual. A mission statement provides the description of the 
purpose or "why" the individual (or organisation) exists. Individuals can 
have more than one mission, for example, a professional and personal 
mission, these will describe the professional purpose and the family 
purpose of the person respectively. Missions can be outward or inward 
looking. Usually an inward looking mission focuses on personal benefits 
and it is difficult to inspire others to join and support; an example of an
inward mission "to be a millionaire by 2020". Outward looking missions 
usually have impacts beyond the individual and they can resonate with 
others who may support and help. An example of an outward looking 
professional mission for a teacher is "to help all my students realise and 
unleash their full potential". 
A vision is a statement of what an individual (or organisation) wants 
the world (or themselves) to be when the mission is achieved. For example 
when the individual with the mission to be a millionaire achieves his (her) 
mission, he (she) can have "total financial freedom" and this could be his 
(her) vision. For the teacher who wants to unleash the students' potential, a 
vision may be "a world with no illiteracy" or "a highly competitive nation."
3.2.2.3 
S.M.A.R.T Goals 
In order to for a person or an organisation to achieve their mission and 
vision, planning and goal setting is a key activity. While mission and vision
may take a lifetime to achieve, goals need to be set and achieved in a more
foreseeable timescale.  In order to ensure the achievement of goals that 
accumulate towards mission achievement, goals need to be Specific, 
Measurable, Attainable, Relevant, and Time-bound. Below is a quick review
of each aspect of the SMART goals: 
Specific Goals
A specific goal is clear and not ambiguous. It needs to indicate who is
involved in achieving it, what needs to be accomplished, where will it take
place, when will it happen and how will it be achieved. For examples, to
"Get in shape" is rather a general goal while "join a gym and work out 3 
times a week for a minimum of 1 hour at a time" is a specific goal.
Measurable Goals  
Here we need to specify the metrics for measuring the goal so that we can 
clearly know when the goal is achieved. For example, "increase sales" is not 
measurable while "increase sales by 10% compared to last year" is 
measurable.
Attainable Goals 
For goals to be attainable there should be no ethical or legal barrier against 
them. When setting goals, one also needs to acknowledge the environmental
and physical limitations. For goals to motivate, they need to represent a 
stretch on what is perceived as being possible while simultaneously 
ensuring that the skills, capabilities and attitudes that make the goals 
attainable are within the reach of those who are working on them. For 
example, if I do not know how to swim now, setting a goal of winning an
Olympic medal in 6 months is not realistic and may demotivate me as I go 
about my weekly training. However, the goal of qualifying for a local 
swimming competition within a year, is a very motivating goal; even though 
it stretches me, if I train long enough, I have a very good shot at achieving 
it. 
Relevant Goals
The goals we set ought to be relevant and congruent with the overall mission 
and objectives of the team or the organisation. A football coach, for example, 
may set the goal of "making 2 egg sandwiches by 9 am". The goal is specific, 
measurable, attainable and time-bound but it is hardly relevant if the overall 
objective is to increase the tactical skills of the team. Relevant goals are
worthwhile, they add real value and capitalise on the strengths and 
capabilities of the team members. 
Time-Bound Goals
The goal need to have a clear timeline indicating when they will be achieved. 
While setting SMART goals is a very important activity, it is essential 
here to remain flexible, agile and open to review the goals should an 
interesting unforeseen opportunity arises. If we work in the mining business 
and while digging for silver, we find gold, we should have the mental agility
to change our goals to capture the new "golden" opportunity. 
When I worked on my PhD research, my project focused on exploring
the relationship between fluid mechanics and the formation of gallstones in 
the gallbladder. The work involved building models of the cystic ducts of 
patients who underwent surgical removal of the gallbladder and studying 
the flow inside them. While observing the flow structures I noticed that 
there was some fluid mixing occurring within the cystic duct that connects
the gallbladder to the rest of the biliary system. While, strictly speaking, my
SMART goal was to explore the relationship between gallstones and the
mechanics of the flow, I opted to pursue the mixing opportunity as a viable 
industrial option. This ended up being a significant part of my doctorate 
work and even influenced the title of my thesis which I changed to be
"Cystic Duct to Static Mixer: A Serendipitous Journey." Let me iterate again, 
setting SMART goals is very important for successful planning. However, 
maintaining an open mind and preserving intellectual agility allows us to 
adjust the SMART goals to yield the best outcome should there be a change
that was not foreseen when the goal was set. 
3.2.3 Social Awareness
Just like self-awareness, social awareness refers to presence of the mind and 
other character traits that enable individuals to be aware of their
surroundings and how they are impacted by and impact other people's 
feelings and emotions. To nurture social awareness, Daniel Goleman
proposed the development of empathy, organisational awareness and 
service orientation. 
3.2.3.1 Empathy
Empathy is the ability to put ourselves in the position of others and feel how 
they feel. It does not necessarily mean to agree with others, just to feel what
they feel. This is extremely necessary for all social animals and it has its roots 
in the biology of the brain. Italian researchers discovered certain neurons in
the brain that are activated not only when we go through an experience but 
also when we see someone going through a similar experience. That is why, 
for example, if we see someone accidentally hitting her finger with a 
hammer, we almost feel the pain in our own fingers. These neurons are now
dubbed "mirror neurons." 
Empathy is a very powerful tool and those who cultivate it can be good 
team players. Empathy is very necessary for professional success as well. 
Engineers and designers, for example, need to develop empathy with the 
end users of their products so that they can develop human-centric designs.
Studies of the history of malpractice litigation against doctors revealed 
that empathetic doctors who exhibited care and listened well to their 
patients were at a much lower risk of being sued for malpractice by their 
patients when something goes wrong, compared to doctors whom were 
perceived as less empathetic. Empathy is also a key skill for those who work 
in sales, marketing and customer service.
One practical way to develop empathy in product design is to use the
product through a process that is called "body storming." Imagine a group
of male engineers who are designing a car that is being pitched to female 
customers. The body storming entails the male engineers put on high heels, 
carry handbags and try to get into the car and drive it. The knowledge 
acquired through body storming is very valuable and often ends up
profoundly influencing the design process. After I turned forty, I started to
have challenges in reading fine print. This includes the numbers and letters 
on my TV remote control as well as some name cards. Although I think that, 
at times, the fine print is made fine on purpose to fool consumers, but in the 
case of my TV remote control and name cards, the designers are either 
young or used enlarged models of their design on their computer screens.
In both cases, putting themselves in the shoes of different age groups of their 
end users would have significantly improved the design. 
When my colleagues who are new to teaching ask me how to know if 
the time allocated for their final exam paper is sufficient, my advice is to 
choose a quiet corner and answer the exam paper as if they are sitting for it 
themselves while timing themselves. The time allocated for the students 
should be 1.5 times the time the lecturer needs to complete the paper.  
To develop empathetic skills, students in my Emotional Intelligence 
course were grouped in pairs. Each one of the two students was asked to 
describe his (her) feelings while the partner listens empathetically and in a 
non-judgmental way. The partner then reciprocates and listens back. After
that exchange, each partner narrates the feelings of his (her) partner back to 
him (her). 
3.2.3.2 Organisational Awareness
Organisational awareness refers to the ability to sense the dynamics of a 
group of people or team. This includes at which stage the team is in its 
growth cycle as well as the centres of power such as who calls the shots and 
who may be playing a negative role in the team. This awareness allows the 
individual to gauge the level of emotions in a group as well how can this be
positively influenced. 
3.2.3.3 Service Orientation
Service leadership is being recognised as a sustainable leadership style. 
Leadership is influence and servant leaders can command the respect of 
others and have a positive influence over them, enabling their teams to 
achieve their goals. To develop service orientation, it is important to get 
involved in activities that go beyond the direct benefit of an individual and 
have positive impact on others. Through serving others, we can develop a 
sense of self-worth and usefulness while building our capacity to 
understand the plight of those around us. Gradually, Service Learning is 
being acknowledged as a viable development technique for building 
emotional intelligence traits in students.
John-Son Oei is an alumnus of Taylor's University. After graduating
with a degree in communication, he was searching for his life purpose and 
inner calling. "I chose to study communication because I thought it was a 
generic degree that will help me find what I should be doing later in life. 
However, after graduating I was even more confused." John-Son told my 
students while delivering a guest lecture as part of one of my MOOCs
(Massive Open Online Courses). While enjoying life and making money
modelling, John- Son felt the urge to do something more meaningful.
Travelling one day with his friends, he visited a village of one of the 
Malaysian indigenous people groups (called Orang Asli) and he was 
shocked to know that some of them did not have a proper home to stay in. 
He was particularly disturbed seeing a broken shack with a man living there. 
Something inside him made him feel that he should act! He posted a note
on Facebook inviting his friends to join him to build the man a house. He
was surprised by how many people were willing to help. They spent a 
weekend building the house and even gave it a paint job. Encouraged by 
what a group of untrained but enthusiastic people can do, John-Son went 
on and founded EPIC Homes, a social enterprise that builds homes for the 
Orang Asli. 
EPIC Homes has a very interesting business model. It converts the 
home building exercise into a team building challenge that companies and 
organisations can perform over a three-day period. The company will pay
for the materials needed to build the house and EPIC Homes will supervise 
the team from the company throughout the home building process. The
home is then presented to the identified Orang Asli family. This service 
learning exercise is a very interesting and innovative initiative that EPIC
Homes is pioneering. It takes place in partnership between the beneficiary
family and the team which is building the home. "Poverty is a state of mind,"
John-Son says. "In order to empower the family that will receive the home, 
EPIC engages the family members in the design of their future home. They 
can choose one of three available designs. They are also given a choice of 
what colour the paint will be," he added. To ensure that the beneficiary 
family does not see the house as free hand-out, the family members are also
required to participate in building their house and also to pay-it-forward
and help build two other homes with their neighbours. This had a very
interesting spill over, as members of the Orang Asli community participate
in building their home, they develop very useful skills that helped some of 
them gain employment. EPIC Homes has built 23 homes thus far, a small 
dent in the 12,000 homes needed by the Orang Asli community according to
John-Son. 
John-Son Oei, Founder & CEO of EPIC Homes
I had the honour to be part of the Taylor's University team that built a 
home for Juri and Masni and their three children. The project was sponsored 
by Taylor's University, the senior management team of the university, 
supervised by the EPIC Homes team, worked very hard to build a nice and
simple house in three days. Service orientation is an important and 
necessary trait to develop Social Awareness through feeling the needs of
others and being able to play a positive role in fulfilling these needs. 
Building a Home for Masni and Juri (Mushtak Al-Atabi)
3.2.4 Relationship Management
While self-awareness is the cornerstone of the emotional intelligence,
relationship management is its ultimate objective. As mentioned earlier, 
happiness is measured by the quality of relationships that we cultivate with 
those around us. The pillars of the character of an individual who is capable 
of nurturing and managing great relationships with others include
developing others, inspirational leadership, influence, being a change 
catalyst, conflict management and teamwork and collaboration. These traits 
are discussed below. 
3.2.4.1 Developing Others
A distinct sign of emotionally intelligent individuals and leaders is a 
genuine interest in developing others. An exercise we did to inculcate the 
skill of developing others in the students who took my Emotional 
Intelligence course was to pair students together, and get them to interview 
each other to document each other's mission, vision, SWOT analysis and a 
SMART goal to be achieved by the end of the semester. Each student was 
encouraged to conduct the interview with care and respect and carefully 
write down the mission, vision, SWOT and the SMART goal of his (her) 
partner. 
At the end of the exercise, each student would have to face his (her) 
partner and say their name followed by "your SMART goal is _________ and 
I know that you will achieve it." Students are also asked to send each other 
specific encouraging messages related to their SMART goals twice a week. 
This can be done verbally, using email, text messages or even with a card.
After completing the exercise, one of my students posted the following
on the course website: 
"Today I would like to share something that I should've shared a few 
weeks back. So during one of the lectures, we conducted an activity 
called mission partnership. I was actually paired up with my best friend. 
But eventually I was paired up with another person. A boy from 
Kazakhstan named '.......' At first I was dreading it and thought that I 
was going to fail the activity due to his lack of English communication 
skills and his 'blur'ness. But after starting the activity, my eyes were 
opened. I could see from his perspective, I was able to see what I could 
do. I was able to see the difficulties he was facing. And it broke my heart.
Judging before doing. And I would just like to thank Mr. Mushtak for 
that class and the activity and like to say sorry to '.......' This activity 
has opened my eyes. And I urge my fellow colleagues, don't judge and 
get into the person's shoes." 
3.2.4.2 Inspirational Leadership
Leadership is a human quality that is both important and difficult to define 
at the same time. I would like to define leadership as the ability and
willingness to exhibit initiative and take responsibility. Leadership also
entails having a vision for a better future and readiness to serve others. It is 
important to remember that leadership is seldom about the position. 
Anyone who has a vision for doing things better, to serve others and
improve their life and who takes initiative to bring along the positive change 
while taking responsibility for her (his) action can be described as a leader. 
I see this definition of leadership as liberating as it implies that anyone of us
can practice leadership without waiting to be officially appointed. 
For those who hold an official position of leadership, the expectations 
are clear. They need to serve, show the way and be ready to take 
responsibility and face the consequences of their actions and decisions. They 
need to be ready to take blame for failure and share credit for success. 
In 2013 our school went through a major accreditation exercise. To
successfully complete this exercise, academic staff need to participate in a 
very tedious documentation process. The time commitment to perform the
documentation is not trivial and academics around the world dread it and
view it as a necessary evil. We thought of a way to transform the staff
experience and achieve genuine buy-in and we came up with a process that 
we called "Shoot the Boss!" It involves providing the staff with workshops 
and training sessions over 6 months to prepare them for the accreditation 
exercise. This included a mock accreditation exercise performed by
experienced auditors. Staff were informed that the management have full 
confidence in them and while the success of the accreditation exercise
depends on them, the management is taking full responsibility for any 
failure. The process concluded at a paintball court nearby, where the entire 
staff force attended and each one was asked 3 questions to assess their level
of preparation and readiness. I informed the members of staff that if anyone
of them fails to correctly answer at least 2 out of the 3 questions, that person 
is required to shoot me with the paintball marker as this is a sign that I have 
failed to give them the proper preparation. As a dean, I wanted to show the
staff that I am taking full responsibility for the accreditation exercise. 
Generally that staff did very well, and one lecturer was emotional when she 
missed the correct answers of some questions as she thought she answered 
correctly and did not want to shoot me! 
After the "Shoot the Boss!" session we had a couple of paintball games 
and went for great lunch together. Two months later, we had the actual 
accreditation visit and I was really touched to receive the accreditation
report. Not only it was positive with all our programmes being accredited, 
but with the accreditation committee recognising "highly motivated staff 
and students" as one of the strengths of the school. Now whenever 
alignment is needed, people say we need to "Shoot the Boss!" What I learnt 
from this session is that when the leader is willing to serve, communicates 
the vision clearly and shows full accountability, people are more than 
willing to support and pull together and even the most tedious task can 
become enjoyable. 
Shoot the Boss! 
3.2.4.3 Influence and Change 
Emotionally intelligent individuals can positively influence those around 
them and be agents of constructive change in their environments. One such
individual is Jack Sim, the founder of WTO (World Toilet Organisation). At 
the age of 40 and after staring 16 successful businesses, Jack Sim had what 
he called a mid-life crisis where he started to question his own purpose.
Realising that millions of people around the world do not have access to 
proper toilets, Jack decided to do something about it. "I was an academic 
failure as I had no degree. I also had no status and no authority," Jack said. 
"Starting on shoe-string budget and the hope to change the world, I had no 
choice but to attempt to enact change through influencing others to act," he 
added. Jack calls his framework of change and influence O.P. (Other People).
The idea is very simple, if you are clever enough and have a worthy cause, 
you can leverage unlimited resources to your cause; these include Other 
People's money, talent, authority, time, power and brand. 
Realising that there were a number of Toilet Organisations around the 
world, Jack founded the World Toilet Organisation in Singapore in 2001. He 
managed to convince various organisations that it is a good idea to have 
their HQ in Singapore. From the start, Jack used humour to break the taboo
associated with toilets. This started with him playing on the WTO acronym, 
which belongs to the World Trade Organisation and did not end with him
getting photographed wrapped with toilet paper and carrying a plunger. 
Leveraging media, business leaders, politicians and even Hollywood and 
Bollywood superstars to the cause, Jack was able to help many communities
around the world, especially in India and Africa. In 2010, the World Toilet
Organisation established the SaniShop which managed to sell 5,000 toilets 
thus far. The business model of the SaniShop is based on enabling
communities to build their own toilets and improve sanitation and health in 
the process. The United Nations recognised Jack Sim's effort and currently
19 November is celebrated as the World Toilet Day. 
Jack continues to influence people (Other People, as he called them) to 
act. His latest O.P. leverage is the production of a full-length feature comedy 
film "Everybody's Business." The story of this Lee Thean Jeen movie
revolves around 50 Singaporeans getting food poisoning because of toilet
hygiene issues. The fictional Minister of Toilets, together with hygiene
officers of the Ministry of Toilets, goes around trying to reach the bottom of 
the matter. Once again, Jack manages to use humour to break the taboo and 
delivers the message. 
When Jack spoke to my students his advice was very simple, if you 
know what your purpose is and believe in making a difference, then think 
of the abundance in the world around you. If you align Other People to your
goals, the cause will always be the winner. 
Jack Sim. Founder of World Toilet Organisation. 
3.2.4.2 Managing Conflicts
As more and more human activities involve working with people from
different backgrounds, cultures and nationalities, conflict may be inevitable
and it can range from argument, disagreement, and emotional tension to
fighting or war. The conflict often starts with a misunderstanding or 
disagreement, if parties agree to disagree, there will be no conflict. In the
book 'Hostage at the Table' by George Kohlieser, the following sources for
conflict are identified: 
1.
Differences in Goals 
2.
Differences in Interests 
3.
Differences in Values 
4.
Differences in Communication styles 
5.
Differences in Power and Status 
6.
Insecurity 
7.
Resistance to Change
8.
Role Confusion 
9.
Search for Ego Identity 
10. Personal Needs 
11. Poor Communication
To effectively manage conflicts, a bond between the conflicting parties 
needs to be maintained at all times. Couples with different religion, racial or
political orientations can keep the bond and manage any conflicts that they
may have. The misunderstanding that causes disagreement and conflict can
stem from misunderstanding of one's self and misunderstanding of others. 
If we do not know what we want or what others want, or if we do not know 
how we feel or how others feel, misunderstanding can happen and it can
lead to conflict. By now you can imagine that self-awareness is the antidote 
to misunderstanding of self, and social awareness is the antidote for 
misunderstanding others. 
Practically, you can use the approach below to resolve conflict as
described in 'Resolving Conflict Creatively' by Linda Lantieri: 
1.
Calm down, tune into your feelings, and express them.  
2.
Show a willingness to work things out by talking over the issue rather 
than escalating it with more aggression. 
3.
Try to find equitable ways to resolve the dispute, working together to
find a resolution that both sides can embrace
Success Stories
Students who took my Emotional Intelligence course have numerous
winnings to report. Below are some of them. 
Michael found speaking in public to be a challenge, possibly because 
he has had a stammering issue since childhood. This is an account of how, 
with the help of the activities in the course, he overcame his public speaking 
challenge.
"The other day I had to give a speech, initially I thought of backing off. 
But this time instead of focusing on (the) stammering I focused on the 
positives, like people are there to listen to the content and things like 
that. I just prepared the content well and just imagined myself speaking 
with confidence and articulating each word slowly. The moment I went
and faced the audience, the initial fear was like eagles pounding on me,
but when I spoke the first word, those fears vanished into the woods.
Somehow the magic happened, (I had) a sense of the "I can do it" 
attitude and I spoke, even to my astonishment."  
He went on to say that through this experience and the emotional 
intelligence MOOC, he developed a positive attitude towards public 
speaking. 
"...It was the same me, the same stammering and the same public 
speaking... But what I have learnt in the course is that, when I change 
the negative feeling of stammering to positive one, magic happens.
Thank you Prof Mushtak for touching my life." 
Andrea has confessed to having a short temper and she mentioned that 
ever since she started following the course, she found herself looking for 
hidden opportunities in every incident that would make her angry and then 
smiling at the thoughts. Now and again when anger still appears, she
approaches it differently. She narrates this incident of her and her daughter. 
"...like tonight when I got MAD at my daughter for not doing what I 
had asked her (my daughter is 3 and apparently is on a mission to test
me, provoke me and try my patience
). I did scold her, but the minute 
after I managed to compose myself again and explain to her my feelings 
and reactions. I was open to communicate with her whereas in the past 
I would not have been willing to listen to what she had to say because I 
was feeling my anger too much! We hugged and kissed and agreed that
we will always be friends and talk 
Granted, about 30 minutes later 
she embarked on her mission again and there it was, enter anger and 
madness. This time I didn't get to explain because she had fallen asleep, 
but will do it tomorrow. I was happy that I could talk to my husband 
about this, without still feeling angry and without snapping and 
yelling!" 
Chapter 4 
Conceive 
Conceive
 /k n si v/ v.
Create (an embryo) by fertilising an egg 
Form or devise (a plan or idea) in the mind 
Form a mental representation of; imagine 
Oxford Dictionary 
"Imagination is more important than knowledge." 
Albert Einstein
"Whatever the mind of man can conceive and believe, it can achieve." 
W. Clement Stone 
As mentioned earlier in the book, every human-made artefact somehow starts 
in the brain. This is true whether we are talking about a consumer product, a 
mobile phone app, a bridge, or an airplane. This is also true for other less 
tangible products such as songs, jokes, symphonies and novels. As a matter 
of fact, the number one thing that differentiates humans from other beings is 
our ability to imagine and create in our minds, things that are not present at
the moment or even yet exist. The defining factor (and the limiting factor as 
well) in enabling us to build homes, roads, cars, and all the other wonderful 
things that we have today is not that we have, arms, hands, fingers, legs or 
eyes; but the fact that we are able to imagine and Conceive, in our minds,
what is yet to exist. Even animals, such as the great apes, that exhibit
intelligence and primitive use of tools, and some insects that can build 
complex structures fail to progress towards developing a civilisation, 
principally because they lack imagination, which is a main ingredient of
Conceiving. 
Illustrating this point, we can cite numerous examples of individuals 
who, despite lacking fully able bodies since birth, managed to defy all odds
and create new realities for themselves and the people around them. Richie
Parker, for example, was born in South Carolina on May 1983. His father 
Tracy Parker was "dumbfounded," he told reporters years later, when the
doctors told him that his baby is born without arms. Nonetheless with the
help of his family, Richie was able to do all the things a normal child would 
do, including riding a bicycle and he ended up working as a vehicle design 
engineer at Hendrick Motorsports, one of the most successful companies in
the NASCAR business. If this is not impressive enough, we can take the 
example of Nick Vujicic who had no limbs when he was born in 1982 and 
ended up becoming an internationally acclaimed author and motivational 
speaker. 
Nick Vujicic (Source: Wiki Commons) 
The premise of this book is that we have the capacity to create and 
engineer our own frame of mind and mindsets, as we perceive the world and
imagine the future, and this is the basis for human creativity and potential. It
is therefore extremely important to cultivate a positive growth mindset that
harbours the conviction that every challenge, no matter how grand, has a 
solution that is waiting to be discovered and delivered and that there is no 
limit to what humankind can achieve. The true limit exists only in our minds 
and it becomes a reality once we believe that something is possible or
impossible. From an engineering perspective, Conceiving represents a very
deliberate and intentional stage of the CDIO process that can be learnt, and 
improved through systematic practice and coaching. While Conceiving (also 
called ideation) is directly connected to thinking, it is not only thinking. 
Instead, it is the use of the power of the positive mindset as well as knowledge 
and thinking skills to generate ideas and concepts for products and processes 
that can add value. It is worth reiterating here that the quality of ideas 
Conceived is affected by the mindset as much as they are affected by the 
mastery of the thinking skills and techniques. Conceiving also requires deep 
understanding of the nature of the challenge to be addressed or the potential 
of the opportunity to be realised. As demonstrated by Professor Shane 
Fredrick in his bat and ball example mentioned earlier, it is rather easy to fall 
into the trap of the illusion of knowing the answer to a question or a challenge 
before really understanding it. Hence, the systematic way in which the
Conceiving stage is structured here will protect us against falling for this 
illusion when following the rules.
4.1 
Preparing to Conceive 
Driven by the need to improve an existing situation or the hope of realisation 
of a foreseen opportunity, and armed with their technical knowledge and 
understanding of the existing paradigm, individuals can start using
systematic techniques to generate ideas. Before discussing the various 
techniques available in the engineers' toolbox to generate ideas, it is useful 
here to set the rules for successful Conceiving: 
1.
Clearly define and outline the challenge statement (or the opportunity 
statement) that is being worked on. If you are providing a solution to a 
client, the client requirements and desires as well as limitations need to 
be seriously considered and documented. This should be done in writing 
and it requires deep understanding of the current paradigm and its 
promises and limitations. 
2.
Gather sufficient information about the challenge or the opportunity that 
you are working on. This includes reviewing the literature, online
resources, and patent databases as well as performing market studies and 
surveys. Understanding the legal requirements, such as government 
regulations, represent an essential part of this information.
3.
Keep an open mind and do not converge on a solution prematurely. Do 
not start with a pre-conceived idea of how to solve the challenge or realise 
the opportunity. This goes hand in hand with the first point when we
define the challenge or the opportunity. For example, if we want to make 
a hole in the wall for a screw to hang a picture, the challenge statement 
should not be "to drill a hole in the wall" but instead it should be "to fix
a picture on the wall." This clever framing of the challenge can send us in 
a direction of making some sort of fastener that does not even require 
making a hole in the wall. Without this, it is almost certain that we will 
end up with a drill to make the hole. 
4.
Always trust the process. 
The above four rules are antidotes to the four temptations that engineers 
are often faced with. Falling for these temptations can render the Conceiving 
stage valueless, compromising the success of the entire CDIO process. These 
temptations are: 
1.
My team and I know what the challenge (or the opportunity) is. There is 
no need to write down the challenge (or the opportunity) statement. 
2.
What is in the literature is not relevant to the challenge I am facing. Or,
there are too many things to search. 
3.
I know what the solution should look like. 
4.
The process is too lengthy; I do not have to follow all of it step-by-step. 
As stressed in the Emotional Intelligence chapter, an important trait that 
needs to be developed to ensure successful Conceiving is empathy. As 
ultimately products and solutions we develop are to be used by other people, 
being able to empathise with others is an extremely valuable skill. 
4.2 
Ideation: The Art of Idea Generation 
There are numerous thinking and ideation techniques available. These 
techniques vary in their degree of structure and suitability for group or 
individual settings. This section outlines a few techniques that I personally
use and teach to both my students and the corporate clients. It is worth 
mentioning here that the corporate clients I train are not always engineers; 
they include bankers and governmental agencies' staff. If you are interested 
in reading more about these and other ideation techniques, you can refer to
the work of Edward De Bono, Tony Bozan and Darrell Mann. 
4.2.1 Brainstorming 
Brainstorming is one of the most widely used (and abused) methods of idea
generation. The term "brainstorming" is becoming ubiquitous and almost 
everyone is under the impression that they know how to brainstorm. Closer
examination shows that people get very little training on how to use this
technique. The brainstorming technique was first described by Alex Osborn. 
It can be used to generate ideas when working in groups of ideally 6-12
individuals. There are three main stages for a successful brainstorming 
episode, pre-session, session and post-session. 
The pre-session includes clearly defining the focus of the brainstorming 
session. This should be identified and written somewhere so that everyone 
participating in the brainstorming session can see it. Whether you are 
brainstorming to find ways to increase sales, raise funds or develop an
effective product, the first step is to define that focus. In the pre-session, a 
brain networking exercise will be very helpful in resulting in a fruitful 
brainstorming session. The brain networking is a warm up exercise that 
precedes a brainstorming session and is done as follows. Starting with a word,
an item or a picture provided by the leader, a member of the team needs to 
mention the first word that comes to mind when seeing the picture or hearing 
the word, the next member needs to mention the first word that comes to 
mind upon hearing the word said by the first team member. The third team
member needs to mention the word that comes to mind upon hearing the 
word of the second member and so on, this can go on for few rounds. You
will notice that in the beginning, the process is a bit awkward (especially 
when done for the first time), and it has many pauses, this is to be expected, 
so do not worry and continue until the process is smooth and words are 
coming spontaneously. This is an indication that everyone is now on the same
wavelength. 
The brainstorming session can now start. The team needs to assign a 
scribe who will be writing all the ideas contributed by the team members on 
a board or a flipchart. It is necessary to always remember the rules of
brainstorming which are:
1.
One conversation at a time. The team is encouraged to use a talking item 
(like a small ball); only the person who holds the item can talk.
2.
Stay focused on the topic. Check the ideas being generated against the
session focus to prevent the group from sliding away from that focus. 
3.
Emphasise quantity over quality. Brainstorming is aimed at generating
as many ideas as possible and as quickly as possible, so all ideas are 
welcome. 
4.
Encourage wild ideas. Wild ideas may not provide the solution you are 
looking for, but they can provide a gateway for a breakthrough into an
entirely new innovative solution. 
5.
 Postpone criticism of other people's ideas. This will encourage more
people to contribute more ideas and lead to a richer brainstorming 
session.  
6.
Build on the ideas of others. When you hear an idea, try to use it and
improve on it rather than starting a new non-related train of ideas. 
Now that many ideas have been generated, the post-session will focus 
on selecting the best ideas for further processing. This is done through
organising the ideas and combining similar ones. Every member of the team 
is then given three votes to vote for her/his favourite ideas. The ideas that 
received the highest number of votes are then selected for further processing
and improvement. 
A successful brainstorming session should produce a single idea (or a
few ideas) that addresses the session focus that the team is very satisfied with 
and ready to work on and implement. 
Ideas Selection and Classification 
4.2.2 Random Entry 
Random entry is a powerful technique that can help generate real 
breakthroughs in a divergent variety of situations; however, it requires some
training to achieve the best results quickly. The random entry technique can 
be summarised as follows: 
1.
Clearly define the focus of the ideation session. 
2.
Select a random object to be at the centre of the process. 
3.
Identify the different attributes of this object. 
4.
Superimpose the object's attributes on the focus and see if it makes sense
or presents an interesting idea line for thoughts to follow.
To demonstrate this technique, imagine that you are working for a 
company that manufactures computer printers. Your company needs to
develop a breakthrough product that differentiates it from competitors and 
your boss asked you to come up with the product idea. Using random entry, 
you define you focus as "A new printing product" and the random object to
be a flower. The traits of the flower include: colour, smell, pollination, thorn, 
garden, spring, etc... Superimposing the traits on the focus will result in
things like:
1.
Colour based/related printing product 
2.
Smell based/related printing product
3.
Pollination based/related printing product 
4.
Thorn based/related printing product
5.
Garden based/related printing product 
6.
Spring based/related printing product
Clearly, the colour printing has already been invented, but the smell 
based printing product is an interesting line of thinking to be pursued and
developed further. So this may lead to a printer that can print pictures that 
have smell and developed further into a product which enables you to
capture the smell of a place when you capture a picture and reproduce the 
smell when the picture is printed. Imagine scent cartridges next to the ink 
cartridges of your printer! 
Printing Product: An Example of Random Entry 
Random entry technique can be used individually (by one person) and
in teams. Clearly, it is highly unstructured and the results are highly
dependent on the object used to start the process as well as the selected 
attributes of this object. That is why this technique is recommended when we 
are running out of ideas to address the challenge and when we are mentally 
stuck. In this case arbitrariness, randomness and uncertainty can be rather 
liberating. If the first selected object did not yield a suitable idea, the process 
can be repeated either with a new object or with one of the attributes of the 
current object as the starting point. 
Random Entry Case Study
Our economy is still, by and large, dependent on fossil fuel for energy 
generation. This results in huge amounts of carbon dioxide being released
into the atmosphere, contributing to climate change. One way to mitigate this 
is carbon sequestration, where the emitted carbon dioxide is captured and
pumped underground into bedrock deep underground. One of the Grand 
Challenges for Engineering is to develop effective techniques for carbon 
sequestration. Using the random entry method, let's Conceive some new 
ideas to achieve carbon sequestration. 
Carbon sequestration is generally done through removing carbon 
dioxide from the atmosphere and storing it in long-term reservoirs, normally 
underground. To Conceive some new ideas (ideate) to achieve this objective, 
let us first craft the statement that will drive the ideation process. As we are
looking for new ways to store carbon dioxide we can try statements like, 
"Carbon dioxide stored as ____________"
Then we need to pick a random object to drive the random entry process, 
let us pick a pebble and identify the different attributes of this pebble which 
may include: 
1.
Spherical - round 
2.
Colourful - colour
3.
Hard - solid
4.
Playable - joy
5.
Collide with other pebbles-energy 
6.
etc. 
Inserting each of the attributes into the statement above, we will have the
following statement to try to make sense of: 
Carbon dioxide stored or converted into something round- storing it into 
round shape (storage tank for example). 
Carbon dioxide stored as colourful material. 
Carbon dioxide stored as solid/hard object. 
Carbon dioxide stored as game or a toy. 
Carbon dioxide stored as energy 
If none of the attributes gave a meaningful insight, we may use the
attributes themselves as a source to expand the word list and inspire more
ideas. Ultimately, we may use a different object altogether. In this case, 
converting carbon dioxide into a hard object seems like an interesting idea
that can be developed further. What if we can make bricks that captures the 
carbon dioxide within them? 
As mentioned earlier, the results of the random entry technique are 
clearly dependent on the random object selected to seed the process and the
experience of the practitioners. But in this divergent nature of the technique 
lies its power. You may need to repeat the process using different objects 
before achieving satisfactory results. 
4.2.3 Trimming
This process is suitable when working with an existing process, product or
system with the intention of improving it. It can be performed by an 
individual or in a group and it has three primary steps:
1.
Break the process, product or system into its individual main components. 
2.
Identify the functions of each components 
3.
Mentally, select a seemingly important component (function) and trim it
4.
Ask yourself "Now, how do I make it work without the removed component?!"
This very powerful method can help us overcome some of our thinking
biases. Many of the well-established products have earned themselves a 
permanent mental image: try to imagine a car, an airplane or a toaster and
you will see how difficult it is to come up with a radically different version of
them. When we are forced to remove (trim) an important component of the
process, product or system we are improving, we put our minds in different 
frames that can enable breakthroughs.
An example of using the trimming can be demonstrated here. If you start 
with eyeglasses, you will notice that they have two major components, the 
lenses and the frame. Now if we trim the frame and try to make it work, 
inevitably we will end up with contact lenses.
Besides product design, trimming technique works for developing new
ideas for business models and processes as well. Think of a bookstore, its 
business model has components such as publishers, books, shop, workers, 
payment system, etc... Now, let us try to trim the shop and think of a way to 
make the bookstore work. This will lead us to having something like 
Amazon.com, a bookstore without shops. Let us try something different, trim 
the publishers while keeping the business model operational. It is actually 
possible to have a new bookstore that works exclusively with the authors 
helping them to write and market their books directly to the reader. This 
bookstore may be serving a very niche and specialised market. Currently, 
services such as Lulu.com are performing a similar roles where authors can
get their books printed on demand and sold without the need for publishers. 
Glasses and Contact Lenses (Source: Wiki Commons)
Try to think of washing machines without water and a car without 
wheels and see how this can this lead to innovative new products. 
4.2.4 
Blue Ocean Strategy
W. Chan Kim and Renée Mauborgne of INSEAD developed the concept of 
the Blue Ocean Strategy, which refers to the development of new markets and 
new competitive advantages. In their book 'Blue Ocean Strategy', they 
discussed how businesses and organisations can make the competition 
irrelevant by creating new markets and moving away from the highly 
contested traditional value propositions, or what they termed "Red Ocean." 
They proposed a four-step technique to achieve that. The technique goes by 
the acronym ERIC (Eliminate, Reduce, Increase, Create). The technique looks 
at what the industry in which the organisation operates is providing and
competing on and ask the following questions: 
1.
Eliminate: What is the organisation/industry providing now that can be
entirely eliminated without affecting the value delivered? 
2.
Reduce: What is the organisation/industry providing now that can be 
reduced without affecting the value delivered?
3.
Increase: What is the organisation/industry providing now that should 
be increased to enhance the value delivered? 
4.
Create: What is the organisation/industry not providing now that it 
should start creating to enhance the value delivered?
These questions entail studying what is available and adjusting what is 
being offered. The first and fourth questions, specifically, requires groundbreaking and original thinking to remove an offering that is seen essential or 
adding an offering that has never been considered before. 
When Steve Jobs became CEO of Apple in 1997, he applied a similar 
process to reinvigorate Apple and bring it back to the main stream of the 
industry. First he entirely eliminated the printers and servers divisions of
Apple. Second, to rationalise the wide range of products the company made, 
he drew a two by two matrix with the columns marked Personal and 
Professional, and the rows marked desktop and mobile. He challenged Apple
engineers to decide the four products that will fit in the four quadrants of this 
matrix for the company to focus on. This led to the dramatic reduction of what 
is being offered and allowed the company to perform the third step of the 
Blue Ocean Strategy, to increase what really matters, which is the humancentric design and user friendliness of its products. The final step was to offer
new products and services that were not traditionally seen as part of the
industry's offering. In this, Steve Jobs was particularly successful as he
introduced the company into the music business (iPod and iTunes), phone 
business (iPhone) and tablet business (iPad). 
The technique can be extended to product design by rewording the four 
questions to be: 
1.
 What features/parts of the studied product/process can be entirely
eliminated?
2.
What features/parts of the studied product/process can be reduced? 
3.
What features/parts of the studied product/process should be increased?
4. What additional features/parts should be created in the studied 
product/process? 
The ERIC grid shown on the next page can be used when utilising the
Blue Ocean Strategy to create improved products and processes. The example 
given here is for a budget airline. 
ERIC Grid for Budget Airline
The ERIC framework is aimed at strategically diverting resources from 
what is Eliminated and Reduced towards what is Increased and Created in 
order to produce new value and create an uncontested market. A highly
useful tool to facilitate the creation and utilisation of ERIC framework is the 
"strategy canvas", which is a diagram with a horizontal axis that portrays the 
range of factors that the industry competes on, invests in and devotes
resources to, while the vertical axis depicts the value offering levels that 
customers receive across all of these key competing factors. To develop the 
strategy canvas, the following steps can be used: 
1.
Identify the factors the industry is currently competing on. 
2.
Plot these factors on the horizontal axis of the Strategy Canvas. 
3.
 For each "competing factor" indicate the industry benchmark "value 
offering level". This is done on the vertical axis with a scale that ranges
from low to high. Connecting the points will give the existing value curve. 
4. Identify what factors to Eliminate, Reduce and Increase in order to 
develop the new value curve. 
5.
Identify what new factors to add to the horizontal axis that no competitor 
is currently considering. 
6.
Connecting the value offering levels of points 4 and 5 will result in the 
Blue Ocean Strategy value curve. 
To demonstrate the use of Strategy Canvas, let us study how a circus
successfully deployed it to create new value curve. Circuses around the world
are challenged by reduced revenues and competition of other forms of 
entertainment. A key component of circus spectacle, animal performance, is 
becoming a liability with high insurance and cost of care for the animals and 
with more people growing uncomfortable with the use of animals for 
entertainment. Cirque du Soleil is a Canadian circus founded in 1984 that 
responded to the challenges it was facing with Blue Ocean Strategy thinking. 
The circus wanted to reinvent the experience of its customers and provide 
them with a differentiated value by rebranding its shows and pricing them
closer to the prices of a musical or theatre, which well beyond what customers 
are used to pay for a circus ticket. To achieve this, customers would expect a 
more refined and sophisticated entertainment experience. 
Blue Ocean Strategy Canvas for Cirque du Soleil  
The circus management decide to Eliminate animal shows, the use of star
performers, multiple show arenas as well as the sale of food and drinks in the 
aisles of the circus. To create a more sophisticated viewers experience, the 
circus Reduced thrill and danger as well humour in favour of more 
intellectual encounters. This resulted in an Increased unique and 
differentiated offering compared to competing circuses. To cement its 
position as a competitor to the theatre and musical shows, the circus Created 
a refined viewing environment and multiple productions. The Strategy
Canvas for Cirque du Soleil is shown above. This Blue Ocean Strategy 
thinking yielded very good results and while other circuses are closing down,
Cirque du Soleil is thriving. The unique offering of Cirque du Soleil can be
seen by having a look at its website at:
http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/en/home/shows.aspx  
Cirque du Soleil's Website 
Now, as an exercise, try using the Blue Ocean Strategy to improve the 
domestic refrigerator and the process of applying for a credit card. 
4.2.5 Trend Recognition
Innovation is driving technology to be better, faster, lighter, smaller, easier to 
use and cheaper. This drive towards a perfect state is represented by some 
trends that can be recognised as pathways for technological advancement. 
Observing these trends, we can use them to generate new ideas for products, 
services and solutions. It is necessary to mention here that trend recognition 
is not a methodology to predict the future, but mainly a technique to generate 
ideas. The reason that I present this caveat is that our track record of 
predicting the future of technology is less than impressive. I was born in 1970 
and since my childhood, I liked to read popular scientific materials. During 
the seventies, there was an obsession with predicting how the world would 
look like in the year 2000. The articles and books I read featured robots that 
did the house chores, flying cars and school trips to the moon. None of the 
articles predicted the Internet, Google or Facebook. In short the futurists 
predicted an energy revolution not an information revolution.  
Enough with the caveat and let us look into the trends that can be 
observed in a number of domains. These will be discussed in the following 
sections. 
4.2.5.1 Materials becoming smarter
Most of the materials that we have used since the dawn of civilisation are 
passive. They do not respond and change with the changes in their 
environment. This is slowly changing and products are being increasingly
made out of adaptive materials that can adapt to the usage requirements and 
the environment. Understanding this trend can be a useful and
straightforward technique to Conceive new products, if you already have a 
product that is made of a conventional material, ask yourself, can I make it 
out of an adaptive material? This technique can be used to Conceive products 
that vary from smart furniture that will adapt to the shape of human body 
and its temperature to airplane wings that can change with different flying 
conditions. 
Memory Foam, an Example of a Smart Material (Source: Wiki Commons) 
4.2.5.2 
Dematerialisation: From Atoms to Bits
Many of the products that used to be physical in nature now have an
electronic version or have moved into the electronic realm all together. These 
include books, music, tickets and receipts. A number of services have moved
into the virtual space, these include bookstores and other retail outlets. With 
the advancement of rapid prototyping technologies and 3D printers, the 
trend seems to be that more and more products will be sold online where 
companies will be selling the digital files for variety of products. Customers 
can then download these digital files and get them printed at home or at local 
printing centres. So instead of shipping atoms and physical objects, the trend 
is heading gradually to shipping bits through the Internet. 
When searching for ideas for improving products and services, ask 
yourself this question: Can I make the product or the service digital? 
Currently, researchers are working on 3D printers that can print variety of
materials from metals to plastics and even electronics and food. Imagine 
being able to download pizza or your own car over the Internet one day! 
3D Printing Technology. Enabling the Transformation from Shipping Atoms to
Shipping Bits
4.2.5.3 Space Segmentation
The next time you iron your shirt, think of the journey of the iron as a product! 
It started as a solid block of metal that is heated externally using coal. The
improved version was a hollow iron with burning coal inside, this resulted in 
less material used and longer heating time, since the heating element is 
carried within the iron itself. Current irons are hollow structures with 
multiple holes for steam release. This depicts the story of the space
segmentation trend. This is briefly shown below: 
Solid 
Hollow Structure 
Structure with Multiple Holes
Porous Structure.  
The Evolution of the Clothes Iron (Source: Wiki Commons) 
So when you have a product that is made of solid material, think "Can I 
make it hollow?" 
4.2.5.4 Surface
Rough surfaces have many advantages over smooth ones. As a matter of fact,
under the microscope, no surface is perfectly smooth. Interestingly, even
from a drag reduction point of view, it is better to make a surface rough. That 
is why golf balls have those distinctive dimples. Often making a smooth 
surface rougher with dimples or ribs will improve it in one way or another. 
This could be to reduce the drag on an airplane wing, increase the tyre contact
with the road, improve the heat dissipation from engines or improve the grip
of a coffee cup. 
So when you see a smooth surface, explore what benefits will result if it 
is made rough with dimples, ribs or spikes.  
Golf Balls have Dimples to Reduce Drag (Source: Wiki Commons) 
4.2.5.5 Object Segmentation Evolution
From a segmentation point of view, objects and products may go through the 
following evolutional stages: 
Solid 
Segmented Solid 
Flexible 
Fluid
Field
It is not necessary that a given product goes through all the stages one 
by one, but it is clear that there is a shift of technology in this direction. For
example, to measure length we use a measuring stick (solid); for larger
lengths we developed segmented measuring sticks (segmented solid) and 
measuring tapes (flexible), and for even larger lengths we developed laserbased devices to measure length (laser as a measuring device is an example 
of a field). 
The Evolution of Measuring Devices (Source: Wiki Commons, GetMeter.com) 
4.2.5.6 Size
Most of the devices start their life bulky. As time goes by they become smaller,
then they move towards shrinking in size to be at the micro-scale level and 
eventually in the nanoscale level. This tells the story of almost everything. 
The first computers needed dedicated buildings to house them, but they now 
can fit on very small electronic boards within our TV sets, cars and 
refrigerators. If you want a new idea for a product, you can ask yourself 
simply, can I make it smaller?  
The Evolution of Mobile Phones throughout the Years (Source: Nokia.com)
4.2.5.7 Multiple Functionality  
Mobile Phones was only Used to Make Calls and Send Text Messages in the past. 
Now They Have All Kinds of Functions. 
If a product performs one function, it is called a mono-system. If it can
perform two or three functions it is called bi-system and tri-system 
respectively. Those products capable of performing multiple tasks are called
poly-systems. An example of mono-system versus poly-system is the 
ordinary knife versus the Swiss Army knife. This evolution is best 
demonstrated by observing how mobile phones evolved from devices mainly 
to make and receive calls to a device that takes pictures, organises 
appointments, plays music, and an endless list of functions.
4.2.5.8  Price: The Journey to Zero
Often new products are sold for a high price when they are first introduced, 
and only few people can afford them. As the innovation continues, the prices 
decrease. Interestingly, with the introduction of the information revolution, 
many products are not only becoming cheaper but also absolutely free. Think 
of free e-mail, Facebook, Twitter, newspapers, news, YouTube channels, and 
all the other products that the internet has made possible. This trend is 
moving beyond the electronic products where innovative business models 
are making more and more products free for the consumers. Chris Anderson
in his book 'Free' outlined fifty different business models that are built on 
being free. 
Moving towards free can be used to Conceive a variety of business 
models and products. You can take any current product or service that is sold 
now and ask yourself these questions: 
1.
How can I make it free?
2.
How can I make part of it free?
3.
How can I make it free to part of the consumers?
4.2.5.9 Personalisation
Industrialisation was responsible for making products and services available 
to the masses at a reasonable cost. However, as humans, we are 
individualistic creatures, and we always yearn to be treated on that basis. 
Now the technology is progressively allowing personalisation of products 
and services, and this trend is expected to continue. I wrote this section on 
January 7th, 2014, the Google doodle today is of the late Yasmin Ahmad, an
award winning Malaysian film director, and today is her 56th birthday. 
Detecting that I was accessing Google from Malaysia, Google was able to
personalise my experience. This trend is now moving into other goods and
services as well. Credit cards, for example, can be personalised. While 
customised cars are still expensive, the trend is clearly moving towards this 
direction
Google Personalises its User Interface (Source: Google Doodles) 
When contemplating or Conceiving new products and services, we can 
always ask the question "How can I make it more personalised?" This is true
if we are producing a car, a credit card or even a haircut.
4.2.6 
Biomimicry and Learning from Nature
Nature is a great source of inspiration for everyone and especially for 
engineers and designers. Knowingly or unknowingly, we have been using
nature as a source of inspiration for new ideas. Take for example the old
dream of flying. Humans envied birds for millennia and the first attempts at 
flying were sheer imitations of the birds using wings fitted with feathers. 
Now endless products that we use and take for granted are inspired by nature. 
This includes RADAR technology which imitates bats, and high performance
swimming suits that are inspired by shark skin. If we imitate nature
successfully, we shall be able to build high performance pumps that imitate 
the heart, powerful computers and software that resemble the brain, filters 
that copy the principles of kidneys, and high efficiency photovoltaic cells that 
are inspired by the tree leaves. 
Next time we are faced with a challenge we can ask ourselves, 
Has nature provided a similar solution?
Can we adapt a similar solution to the challenge we are facing? 
4.3 
Concept Evaluation and Selection 
We have thus far explored a number of ideation techniques. Clearly the
choice of the technique depends on the nature of the challenge as well as the 
personal preference. Naturally, ideation techniques yield numerous ideas 
and concepts and it is essential to have a systematic way to classify these ideas 
and select the most appropriate ones. After generating a number of concepts, 
a selection process needs to take place to allow convergence on the most 
suitable concept and moving into the Design stage. To systematically achieve 
this, we can do the following:
1.
Cluster similar ideas together and integrate them. This will reduce the 
number of ideas by eliminating repeated ideas and combining ideas that 
can be integrated together. 
2.
To converge on the final idea a team can either adopt a voting strategy or 
use the decision matrix. 
When voting is used, just like with the Brainstorming technique, each
member of the team is given 3 votes which they can assign to their favourite 
idea(s). The idea that receives the highest number of votes will be selected.
The decision matrix is a more structured way to select ideas and it
requires more work. If we are in the process of CDIO-ing a new racing bicycle 
for bicycle manufacturers and we have converged on 4 main concepts, the
construction of the decision matrix takes place as follows: 
1.
The team identifies the top 5 features or attributes in a descending order 
of importance as required by the client. So let us say that these attributes
are: 
5: Speed
4: Lightweight
3: Reliability
2: Ease of manufacturing
1: Cost 
Clearly for a racing bicycle, speed is the most important requirement 
while the cost is the least important. 
2.
Now construct a table with the row headings referring to the different 
attributes and the columns referring to the different concepts generated. 
Each of the 4 main conceived concepts needs to be assigned a number in
relation to each of the 5 attributes. These numbers will range from 1 to 4 
(the number of the studied attributes). A value of 1 indicates that a 
concept contributes the least to the given attribute while a value of 4 
indicates that a concept contributes the most to the given attribute. So if 
we take the attribute of speed, the concept that contributes the most to 
speed is rated 4 (this should equal the number of concepts being
considered) and the concept that ranks the lowest is rated 1. This is 
repeated for the other concepts. The decision matrix is shown below. The 
number each concept ranks on a given attribute is multiplied by the 
weight (importance) of that attribute. Adding these together will give the 
score of each concept. Although concept 2 did not rank the highest on all
the attributes, it is clearly the winner of this comparison. 
Decision Matrix 
Concept
Concept
Attribute Weight
1 
2 
Concept 
Concept
3 
4 
Speed  5  3x5 4x5 2x5 1x5 
Light weight 4  4x4 2x4 3x4 1x4 
Reliability  3  2x3 4x3 3x3 2x3 
Manufacturability 2  2x2 3x2 1x2 4x2 
Cost  1  2x1 1x1 3x1 4x1 
Score
43 47 39 27 
After completing the Conceiving stage, a final test for the quality of the 
selected concept is necessary. Answering the list of questions below can help
ensure the quality and adequacy of the selected concepts at the end of the 
Conceiving process: 
1.
Is it desirable? Will the customer desire what I am making? Does it solve 
a challenge or satisfy a need? 
2.
Is it economically viable? Will the customer be willing to pay for it? Is 
there a way to make it cheaper and add more value?
3.
Is it feasible? Is there technology to make available?
4.
Is it ethical and legal? Does making or selling it infringe on any law or
intellectual property (IP)? 
5.
How can I make it safe for both those who make it and use it?
6.
How can I make it easy to make and use? 
7.
How can I reduce its impact on the environment even when it is no longer
in use? 
Chapter 5 
Design 
Design
 / d
z
n/
Decide upon the look and functioning of (a building, garment, or other 
object), by making a detailed drawing of it; 
Do or plan (something) with a specific purpose in mind. 
Oxford Dictionary 
"Design is not just what it looks like and feels like. Design is how it 
works." 
Steve Jobs 
Design can mean different things in different contexts, from art to engineering 
to product design. In general, design refers to the clever arrangement of
different components to work harmoniously to deliver a value or perform a 
task. The Design stage of the CDIO process refers to the cumulative and 
iterative process of bringing imagination a step closer to manifestation 
through the use of science, mathematics and common sense to convert
resources and achieve prescribed objectives. It is important to stress here that 
the Conceiving and Designing processes are not separated but integrated and
working on the Designing stage may require going back to tweak or even
totally change the ideas developed at the Conceiving stage. 
5.1 
Function and Form 
Design refers to creating the marriage between the form (the look) and 
function of products and objects. Whether what is being designed is a car, a 
television, a website, a book cover or a survey form, good designs result in
products that are functional, safe, easy to use, and economical as well as 
appealing. Deciding on function and form happens at different system levels.
Let us consider designing an office door and let us call it the "super-system." 
Its subsystems will include the door plank, hinges, doorframe and doorknob. 
Note that each subsystem may be considered as a super-system in
comparison to its components, and can be analysed in a similar way. The
function(s) of a super-system are called the "requirements". Often the form
of the super-system is a very important part of the requirements as well. 
When you buy a car, your requirements would include a certain speed and 
performance, size, accessories as well as look and colour. As we move down 
into the direction of the subsystem, the importance of form reduces if the
parts are less visible and are not in direct contact with the end user.  
It is useful here to define the concept of affordance which refers to the
property of an object or environment that enables the user to perform a 
function. The doorknob, for example, affords twisting and enables the 
function of locking and unlocking the door. Likewise, a slot affords inserting,
and a button affords pushing. Good designs ensure that affordance is made
visible and mapped clearly towards the desired functions so that the user can 
easily figure out how the product can be used. More on this is discussed later 
in the book. 
5.2 
The Design Process 
The Design process is very evolutionary and iterative process by nature. At
different stages of the design process we may need to go back to experiments 
and even to repeat the Conceiving process. The Design process is used to
design super-systems as well as subsystems and sub-subsystems. For 
example, a design team may be designing a car (super-system) while other 
teams are designing subsystems such as the engine or the exhaust muffler for 
the car. As the Design evolves, all teams need to align their work and continue 
communicating with each other to ensure an integrated design that meets the
requirements.  
Armed with ideas and concepts conceived at the Conceiving stage, 
generally the design process evolves through four stages, these are System
Architecture Design, Configuration Design, Integrated Design and Detailed 
Design. For easy recall we can use the acronym ACID (Architecture, 
Configuration, Integrated and Detailed). These evolutionary stages are 
outlined below. 
The Design Process. A.C.I.D. 
5.2.1 System Architecture
In this stage the main subsystems (components) of the super-system (product
or process) necessary to deliver the super-system's requirements are
identified. The components are selected based on their functions that, when
orchestrated together, will deliver the symphony of the desired requirements. 
If we are to design a product, let us say a mobile phone, the system 
architecture design will identify the main subsystems of the mobile phones 
as:
Microprocessor 
Microphone and speaker 
Camera 
Touch screen
Battery 
Operating system 
Printed Circuit Board 
Antenna 
System Configuration Design of a Mobile Phone 
System architecture design is also applicable when designing a digital
product such as a phone app, software or a website. For example, if the design
assignment involves designing an online bookshop, the system architecture 
will include the different functions and modules involved which may include: 
Search function 
Payment module
Book recommendation module 
Customer feedback section
Frequently asked questions 
System Configuration Design of a Website 
Likewise if we are designing a process to receive customer feedback, the
process architecture will involve identifying the main users and the main
actions, the service level agreement, and the maximum period of time before 
the customer will receive feedback. This can include customer submission
points and decision-making stages and assessment points. 
The outcome of this process is normally a sketch that depicts all the
components of the product, system or the process and how they connect with 
each other. When performing the system configuration design, it is essential 
to consider the legal and economic requirements governing the use of the 
final product. For example, in order for cars to be sold in certain markets, it is 
compulsory for them to have airbags and catalytic converters. Certain energy 
saving technologies are also becoming part of the requirement for home
appliances to be marketed in some countries. This understanding should be 
reflected when selecting the subsystem components. 
5.2.2 Configuration Design
At this stage the product starts to take shape with decisions about the forms 
and functions being made. These decisions will include modelling, sizing, 
and materials and components selection. How these decisions are made will 
be based on the customer's requirements and budget. Final selections will 
depend on the designer's experience as well as testing, trial and error, and 
computer simulations. Referring to the mentioned mobile phone example, the 
configuration design will involve identifying the specifications of the 
following: 
Mobile phone dimensions 
Mobile phone weight
Microprocessor speed and manufacturer
Microphone and speaker capacity 
Camera resolution
Touch screen size and sensitivity 
Battery size and rating 
Operating system (homemade or third party) 
As the configuration design progresses, it is useful to start building soft 
models of the final product to see how it will look and handle. The picture 
below shows foam and cardboard models of the famous Polaroid camera. 
These soft models are cheap to make and they will give the designer an idea
of what the final product will look like, allowing quick changes and 
improvements to be made. 
Polaroid Camera Soft Models 
5.2.3 Integrated Design
This is a step closer to the final design where systems start to emerge and 
interactions between different parts are seen. In this stage, the designer
ensures that all parts, hardware and software are compatible and are able to 
fit together cohesively. This process involves modelling, simulation and 
optimisation of different parts of the super-system, including any software 
requirements. Considerations such as manufacturability, recyclability,
maintenance as well as legal requirements, which include not infringing on 
patents and intellectual properties of others, are documented and taken care 
of. Often a rough working prototype made with soft tools and using rapid
prototyping technologies emerges from this stage of design and these can be 
subjected to further testing and fine-tuning. 
5.2.4 Detailed Design
Completing all the three steps above, the designers will be in a position to 
produce detailed designs and drawings that can be shipped across the world
to be Implemented and manufactured. Besides these detailed engineering 
drawings, the detailed design stage also results in a detailed Bill of Materials 
(BoM), which is a list of all the parts that make a given product. The BoM 
outlines the names, part numbers and quantities of all the components
making the final product. A final cost of the product is also worked out and 
this will help make decisions on how the product will be manufactured. An 
example of a simple BoM for a bicycle is given as an example.
Bill of Materials (BoM) 
Part
Part No 
Qty. Unit ItemName 
Price ($) 
1 
Tyre Rim
BC-100-TR-x01 
2 
5 
2 
Tyre 
BC-100-TT-01 
2 
3 
Supplier
ABC Pvt Ltd 
XYZ Pvt Ltd 
3 Frame BC-100-FR-01 1  15 In house 
4 Saddle BC-100-SD-01 1  5  In house 
5 Bolts BC-100-BT-01 20 0.2 A-Fasteners 
6 Nuts BC-100-NT-01 20 0.2 A-Fasteners 
Detailed Engineering Drawing 
5.3 
Design Optimisation and Trade-Offs 
Often designers are faced with conflicting requirements when they perform 
their tasks. These include making the product both strong and light 
(maximise strength and minimise weight), durable and affordable (maximise
durability and minimise cost), minimise the development cost and minimise 
the environmental impact and so on. Balancing these conflicting
requirements requires trading off some features or capabilities in order to
achieve others which are of more importance. This is called design
optimisation and it can be achieved using rule of thumb as well as some
mathematical and statistical tools.
5.4 
Other Design Considerations 
It is necessary to mention here that a major part of the design is to predict 
how a product or a process may fail to deliver the required outcome and
attempt to mitigate that. The failure could be a mechanical or material failure, 
where a product component may breakdown with repeated use or
unexpected surge of load. To mitigate this failure, designers need to "overdesign" the components that support most of the stresses through adding a 
Factor of Safety which is defined below.
Factor of Safety
Design Stress
Normal Stress
- ratio of Design Stress to Normal stress 
- the stress a component is designed to support before 
failing
- the stress that a component is normally exposed to 
Design redundancy is another way to mitigate component failure and 
increase product reliability. If the design requires a pump or a filter, and the
cost of failure of the pump is very high, a designer may opt to install two
pumps instead of one. This way the designer will ensure functionality if one
of the pumps fails or is being serviced or replaced.
Other considerations to be taken while designing include: 
1.
 Design for Manufacturability: Designers need to make sure that 
manufacturing and delivering the product or service is no more 
complicated that it should be. One way to achieve this is standardisation
of similar parts and fasteners. Imagine having a product that you can put 
together using screws and bolts and nuts of similar size, requiring the use
of fewer tools.  
2.
Design for ease of use and operability: Good products are intuitive and 
easy to use. Understanding what a product affords and make these
affordances visible so that the user knows what to press, or what to turn 
in order to safely operate the product. Designers also can introduce
constraints that make wrong usage of the product not possible. If the
batteries need to be inserted in a certain way into an electronic appliance, 
the manufacturers often put a sign indicating the correct way of inserting 
them. A better design would be to make it impossible to insert the 
batteries incorrectly. 
3.
Design for safety: Designers need to ensure that they take the safety of 
the users into their consideration. If the product is to be used by small 
children, then neither the product nor its packaging should contain
hazardous parts such as small parts that children may insert in their ears 
or noses, or any parts that represent a choking hazard. Other safety 
considerations would be the avoidance of toxic materials and materials
that are a fire hazard.
4.
Design for aesthetics: We mentioned earlier that function and form are
both important features of design. In this era of abundance, building
products that simply do the job is not good enough. Products need to look 
and feel good as well.
5.
Design for sustainability: With all the environmental challenges that we
are facing in this century, designers and engineers have only one choice,
to design for a sustainable future. This is done through making products 
out of less materials and making them to consume less energy during 
both manufacturing and operation. The materials used need to be
recyclable and the design itself needs to make the process of recycling 
easy. 
6.
Design for affordability: If the product is designed to be introduced to the
masses, then designers need to make decisions related to the materials 
used and the manufacturing processes, and even functions to ensure that
the price of the product is within the reach of the market segment being 
addressed.
At the end of a good design stage, you will need to be able to check off
most of the points below in relation to the product or service you are 
designing. This includes: 
The design is desirable. It looks and feels good. 
The design is technologically feasible. The technology to make it is 
available.
The design is economically viable. Users will be willing to buy for the 
recommended price.
The design is legal and ethical. It does not infringe on any law or IP
The design is environmentally sustainable. 
The design is easy to manufacture
The designed system is easy to operate and maintain
Five ways the system may fail have been identified and mitigated in 
the design. 
Five ways the user may use the system wrongly and/or unsafely have 
been identified and measures to prevent them have been 
incorporated in the design. 
The engineering drawings and/or the software outline are clear. 
The BoM is exhaustive and clearly documented. 
Chapter 6 
Implement 
Implement /
mpl m nt /
Put (a decision, plan, agreement, etc.) into effect
Oxford Dictionary 
After a product, solution or process has been Conceived and Designed, it is 
time to execute it and bring it to life. This stage of the process is called
Implementation and it is as important as the other steps in the CDIO cycle. 
Many good plans and designs fail to achieve their objectives simply because 
of poor Implementation and execution. The Implementation stage involves a 
great deal of management and coordination of various resources including
time, human, and physical resources. It also requires integrating software and 
hardware components, working with various multidisciplinary teams and
the ability to communicate and manage projects well. 
6.1 Hardware Manufacturing Process 
After the design is completed, both the hardware and software (if any) need 
to be implemented. Depending on the volume of the product to be produced 
as well as the available budget and timeframe, a suitable manufacturing
technique is selected. This process will start with producing a working 
prototype which can be used to perform further testing of the product. The
prototype can be constructed using a variety of manufacturing techniques 
including the use of CNC machines, rapid prototyping machines and the use
of soft tooling and vacuum forming. The prototype serves as a proof of 
concept for the suitability of the selected manufacturing process. 
Taylor's Racing Car. From the Drawing Board to the Racetrack. 
6.2 Software Implementing Process 
The software content of a given product varies from zero, for basic hardware 
products, to almost 100% for software-based products such as websites and
computer-based systems. Whatever the case, the software needs to be
programmed using a suitable programming language, making sure that the 
factors and units used in both the hardware and software are homogenous. 
This is especially important when working in multinational teams or with 
multi-sites where different systems of units are used. 
iPad controlled Robot Project by Foundation in Engineering Students
6.3 Hardware Software Integration 
More and more products and appliances have software intelligence in them.
This is true for cars, televisions, and even home appliances such as microwave 
ovens and refrigerators. Software is necessary to control and optimise the
performance of many of the products that we use today ensuring low energy 
consumption and providing connectivity and convenience. For the successful 
and safe use of a product, the hardware and software should integrate
smoothly. NASA engineers learned the importance of proper hardwaresoftware integration the hard way when they lost the Mars Climate Orbiter 
on September 23rd, 1999. The orbiter was Conceived, Designed, Implemented
and Operated by NASA to study the climate of Mars. The orbiter (hardware)
was designed based on the SI (metric) units while the ground-based computer 
software produced output in Imperial units. This resulted in the sending of 
incorrect instructions to the orbiter causing it to come dangerously close to 
the Martian atmosphere and disintegrating. The orbiter cost USD125 million
to develop and launch.
6.4 Testing, Verification, Validation, and Certification 
The final system, service or product with hardware and software fully 
integrated needs to be tested to verify and validate that it meets the design
requirements. Systems, services and products can be exposed to a barrage of 
tests depending on their nature and application. 
Engineers need to develop a "Testing Plan" to verify the items that need 
to be tested and validate that these tested items conform to the design
specifications and requirements. The Testing Plan is a document that outlines 
the testing protocol indicating the test parameters based on the design 
specifications of the system or product, the testing range, the type of tests and 
the tools for the tests. The protocol is aimed at validating the achievement of 
the customer's requirements as represented by the design specifications. The 
tests can be for the super-system and each and every one of the subsystems. 
Many of the products that involve the safety of people, such as cars, children's 
toys and home appliances, need to be tested and certified by independent 
bodies before they can be introduced into the market. 
These tests can include the following: 
1.
Dimensional test: To verify that the product conforms to the designed 
dimensions. 
2.
Visual test: To verify that the colours, look and feel are according to the 
design specifications. 
3.
Functionality test: To verify that the system performs the functions it is 
designed to perform. 
4.
 Reliability test: Products need to ensure that they can perform their 
functions over an extended period of time and in variety of 
environmental conditions. 
5.
Power measurements: If the product has a power rating, this needs to be 
tested and verified. 
6.
 Signal quality test: For products that have some electronic signal 
exchanged, it is necessary to test for the quality, frequency, interference 
and strength of the signals.  
7.
Safety tests: Some products such as cars require destructive (crash) tests 
before they are certified as roadworthy. These tests can be done using 
computer and physical models. Some other products need to pass variety 
of stress tests before they are certified. 
Partial Checklist for a Racing Team Test 
TAYLOR'S RACING TEAM DESIGN TEST CHECKLIST
Chassis Tests (Digital) 
Pass/Fail 
Roll Protection Compliance Test
Pass 
Static Chassis Stress Test
Pass 
Turning G Stress Test 
Pass 
Torsional Rigidity Test
Pass
Frontal Impact Test 
Fail 
Software Testing of Torsional Rigidity for the Race Car Chassis  
Software Testing of Side Impact for the Race Car Chassis 
Software Testing of Front Impact for the Race Car Chassis 
Chapter 7 
Operate 
Operate /
p re t / v.
Manage, work, control; put or keep in functional order. 
Oxford Dictionary 
To complete the CDIO process, engineers need to ensure that whatever they 
have Conceived, Designed and Implemented is safely, effectively and 
sustainably Operated. They also need to ensure when the product or system
they have created reaches the end of its life, it can be retired with the least 
impact on the environment. 
7.1 
Sustainable and Safe Operations  
The Operation stage of the CDIO process can be the longest in the entire CDIO 
process. A bridge, for example, can take few years to construct but can remain
in Operation for centuries. Likewise an airplane or a car can remain in service
for decades. During the Operation stage, engineers need to ensure safety and
sustainability, both economically and environmentally.
7.2 Operations Management 
Depending on the complexity of the system, Operation management includes
installation, commissioning, testing, maintenance and daily operation. If the 
system is a petrochemical plant, commissioning and testing could take up to 
weeks or even months to ensure that all the parts of the plant are working
well and that all the safety equipment is functional in a variety of operational 
scenarios.  
7.3 
Training and Operations 
Whether you buy a new car, mobile phone, television set, software package
or furniture from IKEA, they all come with a user manual or user guide that
outlines the best way of using them and how to take care of them. In the case 
of IKEA furniture, the user guide shows how the furniture is assembled. For
more complex systems, manufacturers need to develop maintenance manuals 
and training materials for the service and maintenance staff. This includes a 
certification programme for the maintenance staff. Examples of highly
complex systems would include airplanes that are sold to airlines around the
world. Manufacturers of airplanes run training and certification programmes 
so that the technical staff operating and maintaining the planes are able to
perform their intended duties. 
7.4 
The Birth of the Checklist 
The Boeing Model 299 (later renamed B17 Flying Fortress) was one of the 
most impressive long-range bombers of its time. The plane had a wingspan 
of 32 m and a length of 23 m. Equipped with 4 engines; the plane was fast, 
had a great range and was able to carry a tremendous load. 
October 30, 1935 was the date chosen for the plane to be tested at the
Wright Air Field at Dayton Ohio by Boeing's chief test pilot, Leslie Tower, 
and Major Ployer Peter Hill, the air corps' chief of flight-testing. The plane
taxied down the runway and after reaching an elevation of around 100 m, the 
plane stalled and crashed into the ground killing both pilots. The air crash
investigation concluded that the cause of the crash was 'human error.' The 
B17's might came at a price, it was very complex to operate. Every one of its
four engines had its own indicators that needed to be monitored individually 
to maintain stable flight conditions, which required pilot intervention. Pilots 
also needed to monitor and attend to a large number flight conditions. While 
doing all this, the pilots forgot to release a newly introduced locking 
mechanism on the elevator and rudder controls. And this single mistake
doomed the plane. 
The army was so impressed with the design, that despite the tragic
accident, it wanted to buy the plane. The challenge was how to safely fly such 
an inherently complex four-engine plane? The solution that the
manufacturers came up with was both simple and innovative! First of all, no 
one suggested getting the pilots to undergo more training. The pilots who 
made the mistake were simply the best in business. Instead, the plane 
manufacturer engineered checklists for the pilots to consult and go through 
prior to flying the plane and at each critical flying stage. Believe it or not, prior 
to the B17 crash, pilots learned the systems of aircrafts and operated them
from memory! This was manageable when the list of things to remember 
hovered around half a dozen. However, when the list of things to remember 
and execute was too long, human memory is challenged and the pilots were
finding it easy to miss simple (but essential) steps. The checklist for the B-17 
is shown below.  
Official B17 Pilot's Checklist  
The Crashed Boeing Model 299 (Source: USAF National Museum) 
Today, every plane, no matter how small, features some kind of a 
checklist. Bigger planes have books worth of checklists to assist the pilots with 
various scenarios in every flight phase.
As a matter of fact, nowadays medical practice has taken the initiative to 
use checklists. Surgeons around the world are using checklists to ensure that 
they are operating on the right person, performing the correct procedure, and
making sure that various patient specific precautions has been taken into 
consideration. When I accompanied my wife in the operation theatre while 
she went through a surgery to give birth to our third son, I observed the 
surgeon calling for "time-out" before he made the incision. During this "timeout", the surgeon went through a checklist with his team to ensure that they 
are operating on the right patient and that all the necessary precautions in 
relation to my wife's condition were taken. The implementation of checklists 
in healthcare has now a proven record of improving the outcome of various
medical procedures. 
Whenever we operate a system, it is useful to create a checklist that will 
ensure that different users are able to safely and accurately operate the system. 
My students learnt this the hard way when they built a racing car and shipped 
it outstation to be raced. Relying on memory, they were confident that they 
packed everything they needed. They had multiple sets of spare parts, engine 
oil, and they even brought their own welding machine and generator just in 
case they need to repair the car. To our horror, we discovered that we had
forgotten to bring the fire extinguisher, which is required by the race 
regulations to be installed in the car. Luckily, the students managed to quickly
drive to a nearby town and purchase a new fire extinguisher. Learning from
this incident, my students now have a number of checklists to help them 
manage the main phases of operating a racing car.
With My New-born 
TRT Pre-departure Checklist (Partial) 
7.5 Preventive Maintenance 
The cost of system breakdown is often high, resulting in down time and
economical losses. If the system is an airplane, for example, a breakdown or 
a failure while airborne could end with catastrophic results. Preventive
maintenance is the scheduled services and/or replacement of different parts 
of the system well before their scheduled breakdown or failure. Preventive 
maintenance can result in smooth operation as well as economical savings 
through scheduling maintenance and service activities during the off-peak 
seasons and ensuring optimum operating conditions during the peak season. 
7.6 
System Improvement and Evolution 
Often complex systems such as dams, buildings, bridges, and airplanes are 
designed and implemented keeping in mind the possibility of future
evolution and improvement. For example, there is always a possibility of
upgrading the engines of the airplanes or the addition of new control 
equipment for a dam to make them more efficient. Infrastructure systems, 
such as sewage and road systems require continuous improvement and
evolution to deal with the changing requirements and volume of use. 
7.7 End-of-Life Issues 
Many products and systems have in them materials that are toxic, harmful to 
human health and the environment, and even precious materials.  It is 
necessary to plan what will happen to these materials when the product or 
system is no longer in use. This planning needs to take place during the 
Conceiving and Designing stages. The use of hazardous and difficult to
recycle materials should be reduced to mitigate end-of-life issues. 
7.8 CDIO Case Studies 
The School of Engineering at Taylor's University adopts the CDIO framework 
as an educational philosophy. Starting from the first semester of their studies, 
students work in groups on major projects to Conceive, Design, Implement 
and Operate engineering systems. The CDIO process and the project-based
learning are aimed at empowering the students to pursue their life's purpose 
and achieve their full potential while working on projects that are challenging,
interesting and meaningful. Throughout the years, students and lecturers 
worked together on a variety of projects. We succeeded at times and failed at 
others, but there was always valuable learning and discovery. Often the most 
valuable discovery is learning more about one's own self and one's potential. 
This elucidates the point that the CDIO process, when implemented 
effectively, can provide the backdrop against which human development and 
empowerment can be realised. Below are some of the stories of the CDIO in 
action. 
7.8.1 
Taylor's Racing Team 
Taylor's Racing Team is comprised of students from different levels (year 1
to year 4) and different engineering disciplines, namely chemical, electrical 
and mechanical engineering. The team designs, builds, and races cars at the
national and international student races. The spark of the team started in 2010 
when a group of first year students wanted to build a car and race it at the 
Formula Varsity national race in Malaysia. Back then it sounded like an
impossible dream, as the team neither had the experience to build cars nor 
the money to buy all the parts. The team made history by winning the race 
beating teams from other universities who dominated the race for years. 
Taylor's Racing Team in 2010 
First the team needed to get someone to sponsor them, after trying more
than 100 companies, Red Bull said "yes!" and became the main sponsor. With 
the money secured, the students built a car and shipped it to the racing track 
in Melaka, a city 150 km south of our university. The race took place over a 
weekend and the team performed very well in all the pre-race tests such as 
the breaking and acceleration tests. During the qualifying race, however, the 
driver pushed the car over its limit and blew up the engine! Faced with the
potential of leaving the race, the team decided to remove the engine, drive 
back to the university and overhaul the engine overnight then drive back to 
Melaka to install the engine and get the car ready by next morning just in time 
for the race. Because the team was unable to complete the qualifying race, the 
car started in the 13th place on the grid. One by one, we watched our racing
car overtaking the competitors and end up being the Grand Prize winner of
the race. This was one of the really amazing moments for all of us. 
The damaged engine block 
Taylor's Racing Team Crossing the Finish Line at Formula Varsity Race 2010 
"I always liked cars, as a matter of fact that was one of the reasons why 
I joined mechanical engineering," Sunny Lee, the team leader said. "However, 
I never imagined that my CDIO journey would take me places with Taylor's
Racing Team," he added. Now a postgraduate student pursuing his Master's 
degree, Sunny credits many of his successes to applying the CDIO process. 
He told me that sometimes the CDIO process might sound a bit tedious and
slow as the students always have the tendency to rush into the
Implementation and Operation stages, "however almost always when we 
rush through the Conceive and Design stages, something happens and we
regret it later. For example, in 2012, we were racing in a national race, we
ignored the design of our cooling system and simply attached a duct to direct 
the air into the engine. Worse still, we fixed the duct with simple duct tape! 
Our car was in the first place and during the 23rd lap, when we noticed some 
smoke coming out of the exhaust. Shortly after that, the car just stopped and 
we were out of the race." Sunny said. It turned out that the vibration 
experienced by the air duct was so severe that it caused the duct tape to 
disintegrate leaving the engine to be "fried" without any air to cool it down. 
Imperica's Engine Cooling Ducts 
On a more personal level, Sunny attributes the development of his 
organisational and communication skills to the projects he did while with the
Taylor's Racing Team. Being educated in Chinese schools before the tertiary
level, Sunny's English was limited when he first joined the university.
Working in diverse teams provided him the opportunity and the motivation 
to speak and write using better English. Recently, he received the Best 
Student Award from the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (UK) and I was 
delighted to see him delivering an eloquent speech, crediting his lecturers, 
peers and the CDIO process! 
Sunny Lee
Mike Ooi, another Taylor's Racing Team member, identified the ability 
to manage conflict as one of his major areas of growth that took place during 
his work with the racing team. "As an Asian student, I grew up in a culture
that has always ignored and avoided conflict. Needless to say, ignoring the 
conflict does not make it magically disappear!" Mike said. "Being a part of
Taylor's Racing Team taught me to speak out and accept that, when working 
on a complex project with many people of different personalities and 
backgrounds, conflict is inevitable. While learning the CDIO process we were 
exposed to techniques that helped me deal with conflict effectively" he added. 
Mike Ooi
Justin Moo is the current team leader and driver of the Taylor's Racing
Team. He asserted that being a part of Taylor's Racing Team is one of the 
highlights of his student life. "We have the legacy of the achievement of our 
seniors to build on and protect," he said. "Although being part of the racing 
team is very demanding as we are expected to juggle our academic deadlines 
as well as those of the races, I am proud to say that everyone on the racing 
team is doing exceptionally well academically with four of us on the Dean's 
List!" He added proudly.
Justin Moo
Maitha (from Oman), Mayko (from Myanmar) and Andrea Kraal (from
Malaysia) are our racing ladies. Being a part of the racing team they proved
that engineering is for everybody. "The only drawback is that I am not able
to colour my finger nails since I joined the team" Maitha jokingly told me. In
general our female students are in agreement that studying in a CDIO 
environment is preparing them well for their future careers. 
The Ladies in Action
Taylor's Racing Team is still thriving with many students aspiring to join
it. The students have built three cars thus far and they continue to improve 
their technology, raise funds, and most importantly grow and develop while 
evolving their leadership styles. The team website is: 
www.taylorsracingteam.com 
Taylor's Racing Team in 2014 
7.8.2 Women in Engineering
A lot has been said about the lack of women engineering. This subject has 
been studied from academic, cultural as well as corporate angles. Still, we do 
not have enough women who are choosing engineering as a field of study 
and choosing to pursue careers as engineers. Personally, I feel that most of
the reasons outlined in the literature to explain why women are not 
sufficiently represented in engineering, such as gender pay disparity, the 
hectic life style and the perceived lack of career advancement are simply not 
unique to engineering. One aspect I believe that we can address in
engineering education is the cultural dimension by helping the creation of 
more female engineers as successful role models. 
In 2011 Leena Gade became the first female race engineer to win the
world's greatest sports car race, the Le Mans 24 Hours. She repeated the feat 
again in 2012 as part of the Audi Sport Team and was named the FIA World
Endurance Championship's "Man of the Year". Leena has a degree in 
Aerospace Engineering from the University of Manchester. We definitely 
need more engineers like Leena so that we can break the stereotype that 
successful engineers are only males. Showing that engineering can be a highly
fulfilling and exciting career option for female students can go a long way in
encouraging more of them to take the science and engineering route. 
Leena Gade (Source: Huffington Post) 
In preparation for this section of the book, I interviewed Yvonne Lim, 
our top engineering graduate in 2013. She chose to study engineering because
she wanted something academically challenging. "I never expected the days
and nights worth of projects coming my way. My experience with projectbased learning has been a love-hate relationship from the very beginning." 
Yvonne added. 
She went on saying "being one who is blessed academically, projects 
have been a step out of the comfort zone for me. Unlike exam-based 
assessments where I have full control over the grades that I can achieve, 
project-based learning stretched me in ways that I never thought possible.
Each semester brought about a new project, new experiences and new
challenges.  
"Whether it was from the project itself or while working with people, 
I've never had a challenge-free project. There were times when I had thought
I'd be better off without projects. However, I don't regret being through a 
project-based learning program."
Yvonne said that CDIO helped her as a female student to find her 
bearings in the engineering world. She felt that the fact, in a CDIO 
environment, she was able to use the tools and machineries in the workshop, 
broke some of the barriers in her mind. 
"I have learned so much working on projects, from the first project in my 
very first semester to the capstone project in Year 3 and then the final year 
project. Projects taught me not only about the theoretical knowledge required 
by engineers, but also working in teams, managing conflicts, presenting in 
front of an audience, and most of all working with a deadline. It has also
brought me to do things and brought me to places where I had never 
imagined myself at that point of time. Although projects-based learning came
with a lot of stress and sleepless nights, in the long run it has truly been a 
blessing in disguise. The experiences I have gained, the lessons I have learned, 
the people I have met and the life-long friends I have made along the way are 
priceless." She added.  
Yvonne is currently doing her PhD in Engineering exploring new ways 
to store energy as liquid air.  
Yvonne with her classmate, Ralina at an engineering conference at MIT
7.8.3 
CDIO Beyond Engineering 
Christopher Chew is one of my most memorable students. Slim, softspoken and with a nice smile always on his face, Chris is a very confident and 
reliable young man. Describing himself, Chris said "Growing up in my family
was such a bliss, with my parents giving me everything I wanted. Essentially 
I became a spoilt brat, throwing tantrums when the slightest things don't go 
according to how I wanted. When I joined engineering, I still had a little spoilt 
brat in me, always feeling entitled. I learnt two major lessons in maturity, the 
first, you have to work hard to get what you deserve and the second, you 
need to have an open mind. Both these lessons were taught to me by four
"magical" letters; CDIO. 
"Naturally, I'm a stubborn person, always thinking I'm right and my 
methods are the only way to get things done. When I first did engineering
projects, I would always jump towards the end, the product, without ever 
thinking through the process. In my second year, there was an instance
whereby my project was delayed and there was insufficient time left to 
complete it; that was when I took a leap of faith and applied CDIO from start
to finish and I was glad to say that it was a success. This was also my second
lesson, to get great results one cannot cut corners and take shortcuts. Thinking 
I was smart enough to skip the C-D process and jump straight to I-O was my 
downfall on a couple of occasions. 
Upon graduation with a Bachelor Degree in Chemical Engineering, 
Chris opted not to practice engineering and he currently works for Accenture 
as a technology consultant. He landed this job after a week-long interview 
process where he competed with other graduates with degrees in business 
and management. As he consults for some of the biggest companies in the
world, he still utilises the CDIO framework to unlock and deliver value.
"Now that I'm a CDIO convert, I subconsciously have this systematic thinking
in my mind that helps me in everything I do. For example, even when I'm 
organising an event, I would go through the CDIO process, albeit in a 
modified for the situation. In an event management environment, I first start
off by getting an idea and start to envision the event; that would be the 'C'
stage. Then I'll move on to planning, the 'D'. And just before execution, the 
'O', I would always set out running sheets or task lists, the 'I'. This form of 
structured thinking has definitely helped particularly in the areas of time 
management and goal achievement. Needless to say, I've greatly benefited 
from applying CDIO and I am now a strong advocate for it." Chris added.
Christopher Chew  
Chapter 8 
Ergonomics: Human-Centred Design 
"Human-centred design (is) meeting people where they are and really 
taking their needs and feedback into account. When you let people 
participate in the design process, you find that they often have ingenious 
ideas about what would really help them. And it's not a onetime thing; 
it's an iterative process." 
Melinda Gates, Gates Foundation
"Others approach a challenge from the point of view that says, 'We have 
the smartest people in the world; therefore, we can think this through.' 
We approach it from the point of view that the answer is out there, hidden 
in plain sight, so let's go observe human behaviour and see where the 
opportunities are." 
David Kelly, IDEO
"Human-Centred Design helps us identify unvoiced needs. It helps us 
identify that friction between the user and the world and the way that the 
user's way of thinking, their mental model doesn't match up at all with 
the way that the product or experience or software looks like and help 
reveal those unmet needs."
Mickey McManus, MAYA
Human-Centred Design (HCD) refers to the design process that is informed 
by human biology and psychology and is aimed at creating systems, products, 
experiences and processes that are not only easy and safe to use but also 
create a remarkable and enriching experience for the users. The realm of 
human-centred design extends from everyday objects such as stoves and cars
to control rooms in nuclear plants or airplane cockpits.  
8.1 
Design for Ease of Use and Operation 
Don Norman, in his book 'Design of Everyday Things,' talks about the 
concepts of "knowledge in the head" and "knowledge in the world." 
Knowledge in the head refers to the amount of learning that we need to have
in our heads prior to being able to operate a given product or system. Norman 
argues that a good design can result in products and systems that are intuitive 
and easy to use by making the knowledge needed to operate these products 
or systems easily available in them and their surroundings - knowledge in the 
world. We do not need to learn anything about a well-designed door, for 
example, before being able open it! The knob affords turning and turning the 
door will result in opening it. However, we all can recall examples of poorly
designed doors that we need to "learn" how to use! They include doors that
have handles that afford pushing and pulling while they are sliding doors 
and which are supposed to slide sideways. People often end up putting many
signs on the door to help the user learn how to use them. Although it is easy 
to take good design for granted, with so many poorly designed products
around us it is clear that the human-centred design process is not automatic 
but requires meticulous and intentional planning. 
A Door That Affords Pushing/Pulling but its Operation Require Sliding 
8.1.1 
Affordance, Visibility and Feedback
As mentioned earlier, affordance is a property of objects, environments and
media that refers to what they can "afford" or what can be done with them.
This is an important design concept when developing systems, products, and 
services that are easy to use. For example, a doorknob affords twisting, a slot 
affords inserting, a button affords pushing, a board affords writing on and an
Internet hyperlink affords clicking. When the affordance and function are 
aligned, we generally have good designs. As a rule of thumb, whenever you
see the sign "Do not ......." You can expect some failure of alignment between 
affordance and function. Try to recall the time when you have seen a sign 
proclaiming "Do not sit!" Often this is related to an object that you can sit on, 
the object is almost inviting you to sit on it; however, the object may be a box
that is too frail and can collapse under your weight. Other examples include,
"Do not push!", "Do not pull!", and "Do not write!" 
Good designs have a clear link between their affordances and functions. 
A door handle may afford both pushing and pulling, while the door function
"opening" may be achieved through only pulling or pushing. This represents 
a disconnect between the object's affordance and its function, and thus 
represents an area for improvement of the design. During the design process, 
the connections between affordances and functions need to be fully explored 
to ensure the development of user-friendly objects that can be operated 
conveniently and with minimum learning or instructions.  
An object should advertise its affordance(s), making them visible and
inviting the user to perform the right operation in order to safely and correctly 
deliver the object's function. Affordance can also invite unexpected functions 
and operations as well. My office has floor-to-ceiling glass panes, besides 
serving as walls, these glass panes afford being written on, and I immediately 
used them as writing boards. They served the purpose very well apart from
the occasional "loss of data" if our diligent cleaners insist on cleaning my wall.
Because flat surfaces "afford" being written on, this at times leads to graffiti 
and vandalism. Hence if you really do not want people to write on a surface, 
design that surface in a way that the affordance is less obvious or less inviting.
To close the functionality loop, it is often useful if the product gives
feedback after the user performs an operation. If we turn on the iron, for
example, a red light is turned on indicating that the operation was successful. 
The feedback can be delivered through visual cues, sound or smell. The 
feedback can be designed to indicate unsafe operation as well. Most cars are 
fitted with reverse sensors, as we reverse the car, the sensor gives an audible
signal that increases in pitch or frequency as the car gets closer to an obstacle 
behind it. An example of using smells for feedback is the addition of foulsmelling chemical to liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) used in many households
for cooking purposes, to indicate if there is a leak. LPG is odourless and
without the additive, a leakage can result in nasty accidents. 
I shall give a few more examples from my own personal experience. I do
not know about you, but whenever in a restaurant, I am not sure which 
shaker contains the salt and which one contains the pepper (I know it has to 
do with the number of holes on the top of the shaker, but I could never figure 
out which is which). I saw some shakers that have the words salt and pepper 
written respectively on them. A clever solution I saw were shakers with holes 
on the cover in the pattern of S or P indicating salt and pepper respectively. 
Every day when I park my car at the car park at work, I take my bag and
lock the car using the button on my key. When the car is locked, it gives a 
visual feedback, its lights turn on and off three times. However, often after 
walking to my office, I ask myself "did I lock the car?" It would have been 
really useful if the car key is able to give feedback indicating whether my car
is locked or not.  
A Concept of a Car Key with Additional Feature Showing Whether the Car is 
Locked or Not 
Often after ironing our clothes, changing, and leaving home, my wife
and I ask each other this question "did you turn off the iron?" In the absence 
of a confident answer, we often decide to drive back to check. We once forgot
that we left the iron on and left home. The iron burned the ironing board and
we were lucky that we did not have a major fire. It would have been very 
useful if we could get feedback on the state of our iron (on or off) through a 
mobile app for example. It would be even better if the iron is designed so that 
it turns itself off if there is no activity associated with it for 2 minutes. This 
will be discussed further in the following section.
8.1.2 Constraints 
We are surrounded by thousands of systems, products and services that we 
need to use on a daily basis. These range from phones and microwave ovens
to cars and ATM machines, and there are many ways to operate these 
products and services incorrectly; hence instructions are often given to the 
users to enable them to correctly and safely use these products, services and
systems. Using constraints refers to designing the product or service in such
a way that makes the wrong or unsafe use highly unlikely or even impossible.
For example, if batteries are needed to operate an electronic product and the
batteries need to be inserted in a certain way, many products have + and - 
signs indicating where the positive and negative ends of the batteries should 
be inserted. A better design will be to make it impossible for the batteries to
be inserted incorrectly or improve the electronic design so that the device will 
work regardless of the direction of the batteries. 
The first ATM machines used to be operated in the following sequence: 
1.
Insert the card in the ATM 
2.
Key in the PIN and details of the transaction 
3.
Take the money 
4.
Retrieve the card 
However, many users started to leave the ATM machine right after 
getting the money, resulting in many cases of card loss which overwhelmed
the banks. Now all the ATMs around the world are designed with a constraint 
that forces the customer to retrieve the card before being able to take the 
money.  
Whenever the user is about to perform an irreversible operation, it is 
very useful to issue a reminder before allowing the action to take place. If we 
are about to delete a file permanently, computers nowadays ask us to confirm 
that this is indeed the required task.  
Sometimes the constraints are purposely used to restrict an action by the
user. I was faced with this when I tried to close my Facebook account. I was 
looking for an icon or a link that is denoted with "quit" or "close account." 
To my surprise the process was very obscure and non-intuitive. I concluded
that Facebook made it purposefully difficult for its subscribers to quit. 
8.1.3 Mapping
Mapping is another way of putting knowledge in the world (rather than the 
head). It represents a mental model that signifies the causal relationship 
between actions and their results. This concept is useful when designing 
control panels and switches. When I teach in our bigger lecture theatres, I 
sometimes need to turn off the lights at the screen's section if I am playing a 
video. I often end up with a trial and error process, turning off the lights at 
the wrong section of the lecture theatre before reaching the switches for the 
right lights. This situation can be improved if the switches were clearly
mapped representing their actual position in the lecture theatre. The same can
be said when designing the control panels for a power plant, a chemical 
process plant, a nuclear plant or a cockpit of an airplane.  
A coffee machine at our office has a number of buttons that can be 
pushed to get different types of coffee, milk and steam. It has three different
nozzles to dispense the different types of drinks. The challenge is that the 
buttons are not mapped to the corresponding nozzles and it is rather easy to
place the cup under the wrong nozzle. One of the office staff created 
additional instructions to accompany the coffee machine to show people how
to operate it. When this did not work, the staff created additional labels and
stuck them on the machine denoting different actions. The coffee sure tastes 
great, but only if you can operate the machine. It would have been much
easier if the buttons to produce a certain type of coffee are located next to the
nozzle that dispenses it! 
Can we better map this coffee machine? 
The image below shows another electrical feature at our university. It 
represents three power plugs imbedded in the table in a meeting room. It 
would have been much easier to use if the button was located next to the 
corresponding socket. Are there any other ways to better map the electrical 
sockets below? 
Poorly Mapped Electric Sockets
8.2 Anthropometric Measurements 
Anthropometry refers to the measurement of individuals. It involves 
identifying standard measurements and variations of the human body such 
as height, weight and different body proportions. Anthropometry is essential 
in the design of clothes, cars, doors and many other products that people use. 
Anthropometry also looks into the variance in measurement among 
different ethnic groups. A two-year study conducted by the Indian Council 
of Medical Research measured the penises of over 1,200 volunteers from 
different parts of India and concluded that about 60% of the volunteers have 
penises which are between three and five centimetres shorter than 
international standards used in condom manufacturing. India has one of the 
highest number of HIV infections in the world. To curb the spread of sexually
transmitted diseases, the government distributed free condoms. However, 
many men were reluctant to use these free condoms. Baffled by this 
behaviour, the government commissioned the study mentioned earlier to 
understand it. The verdict is that because of the large sizes of the condoms, 
the men were embarrassed to use them. Once understood, this was easily
fixed by the condom manufacturers making condoms with sizes that suited 
the addressed population.   
8.3 
Work Musculo-Skeletal Disorders (WMSDs)
Work Musculo-Skeletal Disorders refer to the group of painful disorders that 
are caused by injuries to muscles, nerves and tendons. These disorders 
normally result from repetitive motions and strains, as well as poor body
postures while performing work-related activities or from using a certain 
product for prolonged periods. 
Besides individual suffering, WMSDs come at a considerable cost to the 
healthcare system, not to mention the productivity loss. To prevent WMSDs, 
it is essential that work tasks, tools and equipment, and work spaces be
designed ergonomically in a way that reduces the strains on different parts of 
the body. 
8.4 Cognitive Ergonomics 
Cognitive ergonomics is related to mental processes such as thinking, 
perception, and memory and how they impact the interaction of humans with 
different parts of a product or system. This can be useful in designing 
effective human-machine interfaces and human-computer interfaces and 
training programmes, as well as effective policies and marketing
programmes. 
8.4.1 Nudges
When governmental agencies and employers are interested in encouraging 
employees to save a portion of their salaries, research showed that it is much
more effective to give the employees a form that asks them to opt out of the 
saving programme if they are not interested, rather than opting in if they are 
interested. This exploits a human thinking feature that is not keen on 
changing what is established. This is also the reason why when you fill in an 
online form, the form will often ask to tick a box if you do NOT want to
receive regular promotional emails. 
A Screenshot Showing a Website Asking Users to "tick if you do not want to 
receive more information" 
Similar nudges are now being suggested to encourage organ donation.
The suggested programme puts all the citizens, automatically, on the list of 
organ donors and gives all of them the opportunity to opt out of the 
programme by completing a simple form. Research suggests that only few of 
the citizens will opt out. Such a programme is expected to be much more 
effective than a programme that simply asks people to join the donor list. 
8.4.2 Framing
Prospect theory, for which Daniel Kahneman received the Nobel Prize, 
indicates that, from a human thinking point of view, a loss is more significant 
than an equivalent gain. Meaning to say that the pain of losing 1000 Dollars
is bigger than the joy of gaining the same amount. We have the tendency to 
be risk averse when faced with a positive frame, while seeking risks when a 
negative frame is presented. So if we want people to choose a certain 
alternative, it is more effective to present the option as helping them to avoid 
a loss rather than to achieve gain.
Speaking to two groups of healthcare professionals and policy makers, 
Daniel Kahneman presented them with the following scenarios: 
Group 1: Positive Framing 
You are faced with a situation where 600 patients are infected by a deadly 
virus. There are two treatments available, A and B. Which one would you 
choose?
A.
A treatment that will save 200 lives. 
B.
A treatment with 33% chance of saving all 600 people, 66% 
possibility of saving none. 
Group 2: Negative Framing 
You are faced with a situation where 600 patients are infected by a deadly 
virus. There are two treatments available A and B. Which one would you 
choose?
A.
A treatment in which 400 people will die. 
B.
A treatment with 33% chance that no one will die, 66% probability 
that all 600 will die.
Treatments A and B presented to both groups are essentially identical. 
However treatment A was chosen by 72% of the respondent of group 1 (when 
it was positively framed in terms of saving 200 lives), compared to only 22% 
of the respondents for group 2 when it was negatively framed in terms of the
400 people who will die.
This knowledge is useful when designing policies and systems when we
would like a certain behaviour to occur. If you wish to encourage the students 
to submit their work on time, which technique will be more effective in 
convincing more students to do so, giving those who hand in their work in 
time a bonus of 5 extra marks or imposing a penalty of deducting 5 marks for 
late submission? Test the validity of your answer by asking a group of 
students how they would respond. 
8.4.3 Anchoring
This cognitive bias refers to the effect of initial, sometimes arbitrary, 
information on decision-making. In an experiment that was repeated around
the world, the audience were shown an arbitrary number, say either 20 or 180, 
and asked a question "how many countries are there in the world?" Those 
who were shown the smaller number, 20, gave on average a smaller answer
compared to those who were shown the number 180. The initial number 
seems to have an impact on how we judge future quantities and hence it is 
called the "anchor." 
This has implications in a variety of scenarios. For example, the "original"
price of an item on sale is a very important anchor to make the sale price look
more attractive. 
Chapter 9 
Communication and Teamwork 
"Talent wins games, but teamwork and intelligence win championships." 
Michael Jordan
"A man's character may be learned from the adjectives which he
habitually uses in conversation." 
Mark Twain
In order to successfully and effectively Conceive, Design, Implement and 
Operate products, systems, and solutions, engineers often need to work in
multidisciplinary teams. Effective communication skills and teamwork are
essential for success in work and in life at large. This chapter will outline a 
number of communication and teamwork skills, techniques and strategies. 
9.1 Communication Strategies 
Every day, from the moment we wake up to the moment we go to sleep, we
are continuously communicating. Even if we do not notice, the advertisement
on billboards as we go to work or school and the websites that we visit, are 
always trying to communicate their messages to us. Companies want us to 
buy their products and they try to communicate why we need these products
and how they are superior to others. We communicate with our team 
members, friends, parents, and children seeking their cooperation and
understanding. One way or another, the purpose of communication is to 
communicate messages and change behaviour. Salespeople want to 
communicate how superior their products are (message) and want their 
customers to buy those products (behaviour); teachers want to communicate 
knowledge (message) and want their students to learn (behaviour); and 
politicians want to communicate their political views and policies (message) 
and want the citizens to vote for them (behaviour). In this context, it is fair to
say that successful communication is when the right message is 
communicated to the right audience and it stays in their mind to create the 
desired behaviour. 
Communication can be verbal or non-verbal. In the book titled 'The 
Tipping Point', Malcolm Gladwell explored a number of ideas that "stuck" 
and became phenomena that were talked about, shared, and eventually
changed history. Inspired by Gladwell's book, Chip and Dan Heath wrote 
their book 'Made to Stick' and identified the features that an idea or a 
communicated message has in order for it to stick and result in a change of
behaviour of the receiver. 'Made to Stick' utilises a framework that uses the
acronym SUCCES, which stands for Simple, Unexpected, Concrete, Credible,
Emotional and Stories. I added another S, Simulation and I shall describe the 
SUCCESS framework in this section. 
Simple 
We will always remember a simple message better than a complex one. The 
interesting thing is that, often simple is more difficult to achieve than complex. 
To simplify anything, one must be very well versed with all of its aspects. 
Apple products, for example, are known to be simple and easy to use; this 
simplicity is the outcome of the labour of many designers and engineers who 
worked tirelessly to fully comprehend how will the products to be used, and
designed them for a memorable user experience. In short, simple is not easy. 
One of Picasso's paintings, the Bull, illustrates this concept well. Picasso drew 
11 paintings of a bull starting with a life-like drawing of the bull and 
progressively removing parts of it in a quest to reach the essence of the bull. 
The eleventh painting uses only few lines to represent the bull. It is simple 
but Picasso reached this simplicity through his mastery of the complex. 
If you have an idea, a message or a concept that you wish to
communicate, you will need first to really comprehend its essence. This 
essence can be the basis of your communication strategy. You will need to be 
able to explain your concept with as few words as possible, stripping any part 
that is not core for the message. Simple messages are compact and profound
while conveying the core essence of what needs to be communicated. 
Picasso's "The Bull". (Source: takeovertime.co) 
Unexpected
We explored the role the old brain plays in responding to what is perceived 
as a threat. This part of the brain is wired to make us quickly react to 
situations that are out of the ordinary, and it is responsible for the fight or
flight reaction. That is why shocking, surprising, and unexpected events or
information seize our attention more than expected ones. If you go for a 
lecture on your first day of university and your Thermodynamics lecturer
arrives in blue suit and a black tie, this will not be remarkable, but if he
instead arrives in a clown outfit, I bet you will never forget this event even 
after a long time! Always look for an unexpected angle to pitch or deliver
your message. The unexpectedness can be achieved through how the 
message is crafted, the medium used to deliver it, or who delivers it. 
Blendtec is a company that makes blenders, and in order to advertise
how strong their blenders are, they made a series of videos showing their
blenders in action. They did not demonstrate their blenders mixing fruits and 
vegetables; instead they did something highly unexpected. They filmed their
blenders mixing everything from golf balls to iPhones. These videos are 
called "Will it blend?" I watched the "blending" of an iPhone 5S and 4 iPhone
5Cs (the full colour range) and the blender turned them into dust! This video 
has over 2 million views on YouTube. Will it Blend videos are also available 
at http://www.willitblend.com. This sure had an impact on me as I am planning 
to buy one of these blenders. 
When my school wanted to put a newspaper advertisement to promote
engineering as a career option, we looked for an unexpected angle to pitch 
that. While a typical advertisement promoting engineering may talk about 
the role of engineers in building different technological gadgets, we used the 
fact that 33% of CEOs of the world's top 500 companies have an engineering 
degree as the main point of the ad. According to the Business Insider, only 
11% of these CEOs have a first degree in Business Administration. Many
people find this to be unexpected and rather amazing. When the
advertisement appeared in a local paper it had a very good impact on our 
intended audience and many parents and students had a reinforced view that
engineering is a flexible and interesting career pathway. 
Credible 
In order for the message to be effectively communicated and achieve its 
intended impact, it needs to be credible. This means that the new brain needs 
to believe it. If Blendtec wants to prove that their blenders are strong, running 
an advertisement of them blending iPhones is not only remarkably 
unexpected but also credible. There are a number of ways to lend credibility 
to a given message. In our engineering advertisement mentioned earlier, it 
was necessary that we referenced the Business Insider newspaper as the party 
that performed the research which showed that 33% of the CEOs of world's
top 500 companies are engineers. This was an independent study that the 
public has access to and can check out for themselves. Endorsements by users 
or professionals can lend credibility to some products. Toothpaste companies 
for example, enlist the help of dentists to endorse their products. 
Barry Marshal is an Australian scientist who had a revolutionary idea.
While the medical community believed that stomach ulcers are caused by 
stress and a spicy food diet with basically no cure, Dr Marshal had a different 
idea. He believed that the ulcer is caused by bacteria and are treatable by 
antibiotics. The prevailing wisdom was that the stomach was too acidic for 
any bacteria to live in it. Faced with a community that did not believe him, he
did the ultimate, he infected himself with the bacteria, resulting in an ulcer in
his stomach! After the disease was diagnosed, Dr Marshal treated his ulcer 
with antibiotics. This discovery had a huge impact on hundreds of thousands 
of people who have stomach ulcers and eventually earned Barry Marshal the 
Nobel Prize. 
Concrete 
It is easier to comprehend concrete concepts as compared abstract ones. This 
is particularly true when dealing with technological terminology. For 
example, if you are contemplating buying an iPhone, you will know that the 
32GB option will have double the capacity of the 16GB. But do you really 
know how much is 16GB? Imagine communicating the capacity of the phone 
by how many photos or songs it can store or how many hours of video it can
accommodate. Everyone can relate to the photos, songs, and videos because 
they represent concrete concepts. 
Successful marketing campaigns and communication strategies need to 
differentiate their claims from those of the competitors in a concrete manner 
in order for them to be effective. So if the product or service that you are 
promoting is better, bigger, cheaper, faster or more effective than the 
competition, your message needs to deliver this in a clear and
comprehensible manner. For example, if you want people to donate to charity 
and your message is intended to say that even a little bit can help vaccinate 
children in poor countries, the message can be "for the price of a cup of coffee, 
we can vaccinate 1 child against polio." Comparing the cost of polio vaccine
to the price of something ubiquitous in our everyday life, such as coffee, 
makes the impact of a donation very clear and can lead to more people willing 
to donate. If the message is delivered through a visual medium, a picture of
a cup of coffee next to a healthy vaccinated child can be very helpful as well. 
Emotional 
Earlier in the book we mentioned that emotions are processed in the middle
brain. The relationship between emotions and decision-making was also 
examined. With this in mind, it is clear that messages that have a healthy dose 
of emotions in them will have a better chance of being remembered and
changing one's behaviour. Research has shown that when we receive a 
message, we are most likely to remember and respond if this message was 
delivered emotionally. That is why organisations that are fighting a certain
disease among children, put pictures of children on their marketing materials 
when they ask you for donations. 
The trick is, when you develop a communication strategy to sell a 
product, service or idea, you need to communicate how the audience will feel 
when they buy your product, use your service or adopt your idea. So if the 
product is a phone, do not only mention the features, instead focus also on
what the user will do with the phone, this would include pictures showing 
the users connecting with their loved ones, reaching their destinations safely
(GPS feature) and having fun with friends (entertainment apps). 
Stories
We all enjoy a good story. We liked it when we were kids and we continue to 
like it as adults. A good story represents a better way to remember and it is
always nice to share. If you are running a tuition centre, a success story about
an average student who managed to join an engineering course after taking 
math and physics classes at your centre is a good way to say that you provide
quality service. The message can be even more credible if it is told by the
student herself. 
When telling a story, or delivering a presentation, you need to pay 
special attention to how you start and how you end your presentation or your
story. Our brains seem to pay special attention to the beginnings and ends of
stories and presentations. This is probably the reason why most of the stories 
that our parents told us as children began with "Once upon a time...." and 
ended with "....... and they live happily ever after." If you try to recall the last 
movie you watched, there is a good chance that you remember its beginning
and end in more detail in comparison to the rest of the movie. Hollywood 
understands that and directors pay special attention to making the 
beginnings and ends of their movies more sensational. 
Next time you are delivering a presentation, promoting an idea, a 
product or a service, you may want to begin your "show" with outlining the
pain your audience is experiencing (and hopefully your product, service or 
idea can help alleviate it). You can use combinations of simple, unexpected, 
credible, concrete and/or emotional facts, data, and pictures to drive home
the message. This beginning has to be short and direct so that it stays with
those listening to you. The body of your presentation can discuss different
features, aspects and capabilities of your idea, product or service. In 
concluding your presentation, you may again use a combination of simple,
unexpected, credible, concrete and/or emotional messages outlining how 
your audience would feel after adopting your idea, product or service. This
way, you will make sure that your core messages are fresh and present when 
your customers make their decision. 
Simulation 
Simulation is a powerful tool to put the audience of a communicated message 
in a receptive frame of mind. Whenever possible, it is useful to get the 
intended users to try the product, service, or idea being promoted. Producers 
give free samples of their products to allow consumers to experience them. 
Subscription-based services such as magazines or satellite channels can give
free subscription for a period of time to allow the customers to experience the 
service. Nowadays, most of the apps have free versions that allow the users 
to try the app before committing to purchase the full version. The Apple 
Store's Communication for Success is a very good example for this concept, 
where customers are encouraged to play around with the products. 
Armed with the above SUCCESS framework you will be able to structure 
your communication strategies to achieve the desired objectives. The 
framework will definitely be useful if you are giving a presentation,
designing a poster or billboard advertisement, directing a documentary or
producing a product catalogue. Because oral presentation (accompanied by 
PowerPoint or Keynote slides) is one of the most common forms of
communication nowadays, we shall discuss effective presentation skills here. 
While you are structuring your presentation, you need to remember the 
SUCCESS framework and apply it. To do this, the following steps will be 
useful:
1.
Clearly identify the objective of your presentation (message) and ask 
yourself what you wish the audience to do after listening to you 
(behaviour). If you are seeking approval for a project for example,
how will your presentation provide the decision maker with the 
information necessary to grant the approval?
2.
Understand your message fully and use this understanding to distil 
the essence of the message and remove any non-core parts of the
message. This will make it Simple. 
3.
Your slides need to be simple as well. To make the slides simple, keep
the slides' background white or off-white, use as few words as you 
can and use pictures whenever possible.
4.
 If appropriate, use some relevant yet Unexpected facts in your
presentation. Messages like "33% of the CEOs of world's top 500 
companies are engineers" fits the bill very well. 
5.
Make sure that the message you are presenting is both Credible and
Concrete. You can do that by referencing some research done either
by you or by someone who is considered an authority in the field. 
6.
 To speak to the Emotions of your audience, tell them how good
approving your proposal or purchasing your product will make 
them feel. Remember, it is about them not about you. 
7.
A good story will always help. 
8.
If you can get the audience to Simulate the experience of using your
product or service, just do it! This can be done if you bring along a 
sample of your product or your previous work. 
9.
Remember to establish eye contact and to speak clearly. Never read 
from your slides.   
9.2 Process Documentation 
It is necessary to document the progress of the CDIO process, including and 
especially the failures. This is necessary to ensure that learning is taking place, 
as well as to enable continual quality improvement. The documentation 
represents a legal necessity as well. Good documentation can play a key role 
in establishing intellectual property in the case of a patent dispute. In this 
section, we shall explore three main documentation methods, namely the 
logbook, minutes of meetings, and technical reports; along with tips on emails and the use of operation manuals.
9.2.1 Logbooks
A logbook is a book that a team member keeps to document the progress of
the project being worked on. People keep logbooks to document the progress 
of their postgraduate projects, technical projects and business projects. For 
the logbook to preserve its legal relevance in case of future dispute, the
following are necessary: 
1.
The logbook should consist of pre-numbered pages that are not easily 
torn off. 
2.
All entries should be dated and signed. 
3.
Only permanent pen is to be used to record the entries. 
4.
No correction ink is to be used. If corrections need to be done, the
entry can be struck off. 
5. No empty pages should be left in the logbook. Any empty page
should be struck off.  
9.2.2 Minutes of Meetings
Meetings are important team activities especially when decisions are to be 
made, tasks are distributed and progress is reported. Thus it is very necessary 
to run meetings and document them in a structured and effective manner. It 
is highly recommended that a team member be designated as the chairperson 
of the meeting. This is normally the project manager or the team leader. The
meeting should have a designated scribe or secretary who will take the 
minutes. Team members may take on this role alternatively. 
The process of running a structured meeting is described below: 
1.
The secretary sends the meeting agenda to all the team members,
preferably 2 days before the meeting. The agenda is a document that 
outlines the items that the meeting will discuss. The agenda is set 
based on what the meeting intends to achieve, team members may 
request certain items to be added to the agenda. 
2.
The first item on the agenda should be to review and approve the
minutes of the previous meeting. This is to ensure that all the team 
members accept the minutes as a correct and accurate representation 
of what was agreed upon in the previous meeting. 
3.
The second item on a meeting agenda is the "matters arising" from 
the previous meeting. Matters arising are action items requested of 
the team members and they need to report on their progress. 
4.
At the time of meeting, the chairperson calls the meeting to order and 
follows the agenda. After approving the minutes of the previous 
meeting and reporting on the matters arising, the meeting then goes 
through the new items on the agenda. 
5.
The scribe records the discussion focusing on decisions made, which 
need to be recorded clearly, and action items as they will represent 
the matters arising for the next meeting. 
9.2.3 Technical Reports
Technical reports are very important documents that outline the work done, 
and the main findings and impact of that work. It is important to avoid any 
plagiarism when writing a report and any work of others used should be
properly cited and attributed to the source. Nowadays, there are software
tools to help check the submitted work against other available and published 
work.  
A technical report usually follows the structure below: 
1.
Cover Page 
The cover page should have a clear and concise title of the report 
together with the names of the authors who have substantially 
contributed to the work. 
2.
Executive Summary or Abstract
This section gives a summary of the work undertaken, its objectives, 
methodology, and its major findings. 
3.
Introduction
The introduction section (it can be an introduction chapter for a longer 
report) contains basic information about the work undertaken, including 
the background and objectives, stakeholders, and success measures.  
4.
Literature Review
In this part of the report, the available information about the work is 
outlined and critically analysed. A good literature review surveys the 
available books, journals, patent databases, conference proceedings and
other technical reports. The outcome of a good literature review is the
establishment of the edge of the available knowledge and the
identification of any knowledge gaps and challenges that are delaying
progress in the field. 
5.
Methodology 
This section is dedicated to describe the methodology that is used to
achieve the objectives. This could be experimental, computational,
mathematical, statistical or combination of these methods. The section 
also describes how the data will be collected and analysed and clearly
outlines the limitations of the methodology. 
6.
Results and Findings
All major findings of the work done are documented in this section. 
These findings can be reported in the form of graphs, tables and figures 
for easy analysis.
7.
Discussion
In this section, the results are critically discussed and compared with 
other results available in the literature. The impact of the results of the 
work is elucidated and suggestions for future work may be
recommended. 
8.
Appendices
This is an optional section where detailed derivations of some equations 
used in the report, and other materials relevant to the report but are too
lengthy to be part of the main report body can be included. 
9.
References
All the references used in the report need to be listed here. There are 
numbers of systems to do the references, including Harvard, APA and
IEEE. Referencing system should be consistent throughout the report. 
9.2.4 Communication via E-mail 
E-mails are a very important form of communication. In this section, some 
guidelines for the effective use of emails are outlined
1.
Use an e-mail ID that represents you, your team or your company. Email IDs such as superblur@hotmail.com, may be cool but they will not 
help you create the impression which you want to give. This is 
especially true if you e-mail bankers, funders, academic institutions 
and government agencies. 
2.
When sending an e-mail put the intended recipients in the "to" field. 
Those who are carbon-copied for their information should have their 
e-mails in the "cc" field. "Bcc" or blind carbon-copy can be used to email a large number of recipients while keeping a personalised feel. 
You will also avoid the recipients replying to all and creating 
nuisance for others who would then receive unwanted e-mails. 
3.
Choose a concise and representative "subject" for your e-mail. 
4.
Avoid putting images in the e-mail as most e-mail providers will
filter them out. 
5.
Avoid sending large attachments unless necessary. Nobody enjoys
having their inbox flooded by large messages. 
6.
Avoid capitalising words and paragraphs in your e-mail. Capitalised
words are difficult to read and the give the recipients an impression
that you are shouting at them. 
7.
Although e-mails are a quick and efficient way of communication, 
they represent a poor way of communicating when emotions are high. 
When you are angry, do not reply e-mails. You may just make things 
worse. You can reply the following day when you have cooled down 
or you may even pick up the phone and speak to the person who emailed you to explain your stance. 
8.
Use a neat signature that contains your name, position and contact 
details. 
9.2.5 Operation Manuals
Operation Manuals are very interesting documents that users are supposed 
to read before using their new products. In the human-centred design chapter,
we postulated that a well-designed product should be used with minimum 
reference to instructions. However, many products will still need operation 
manuals, these can range from an IKEA table that needs to be assembled by 
the customer to an airplane with an operation manual that describes various 
aspects of its operation and maintenance.
IKEA Instruction Manuals (Source: ikea.com) 
Operation Manuals may serve legal needs as well; it is where the 
manufacturers describe the way a product should (or should not) be used. In 
any case, operation manuals should be developed with the user in mind. This 
means that they should be clear, concise, and straight to the point. My 
favourite example is the IKEA manuals; they contain very few words, and
anyone without technical expertise can use them to assemble the furniture 
purchased. 
9.3 Teamwork 
Teamwork is a necessary collaborative skill; it is very difficult to imagine
success without it. The challenges that are presented by today's complex 
environment can only be addressed by highly effective teams of people from 
different walks of life. Although teamwork is one of the highly sought-after 
skills, employers around the world are complaining that academic
programmes are unable to equip the graduates with the necessary skills to 
work well in teams. This section attempts to provide a simple and clear
methodology to develop skills and techniques that can go a long way in
ensuring sustainable team success. 
9.3.1
Selecting the Team Members
Needing a team to complete a given task is an acknowledgement that, no
matter how clever an individual is, she or he will most likely not have all the
necessary skills and resources to complete the task. Successful teams 
comprise of motivated people who have the necessary skills and attitudes to
address the challenge at hand. Team members complement each other and
bring to the table the diversity that is necessary to encourage creativity and 
amplify the team's effectiveness. Successful teams have members who
possess diversified skills that can be described in the cognitive, psychomotor, 
and affective domains, as well as other relevant attributes for the specific 
function or role that they are playing. The cognitive, psychomotor, and
affective domains are commonly referred to as the skills of the head, hand, 
and heart, respectively. 
The cognitive domain is associated with the knowledge required to fulfil 
a specific function within the team. An example of this would be knowledge 
in international law, mathematics, or biology. The psychomotor domain 
involves the specific skills required to perform a given function such as 
operating a certain machine or using specific software. The affective domain 
includes attitudes and emotions the person has to have in order to effectively 
work in the team. This may include self-awareness and empathy. For example, 
a certain team member may be required to have knowledge in international
business law (cognitive), skills to operate the company proprietary software 
(psychomotor), as well as good communication skills and empathy (affective).
Other attributes may include the person's height, weight, or professional 
qualifications. The various functions of the team members are dependent 
upon the type of project. 
Take the Taylor's Racing Team for example, in the team there are specific
functions, such as the driver, team manager, and mechanic, and each has an 
important role to play in the team's success. These roles require specific
cognitive, psychomotor and affective attributes along with other relevant 
attributes. These are summarised in the following table. 
Team Members' Attributes
Function
Knowledge
Skills
Cognitive 
Psychomotor
Attitudes/ 
Feelings
Affective 
Attribute 
Driver
 Driving
Lightweight 
Race License
TeamRace 
Manager
Regulations  Empathy 
Mechanic 
Engine
Engine
Principles 
Repair
The collection of knowledge, skills and attitudes of team members, if 
integrated in a synergic manner, result in the development of the core 
competencies of a team. A core competency of a team or a company is a
distinct ability that a team has that contributes to its success and results in
integrating and amplifying the strengths of the individual team members. 
9.3.2 Core Competency
To define core competency, let us first define both words individually.
According to the Oxford Learners Dictionary, core is defined as the most 
important or central part of something; competency is defined as a skill that 
is required in a particular job or for a particular task. So, in general, a core
competency is an ability or skill that is central to the identity of the team and 
is a result of the combined skills, techniques, and culture of the team, thus 
giving the team a competitive advantage.
For example, Apple Inc.'s core competency is its attractive design and 
the ease of use of its products. While the core competency of Dell can be 
considered to be its efficient and integrated production system. 
9.3.3 Organisation Chart
When working in big teams or when engaged in official work that requires 
clear documentation of individual roles, an organisation chart is necessary to 
display the structure of the project team, team members, their functions, as
well as their relationship and the lines of authority within the team. The
organisation chart can be used to streamline and focus the core competencies
of the team, leading toward sustainable delivery of value. It can also be used 
to simplify the decision making process. 
The most common organisational charts used in organisations, projects 
or businesses are the hierarchical type and the matrix type. The hierarchical 
type of organisation chart has a top down order of organising the team 
members and represents a more traditional way of running a team. The team 
leader would be at the top of the organisation chart, a few people would 
report to her (him) and there would be a few others reporting to them. The
hierarchical type organisation chart can be detailed and complicated with 
many layers depending on the organisational needs. 
Project 
Leader
Design 
Production 
Quality 
Dept. Head
Dept. Head
Dept. Head
Member A
Member B
Member C
Member D 
Hierarchy organisation chart 
The matrix type organisation chart reflects a more flexible approach to 
resources allocation. It has a leader at the top, managers for various functions 
and managers for different projects. Managers of different functions such as 
design, planning, and production are expected to allocate resources and
support different projects. 
Matrix organisation chart 
9.3.4 Team Evolution 
Tuckman Model 
Teamwork is a complex human interaction that requires certain skills that can 
be learned and developed over time. This starts with understanding the 
various stages a group of people who are working together as a team
normally go through. The Tuckman Model is one of the best models that
describes how a team evolves and can provide a useful insight into human
interaction in a team.
1.
Forming 
Forming is the first stage of team evolution. The team members are 
normally selected because of their capabilities and skills related to the 
project. During this stage, the enthusiasm among the team members is 
high, but the knowledge of the tasks assigned to them and their teammates, 
as well as the team dynamics, is usually low.
2.
Storming 
As time goes by and tasks accumulate, enthusiasm wears off but
knowledge may not necessarily grow. The combination of low enthusiasm
and low knowledge leads to stress and conflict, and different team 
members respond differently; some will be disappointed and confused, 
whereas some will just withdraw. The storming stage is a difficult one but
it is necessary in order to move into the remaining team evolution stages. 
The key is to be able to recognise the storming stage when it happens and
go through it swiftly. 
3.
Norming 
The norming stage is where leadership potential shines. Normally what 
happens is that some (at least one) team members take charge and pulls 
the team members towards achieving the team's objectives. In this stage, 
enthusiasm may still be low, but knowledge and respect are definitely on 
the rise. Team members will start to taste success as they meet task 
deadlines. This stage is necessary to lay down the foundation for the next 
stage. 
4.
Performing
Building on the momentum of the norming stage, the performing stage
features high knowledge and high enthusiasm. Arriving at this stage is a 
hallmark of successful teamwork. In this stage, respect and appreciation 
for team members' individual qualities are prevalent. Team members also
have an accurate self-assessment of their own strengths and capabilities. 
The table below shows how a typical student team evolves over a period 
of a 14-week semester at Taylor's University. The students work in
multidisciplinary teams to Conceive, Design, Implement and Operate an
artefact which can be a racing car, an ergonomic chair, a solar boat, a robot or 
a vending machine. 
Week
StudentTeam
Team Activity
Project StageStage
1 Overwhelmed  -  -  - 
2 Finding the way Forming
Forming
Forming
Storming
Casual 
meeting 
Casual 
meeting 
Serious
meeting 
Serious
meeting 
3 
Knowing the 
team 
Disappointed/  4 
Misunderstood 
Blaming/ 5 
blamed
Complaining/ 
6 
withdrawing Storming Conflict
Forced to work 
7 
it out Storming Conflict
- 
Sketch (C) 
Sketches (C) 
Initial Design
(D) 
Improved 
Design (D) 
Improved 
Design (D) 
Leadership
emerging
Improved 
Design (D) 
Leading/ 
8 
following/ 
Storming
kicked out
Leading/ 
9 
following Norming Negotiating
Final Design 
(D) 
10 Participating Norming Negotiating Building (I) 
11
Actively
Normingparticipating
12 Understanding Performing
13 Respecting Performing
Role
acceptance
Role
understanding 
Mutual 
Respect
Building (I) 
Building (I) 
Building (I) 
14 Appreciating Performing Appreciation
Completing 
(O) 
9.3.5 
Team Building Exercises
After selecting the team members, we can accelerate and boost the team 
performance through variety of team building exercises. These are activities
that the team members can do together. Normally, team members will do 
some fun exercises as a group. These can include solving some interesting 
mental or physical challenges or even cooking. Through these exercises, team
members get to appreciate each other and the diversity that they bring to the 
team. Team building can be done with newly formed teams or pre-existing 
teams that are given new tasks or wish to rekindle the team spirit.   
As mentioned in the emotional intelligence chapter, our school team 
went for the "Shoot the Boss!" activity in 2013 before accreditation. This 
activity also served as a team-building exercise. The accreditation is an
extremely important event that ensures that our graduates will obtain 
internationally recognised degrees. To achieve better team spirit among our
academic team, we designed a fun activity where we went to a paintball court
and each member of the staff was asked 3 in-depth questions about the
accreditation to gauge their knowledge and their level involvement in the 
accreditation process. If the staff member fails to answer at least 2 out of 3 
questions correctly, the staff needs to take the marker and shoot me (the dean
of the school). Because most of the staff did not want to shoot me (or so I
hoped), they really prepared for this exercise. Still some of them did not 
manage to answer 2 out of 3 questions right and they had to play the role of 
the firing squad. While most of them missed me on purpose, the exercise
really brought the team closer together. This exercise enabled us to identify a 
few areas for improvement, created alignment among the staff, and most 
importantly communicated the commitment of the school's management in a 
very clear way. Since then we have successfully achieved our accreditation.
To our delight, the accreditation report identified a number of strengths for
our school, among those was "highly motivated staff and students". Now,
other departments in the university are asking us to facilitate similar team
building sessions for their staff. 
9.4 
Connections and Networking 
The ability to establish diverse connections and networking is a key skill for 
success. Networks can be real or virtual, personal or professional and they all 
need to be purposefully built and nurtured to be able to add value to the 
individuals within them. Virtual networks such as Facebook, LinkedIn and 
Research Gate are growing in popularity, and employers nowadays check the 
Facebook profiles of their future employees to ensure that these job applicants 
represent a cultural fit for their organisations. It is very important to keep a 
decent profile on networks such as Facebook. LinkedIn provides a very 
professional platform where individuals can keep their employment history
and acquired skills up to date. A growing number of human resource 
managers use LinkedIn as a recruitment platform when they are looking for
suitable job candidates.  
Networking can happen the good old way as well - in person or face-toface networking. Professional bodies regulating the work of different
professions, as well as conferences and trade shows, are good platforms to 
meet people with similar interests. Make sure that you carry a simple and
nicely designed name card with fonts that are easily read. 
Name Card 
Chapter 10 
Managing Projects for Success 
"The most efficient way to produce anything is to bring together under 
one management as many as possible of the activities needed to turn out 
the product." 
Peter Drucker 
Projects are important human activities. They represent non-repetitive and 
dynamic endeavours that involve the orchestration of a variety of resources, 
including human, financial, technical and legal resources; to achieve specific 
objectives within a certain timeframe and budget. Each project is different 
and brings its own challenges and requirements; hence project management
is both a science and an art. A project can be organising a party or a family
holiday; renovating a house; or constructing a nuclear reactor. Managing 
projects is an integral part of the CDIO process and it plays a key role in 
bringing to life complex ideas that can range from developing a factory to 
manufacturing thousands of bicycles, or deploying a once-off space shuttle, 
to working to increase sales or improve customer satisfaction. Hence, 
managing successful projects can be defined as achieving the project 
objectives in time and on budget. This chapter will explore the basic project
management tools and present them in a simplified and practical manner.
The typical project management process or project life cycle goes 
through the following phases: 
1.
Initiation
2.
Planning 
3.
Execution
4.
Monitoring and Controlling 
5.
Closing 
These phases are described in the sections below.
10.1 Project Initiating 
Project initiation is the first stage, and it takes place before the project is 
launched. During this stage, priority analysis, feasibility studies, and
complexity analysis are performed. If a project is deemed feasible, the project 
scope, description and objectives are finalised and documented. This is 
achieved through clearly understanding why the project is undertaken and 
how success is measured. In this stage the following questions can be very 
useful:
1.
 Why is the project being undertaken? What is the gap that the 
project is closing or what is the opportunity that the project is
realising?
An example for a gap can be "Customer satisfaction is down by 20%," 
while an example of an opportunity may be "There is a demand for 
a smart phone application that can track the level of air pollution." 
2. How long has this gap existed, or how long is the opportunity 
expected to last? 
3.
What would be the impact of not addressing the gap or harnessing
the opportunity?
The impact could be a further decrease in customer satisfaction 
and/or loss of market share. 
4.
What causes the gap or the opportunity? 
For example, the decline in customer satisfaction can be due to the
poor quality of the company's products or the lack of training of the
customer service staff. 
5.
What are the project deliverables and objectives and what is the
project scope? 
The project Objectives should be S.M.A.R.T. They should be Specific, 
Measurable, Attainable, Realistic and Time-bound. The Scope of the 
project refers to the extent of the project. For example, a project to
address the gap in point 1 above can have the objective of improving
satisfaction level of online customers (Specific customer segment) by 
20% (Measurable) within 3 months (Time-bound). The Objective is 
Attainable and Realistic as well. The Scope of the project refers to the
extent to which the project will go to achieve the objective(s). This can 
be, for example, "The project will focus on training the customer 
service staff" or "Implement a Six Sigma quality assurance 
programme to improve the quality of the products." 
6.
What are the resources the project needs to succeed?
7.
Who are the Stakeholders of the project?
Stakeholders of a project are individuals, groups or entities that are 
affected or impacted by the project, and can affect or impact its 
successful completion. One of the key tasks and responsibilities of the 
project team is to identify, classify and engage the project 
stakeholders. If the project, for example, involves establishing a new
branch of a bank, the stakeholders can include the customers, staff, 
the central bank which needs to issues a permit, businesses and 
residents surrounding the new branch, suppliers of banking 
equipment and ATM machines, as well as the competing banks. 
Every one of these stakeholders may affect the project and be affected 
by it negatively, positively or both. For example, residents living 
close to the new bank branch may benefit from the conveniences that
bank brings along but they may suffer from traffic congestion as more 
customers start to patronise the new bank. Likewise, these residents 
may opt to lobby the authorities against issuing the permit to the
bank to operate the new branch. It is clear that the project team needs 
to consider matters and relationships beyond the obvious of kitting 
the building and staffing the branch. Project management and 
stakeholders' management require a systems thinking approach that 
integrates the various aspects of the project to ensure that the project 
will be a sustainable success.   
8.
What is the level of complexity of the project?
9.
What are the risks associated with this project?
10. What are the policies and procedures that can affect the project? 
Complexity Assessment Graph 
Answering the above 10 questions can help guide the thinking process 
and help prepare the project proposal. The initiation phase should result in 
the identification of clear objectives and deliverables and how to go about 
achieving them. This should be agreed upon and signed off by the project 
sponsor or customer. A project's sponsor is the individual that controls 
schedule, scope, budget and quality of project; while the customer represent 
the individual or group that either ordered the project or receives the first line 
of benefit from the project or both. 
10.2 Project Planning 
Once the project is approved, the project manager and the core team will start 
working on more detailed planning. This includes identifying and recruiting 
other project team members, and estimating the total project cost and
duration. The planning stage features the use of a number of tools to estimate 
cost and duration for the project. These include the project's budget, Gantt 
chart, Work Breakdown Structure and Network Diagrams. Project planning 
also involves the management and mitigation of any risks that may 
negatively impact the project. 
It is useful here to define some key project elements that are used by
project management professionals. These terms are listed below: 
Task
: A distinct piece of work that represents part of the project and is
assigned to an individual or a group. A project can be broken down to specific
tasks and the timely and successful completion of different tasks is necessary 
for other project-related tasks to be completed. 
Deliverable
: A clear and measurable outcome of a successful task. For 
example, a task can be "To install 3 ATM machines in the new branch." A 
deliverable will be "3 ATM machines are operational by the 3rd of January at 
noon." 
Lag
: A time delay between subsequent tasks. For example, if the first task is 
to plaster a wall and the second task is to paint that same wall, a time Lag to 
allow the wall to thoroughly dry is necessary. 
Milestone
: A major and visible progress achieved on the project schedule.  If 
you are building a house, milestones can include completing the foundation, 
completing the structure, exterior finishing and interior design.   
10.2.1 
Cost and Resources Estimation
The project cost is a key planning component. It represents an account of all 
the costs that the project will require in order to be successfully completed. 
This includes the cost of human resources and other direct and indirect costs. 
This has to be aligned with the budget available for the customer, and will 
drive a variety of decisions such as the choice of materials and other
implementation techniques. 
10.2.2 Time Estimation
Gantt Chart
Gantt charts are among the most essential project management tools. A Gantt 
chart represents the schedule of different project tasks and deliverables as a 
function of time. If kept updated, it can give an overall knowledge of the 
progress of the project. 
Gantt Chart 
Work Breakdown Structure 
This is a structural task and deliverable way of describing a project. It is a 
useful project management and systems thinking tool. It helps decompose a 
system or projects based on the flow of materials and products, data, and
information, or services. An example of WBS is given below. 
Electric 3-Wheeler
Project Planning 
& Proposal
Research
Component 
Design
Construction
Define Project 
Scope
Chassis & 
Suspension
Chassis
Mock Chassis
Work
Breakdown
Manoeuvrability
Suspension 
Geometry
Electrical
Systems
Design Proposal
Materials
Electrical 
Systems & 
Batteries
An Example of a Work Breakdown Structure 
To develop useful and easy-to-use WBS, the following design features 
need to be observed:  
1. Deliverables Driven
The WBS should focus on planning deliverables and outcomes rather than
just tasks and actions. 
2. 100% rule
This rule indicates that the WBS should encompass 100% of the work and
deliverables defined by the project scope. This assumes that proper work has 
been done to ensure no major component is missed. One way to ensure that 
is to check the projects from the materials and products flow point of view, 
information and data point of view, as well as services point of view. 
3. Mutual Exclusivity 
There should be no overlap in scope definition between different elements of 
a work breakdown structure. Whenever overlap is experienced, the scope
should be broken down. 
4. WBS Elements' Coding
Elements of the WBS need to be coded in a meaningful way and the level of
details can be fine-tuned so that the terminal elements (elements that are not 
subdivided) are not too big or too small. An example of the coding is given
below. 
1. Product Manufacturing
1.1 
Customer Specification
1.2 
Parts Manufacturing
1.3 
Parts Assembly
1.4 
Quality Control 
2. Marketing
2.1 
Media 
2.2 
Marketing Strategy 
2.3 
Control & Assessment
3. Finance 
3.1 
Budget
3.2 
Source for Material Suppliers
Network Diagram
This diagram depicts the logical sequence and concurrence of various
deliverables, tasks, subtasks and milestones in a project by showing different 
tasks in relation to each other. A very simple example is shown below. 
Network Diagram 
The flow through which a series of activities that depend on one another
and are connected in sequence is called a Path. The path that takes the longest
time in the network diagram is referred to as the Critical Path. It provides an 
indication of how long it would take to complete the project. Any delay along 
the critical path will affect the entire project! 
ES : Earliest Start
DUR : Duration 
EF : Earliest Finish 
LS 
: Latest Start 
F : Float 
LF
: Latest Finish
In the network diagram shown, task A and C can start at the same time. 
Task B can start only after task A is completed, that is why A is predecessor 
for B and B is successor for A. Task E can start after both tasks B and D have
been completed, it has two predecessors. The method to identify the time 
required by an activity is called Activity on the Node (AoN). This gives a 
quick estimation of the critical path of a project. In the case of the network
diagram above, the critical path is CDE (13 days). A more detailed way to
estimate a project timeline is the Precedence Diagramming Method (PDM) 
which is demonstrated on the network diagram. Besides identifying the 
Critical Path, this method can help identify dependencies, lead and lag times, 
as well as slack or float.
Float (or slack) is the amount of time an activity can be delayed without 
causing a delay in the subsequent activity or the project completion date. 
There are two types of float, free float, which is the amount of time an activity 
can be delayed without impacting the ES of a successor activity, and total float, 
which is the total amount of time an activity can be delayed without 
impacting the project completing date. Generally, the float can be defined by 
the equation below. 
F= LS-ES
Time estimates based on dependency can be obtained via the forward 
pass and backward pass method. The forward pass method is used to obtain
Earliest Start and Earliest Finish while the backward pass method is used to 
obtain Latest Start and Latest Finish. 
Forward Pass
ES (Current) + DUR (Current) = EF (Successor) 
ES 
: Earliest time for an activity to start
EF 
: Earliest time for an activity to finish 
DUR 
: The anticipated duration of the activity 
EF from predecessor activity is brought on as ES for successor activity 
Backward Pass 
LS (Current) - DUR (Predecessor) = LS (Predecessor) 
LS 
: Latest time for an activity to start 
LF 
: Latest time for an activity to finish 
Joins are the activities that are connected to more than one activity, either 
upstream or downstream. When performing a forward pass, use highest
value of ES (Successor). For backward pass the lowest value of LS 
(Predecessor) should be used. 
In order to shorten the critical path, project managers often resort to the 
measures below: 
1.
Fast tracking: Shortening the time taken to complete an activity by 
converting series activities to parallel activities. 
2.
Crashing: Shortening the time taken to complete activity by utilising 
more resources. 
3.
Reduce scope. 
10.2.3 Risk Management 
Risk is often referred to outcomes that have negative impacts on the 
achievement of the project's objectives. When dealing with risks, one should
consider the probability an event occurring, its impact, the range of possible
outcomes, as well as expected timing and frequency. Past lessons learnt can 
inform the risk management plan. Some projects have a risk management 
committee that meets regularly to ensure alignment and standardisation in
responses and communication. 
The strategies to manage the risk includes the following: 
1.
 Risk Evasion: Develop a conservative plan to avoid the risk 
altogether. This is also called risk aversion and may increase the time 
and cost of a project and result in missing some opportunities.
2.
Risk Mitigation: Plan to reduce the risk through diversifying the 
supply chains, for example, to mitigate the risk of delay in supply of 
source materials. 
3.
Risk Acceptance and Monitoring: If there is no alternative, the risk 
is simply accepted and monitored. 
4.
Risk Transfer: Purchase insurance.
10.3 Project Executing 
Armed with the project description, goals, cost, and duration, project 
managers can start the various tasks to execute the project. During this stage 
many tasks need to be performed, including staffing, purchasing and 
procurement, and sub-contracting. 
Procurement of goods, materials and services at the right price and
quality is an essential component of the success of any project. In a globally
connected economy, appreciating and understanding the behaviour of
supply chains will go a long way in ensuring the delivery of the project 
objectives. The procurement process typically involves the following steps: 
1.
Needs identification
2.
Supplier selection 
3.
Negotiation
4.
Logistics and quality management 
10.4 
Project Monitoring and Controlling
As time progresses, project managers spend a fair bit of their time monitoring 
the progress of various components of the project and making decisions to
ensure that the project remains on track in terms of delivering the agreed 
upon goals on time and on budget. More often than not, change happens on 
the ground and the project plans need to be altered in response to those 
changes. Project managers need to dynamically respond to changes in the
environment while maintaining communication channels with all the 
stakeholders and ensuring compliance with the legal, technical, 
environmental and financial requirements. 
10.5 Project Closing 
No project is successfully completed without a proper closing stage. In this 
stage the project is handed over to the project owner and the project team 
needs to ensure that the handover process is well documented and ensuring 
the satisfaction of various stakeholders. The closing process includes a review 
and assessment of the project performance and the documentation of any 
learning to be incorporated in future projects. 
10.6 
Project Stakeholders Management 
Stakeholders are defined as any group, organisation or individual(s) who are 
affected by, or can affect, the success of your project and/or operation. 
Stakeholders can be internal or external, and the stakeholders' landscape can 
be very dynamic and a new group can join or leave the stakeholders' list.
When studying the stakeholders, it is useful to ask the following 5 
questions: 
1.
Who are your stakeholders?  
2.
What do your stakeholders value?
3.
Are you providing that?
4.
How far are you from achieving stakeholders' satisfaction?
5.
Do you have plans to close the gap? 
The ICE framework for stakeholders' management involves three stages, 
namely to Identify, Classify and Engage with the stakeholders. 
Stakeholders Identification 
There are a number of ways to draw the stakeholders' map. The choice of the
suitable map is dependent on the purpose of the stakeholder analysis. The 
map can be drawn by looking at the network diagram of a project; everyone 
who performs or can affect a task is a stakeholder. A more generic 
stakeholders' map is given below. 
Company/Project
A Map of the Stakeholders of a Company/Project 
Stakeholders Classification 
Stakeholder identification often results in a long list of all the stakeholders 
that can affect, or be affected by the project. Hence, it is essential to classify 
the stakeholders to prioritise the engagement process. This can be done based 
on the interest and power of each stakeholder. 
Stakeholder's interest determines if the stakeholder is more likely to 
cooperate or be a threat, while the stakeholder's power determines the level 
of the cooperation or threat presented. 
Stakeholder's Potential for Support/Threat to an Organisation
Stakeholders can also be scored based on their power, proximity and 
urgency. The stakeholders can be ranked based on the total score, the higher 
the score the higher the importance of a stakeholder. 
Power
1: Cannot cause much change. 
5: Has the power to stop the project or activity. 
Proximity 
1: Remotely working with the project or activity. 
5: Directly working with the project or activity. 
Urgency
1: Little action outside the routine is required. 
5: Action needs to be taken immediately. 
Stakeholders Engagement 
After classifying the stakeholders based on their importance and whether 
they are supportive, non-supportive, marginal or mixed-blessing, an 
engagement strategy can be drawn out. The communication is the essence of
the engagement strategy and the SUCCESS framework, as discussed earlier, 
is a good one to adopt here. 
Supportive stakeholders are those whose interests are aligned with those
of the project and represent no threat. They can be advocates for the project 
and the engagement plan should focus on empowering them to do so. An
example would be the stakeholders who have a direct interest in the success
of the project. 
Marginal stakeholders have little interest in the success of the project but
they represent no threat either. They can be monitored for any changes in 
their stand. There is potential to win them over. 
Mixed-blessing stakeholders are those who have high interest in 
collaborating with the project team and at the same time, if they are not happy 
or satisfied, can represent a real threat. Continuous monitoring and 
communication are necessary to ensure that they are positively engaged. 
Examples of these stakeholders are governmental agencies that have an 
interest in the given project and they have the power to shut it down, for 
example through cancellation of permits. 
Non-supportive stakeholders are those who represent a threat and the 
potential to collaborate with them is limited. Competitors fall in this category
and we need to monitor them and defend the interest of the project if 
necessary. 
Chapter 11 
Entrepreneurship and Innovation 
"Innovation is the specific instrument of entrepreneurship. The act that 
endows resources with a new capacity to create wealth." 
Peter Drucker 
Entrepreneurs and innovators are everywhere. They continuously surprise 
us and push the limits in their pursuit of uncovering, developing, and 
delivering value. They succeed at times and fail at others, but they always
continue to try. In 2013, I delivered a Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) 
on Entrepreneurship. This course was one of the first MOOCs in Asia and it
was a success with more than 2,500 students from more than 120 countries. A
few months after delivering the course, my son asked me, "Dad, you are not 
a businessman, so how come you are teaching entrepreneurship?" My answer 
was that I see entrepreneurship as a frame of mind. Although
entrepreneurship is often associated with business activities, teachers, 
doctors, students, and community leaders can be entrepreneurial when they 
go about doing their jobs effectively and differently, adding value and 
reaching new levels of performance. I hope that had I managed to convince 
him!    
Entrepreneurship and innovation skills are mental models and thinking 
habits that can be developed and nurtured. Wiring of these mental models 
and thinking habits can generate a mindset that focuses on the identification 
of opportunities and delivering value and is rooted in the persistence to push
the limit to continually learn and grow. Although entrepreneurship is often 
associated with business activities and money-making, entrepreneurship at
its heart is about finding one's inner calling, creating value and building a 
better world using innovative methods. So while founders of great businesses 
are successful entrepreneurs who create value and provide employment,
entrepreneurship can be anything and everywhere including at not-for-profit 
organisations. It can be practiced at home, in schools, in government agencies,
hospitals, and sport clubs. A mother who keeps her family healthy and well 
fed despite the difficulties in the environment can be considered an 
entrepreneur. A teacher who utilises innovative techniques to improve the 
students' learning experience can be regarded an entrepreneur too.
We know that every person is unique. This is literally true as the genetic 
composition of each one of us is different from that of everyone else who has 
ever lived on this earth. This makes everyone's potential unique and
distinctive. In order to achieve individual fulfilment and happiness as well as 
collective diversity, this uniqueness needs to be nurtured and expressed, as 
this will help us find our individual purpose and inner calling, and in the 
process will make our society more diverse and resilient. Entrepreneurship 
as a mindset as well as activity provides the avenue for human uniqueness to 
flourish and enables individuals to realise their potential. This century can be 
considered to be the century of entrepreneurship and innovation, where 
human uniqueness is celebrated and where the challenges we are facing can 
only be addressed using totally different approaches from what we have been 
utilising thus far. This is also the age when technology empowers individuals 
to pursue the mastery of their destiny. Whether you aim to have your own 
business and make profit, or seek employment in an existing set-up, 
entrepreneurial thinking will be a valuable asset. As a matter of fact, 
employers around the world are searching for innovative and entrepreneurial 
individuals to fill the vacancies at their companies and organisations.  
This chapter explores entrepreneurship and innovation as a mindset that 
seeks opportunity and value. The chapter also introduces techniques that can 
be used to create value and realise opportunities in a variety of contexts. 
11.1 
Philosophy of Entrepreneurship 
Entrepreneurs are optimistic and pragmatic individuals who believe in
creating a better world. Often they take risks to expand the existing 
paradigms and they are motivated by making a difference as a way of making 
money. They see challenges as opportunities and solutions in disguise. 
Entrepreneurs are innovative and creative individuals that inspire change 
and add value in all walks of life.
In 1990, Jerry Sternin was sent by the "Save the Children" organisation 
to fight severe malnutrition in rural communities of Vietnam. The Vietnamese
foreign minister gave him just six months to make a difference. Studying the
situation, he realised that malnutrition in Vietnam is caused by poor
sanitation, poverty, and lack of education. These are chronic challenges that
had plagued the country for decades and if Jerry were to make any difference
in six months, he needed to Conceive an innovative and entrepreneurial
solution. He simply asked a question, are there any poor families whose 
children were bigger and healthier than the typical child? When the research 
team started to collect data to answer this question, they indeed found some 
children who, despite poverty, were healthy and well fed. Observing what 
the mothers of the healthier children were doing differently, the team noticed 
that these mothers were feeding their children smaller portions of food, more
often throughout the day. Mothers of healthy children were also collecting 
brine shrimps from the rice paddy fields and sweet potatoes grown in their 
gardens and adding these to their daily soups or rice dishes (even though 
most people avoided these "low class" foods). When serving their children, 
these mothers were observed to scoop from the bottom of the pot, making 
sure that the children ate the shrimp and greens that had settled during 
cooking. Empowered by this revelation, Jerry was ready to Design a 
nutritional programme that was based on the successful mothers' feeding 
routines. The Implementation stage of this project took place as Jerry and his 
team prepared the communication plan to show the mothers that the solution 
was in their hands and they can do something to improve the health of their 
children. Operation was done as Jerry organised group cooking sessions to 
share the best practices with the mothers and ensure that they were well 
trained.  
The project resulted in the sustainable rehabilitation of hundreds of 
malnourished children. The reason I described this project using the Conceive,
Design, Implement, Operate (CDIO) terminology is to emphasise that CDIO 
represents a systems approach to entrepreneurship that can be learned, 
analysed and improved.  
11.2 Business Value 
Creating value is at the heart of innovation and entrepreneurship. Value is 
created through producing products, goods, and services that perform a
needed task and generally make life easier and more enjoyable. Business 
value is the worth created by the entrepreneurial activities as perceived by 
different stakeholders. A sustainable business is one that is able to create
value for the customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, partners and the 
society at large. Understanding the value creation and management can 
enable the development of sustainable business models. It is important to 
know that different stakeholders' values are often integrated. The next 
sections provide descriptions of business value as perceived by different 
stakeholders. 
11.2.1 
Customer Value (Value Proposition) 
Value proposition summarises the unique value(s) a business promises to its 
intended customers. To develop differentiated, compelling, and unique value
propositions, entrepreneurs need to be very clear on the following: 
1.
Who is the customer? What market segment is being addressed?
2.
What do the customers value, need, and desire?
3.
How is the entrepreneur addressing the customers' needs and wants?
4.
How much are the customers willing to pay for the product or service?
A good value proposition has to be differentiated from those offered by 
the competitors and it can be based on the following: 
1.
Novelty: The product or service is desired and/or needed and is new 
and no other competitor is offering a similar value. This could be 
through developing an entirely new product or service, such as the 
first mobile phone, or by offering a new service on an existing 
product, such as the first time a camera was added to a phone. 
2.
Performance: The product or service has a better performance that 
appeals to the customer such as being faster, lighter, sharper, etc. 
3.
Price/Cost Reduction: This happens when providing a product or
service at a lower cost or providing a product or service that reduces
the cost of running business or generates savings. 
4.
Design: The product or service has a superior design that customers
prefer. 
5.
Brand/Status: The product or service represents a respected brand 
that customers prefer or confers a certain status. Customers may pay 
ten times the price of a car if it is of a certain brand.
6.
 Risk reduction: A product or service that can offer the value of 
reducing the risk faced by the customers. An innovative insurance 
scheme is an example of this.
The selection of the value proposition depends on the business an
entrepreneur is in and the customer segment being served. Any of the
following may be a value proposition for a supermarket: 
1.
Lowest prices
2.
Largest variety of organic goods 
3.
Free delivery for online shopping 
The first value proposition, which is mainly based on cost, is rather weak
and undifferentiated. The second and third value propositions are better 
crafted. They address clear customer segments, the health conscious and the 
busy working respectively. If no other competing supermarket is offering 
these value propositions, and if the customer segment addressed is large 
enough, these value propositions represent a good foundation for the 
business.
11.2.2 Shareholder Value 
Business owners value profit and the increase in value of the shares they own. 
This happens when the business is well-run, gaining market share, and is able 
to generate value for its stakeholders. Business owners increasingly value 
making a positive difference in the world besides making a profit. This 
generally has a positive impact on the environment, employees, and 
customers. 
11.2.3 Employee Value 
Employees represent a key stakeholder and they play a major role in 
achieving the business objectives. As younger, digital-native individuals join
the workforce, they are demanding different things from their careers, and
employers need to respond to these demands in order to attract and retain 
talent. 
A recent survey of Millennials (born January 1983 onwards) conducted 
globally by Deloitte indicated that Millennials expect businesses to care; they 
want to be innovative, and to be given opportunities to practice leadership. 
They also want to make a difference. For them, success is not only measured 
financially but also through how society is improving. Clearly, as businesses 
employ more Millennials, the needs of these employees need to be addressed. 
11.2.4 
Suppliers and Partners Value 
Suppliers and partners value long term relationships with their customers. 
Large organisations, such as automotive manufacturers, do run supplier 
development programmes to ensure that suppliers are able to deliver parts 
and service of agreeable quality. Nowadays, more and more global coffee 
chains try to give the coffee bean farmers a fair deal. This is another example 
of understanding what a supplier values and delivering that. Fair deals are 
desirable not only by suppliers but also some customer segments that are
equity sensitive. 
11.2.5 Society Value 
Increasingly, businesses are expected to be responsible towards the 
environment and the societies they operate within. Nowadays, Corporate
Social Responsibility (CSR) represents a key element of the operation of the
multinational corporations with dedicated departments and budgets.  
11.3 
Business Model (Entrepreneurial Ecosystem) 
The entrepreneurial ecosystem is a description of the environment in which
the value proposition is created and delivered. This section is largely inspired 
by the concept of Business Model Canvas outlined in 'Business Model 
Generation' by Alexander Osterwalder and Yves Pigneur. While the book 
provides an excellent representation of the business model, I thought it is 
necessary to include competitors and the prevailing business climate as 
essential parts of the entrepreneurship ecosystem. Therefore, the
entrepreneurial ecosystem described here is an extension of the business
model canvas anchoring it into the prevailing business climate and 
introducing the competitive pressures to continuously keep competition in
mind while creating and delivering value. Different components of the
entrepreneurial ecosystem are discussed below. 
The Entrepreneurial Ecosystem 
11.3.1 Customer
Customers represent the centre of the business model and the entrepreneurial 
ecosystem. They are the reason for the existence of the business and they 
reserve the final judgement of the value that the business is set up to deliver. 
In order to address the customer needs more effectively, these needs can be
divided based on the type of market they belong to. These include: 
1.
Mass market: The product or service is needed by and available for
wide range of customers. This is true for products such as bread. 
2.
Niche market: The value proposition caters to a small segment of the 
population. An example would be the sale of expensive sport cars or 
specialised medical equipment.  
3.
Segmented market: An example of this is the airline market. For the 
same plane that travels from Kuala Lumpur to London, the airlines 
have economy class customers, business class customers, and first 
class customers. The market is segmented and a different value is 
delivered to each segment. 
11.3.2 Channels
In order to engage the customers and deliver the created value to them,
appropriate channels must be created and kept open. Through these channels 
a business can create awareness and market its products and services, sell and 
deliver these products and services, as well as provide after-sales services. 
Channels will include stores, websites and call centres. Taking a car company 
for example, the value is delivered to the customer through various 
marketing activities, making the cars available for a test drive, selling the car,
and eventually providing after-sales services and scheduled maintenance. To 
achieve this, the car manufacturer may use different media as awareness 
channels - car showrooms for exhibiting the cars and arranging for test drives, 
and service centres for the maintenance of the cars sold. 
11.3.3 Revenue and Cost
Money is the lifeline of any entrepreneurial undertaking. Money can come
into the organisation as revenue when goods and services are sold and leave 
it as cost when payments are made for different expenses. Structuring a 
sustainable revenue and cost model is a very important part of the business 
model and the entrepreneurial ecosystem. To turn out a profit, revenue
should be higher than the cost: 
Profit = Revenue - Cost 
Revenue is generated from asset sales, usage fees, subscription fees, 
rentals, licensing and brokerage fees. The cost refers to what the business 
needs to pay in taxes and wages, to acquire different raw materials, products, 
and services necessary to create and deliver the value proposition. 
11.3.4 Resources
In order to realise and deliver the value, a variety of resources are required. 
These resources represent the ingredients needed to create and deliver the 
product or service that the business is set to deliver; they include physical,
intellectual, human, and financial resources. Entrepreneurs need to secure 
these resources at a sustainable cost to maintain value creation.
11.3.5 Business Activities
Once the resources necessary to develop the value are secured, specific
activities are conducted by the business in order to realise the value. 
Depending on the nature of the value, these activities can be manufacturing, 
production, solution provision, and services. If the business is a bakery, then 
business activities include mixing, baking, and cake decorating. 
11.3.6 Partnerships
If you purchase an Apple product online, you will receive your order a few 
days later through a courier service. Apple does not own the courier service, 
but rather they have a partnership with it. This way Apple can focus on its 
core business and allow experts in the delivery business to do their magic. In
a similar manner, businesses can form strategic alliances between noncompetitors to deliver the value to the customers. These include joint 
ventures and buyer-supplier relationships. At times, partnerships between 
competing businesses are formed to control the market supply and demand
forces or to lobby policy makers to provide more favourable treatment. Car 
manufacturers in a country for example, can have partnerships to lobby the 
government to impose higher taxes on imported cars. 
11.3.7 Competitors
Competitors are a fact of life and an integral part of the entrepreneurial 
ecosystem. Even when an entrepreneur develops a totally new value 
proposition and creates a new market, it is just a matter of time before 
competitors appear and challenge the business' position. When analysing the 
entrepreneurial ecosystem, it is essential to keep competitors in mind.
Competitor analysis is essential for entrepreneurial success and the following 
questions can provide a useful framework for that analysis.
Who are your competitors? 
What can they offer to your customers? 
What competitive advantages do they have over you?
What would you do if you were the competitor? 
11.3.8 Business Environment 
Entrepreneurship flourishes by drawing on opportunities available in its 
environment. The prevailing market, cultural, and legislative conditions can 
affect the business' success. That is why it is necessary to take these conditions 
into account when developing a business model. It is essential, for example, 
to consider whether the economy is growing or shrinking, the price of energy,
and the existence of governmental policies to drive the economic activities in 
a certain direction. When analysing the business environment, the following
questions are useful to ask: 
What is the prevalent market condition? 
What legislative system does your business operate in? 
What are the opportunities in the environment? 
What are the threats to success? 
11.4 Business Plan 
A business plan is a useful document that entrepreneurs use to document and 
communicate the objectives, ecosystems, and aspirations of their businesses 
to potential investors and financers and other stakeholders such as 
government agencies.  
Business plans are not peculiar to only start-ups. They are written for 
existing businesses as well, especially when new products are planned or 
when expansion into new markets is contemplated. A typical business plan 
has the following sections: 
1.
Executive Summary: The executive summary of a business plan is a 
one-page summary that highlights the uniqueness of the business, its 
potential and any interesting facts about it. It is usually written after 
the completion of the business plan to provide a concise and accurate 
abstract.
2.
 The Company: This section presents the company (or the team) 
including the history and track record of the company as well as the 
organisation chart. The vision, mission, and core values of the
company are also featured here.  
3.
Business Value: Here the business value for different stakeholders is 
outlined. Of special interest and importance is the value proposition 
for the customers.
4.
 Market Analysis: Critical analysis of the prevailing market 
conditions and how the value proposition addresses a real need. It 
also indicates how you plan to market your product or service. It is
great if you have sold your products or services and have an existing
customer base.
5.
Competitive Advantage: Outline here any core competencies and
competitive advantages that you have. These include any access to 
information or technology, including patents and trade secrets.
6.
 Entrepreneurial Ecosystem and Business Model: Provide a 
complete entrepreneurial ecosystem as well as how you plan to make
money through defining your business model.
7.
 Financial Projection: Although it is often difficult to provide 
financial projections, especially for completely new ideas, most of the 
potential investors need to see some indicative financial projections 
in business plans.
11.5 
CDIO for the Market 
Marketing is an essential entrepreneurial activity. It entails knowing the
market conditions, the customers' requirements, needs and desires, and
communicating the value to the intended customers. There are many books 
written about marketing, so let us try here to introduce marketing in a slightly
different light. Here I wish to present marketing as a holistic process that 
starts at the Conceiving stage and continues through the Designing, 
Implementing and Operating stages. 
For example, if we want to make a whiteboard pen, we should Conceive
it and Design it for the market by keeping the customer needs in mind. So the 
pen needs to have the right colour, size and weight to give the user a desirable
experience. To Implement and Operate it for the market, we have to consider
the way we manufacture the pen and how that would impact its marketability. 
For example we can give the product an edge in the market by using nontoxic inks, utilising only fair-trade raw materials, adopting environmentally 
friendly ways of manufacturing, manufacturing locally, and providing the 
workers with good working conditions. There are many customer segments 
that will not buy the product if it was made in sweatshops or if child labour
was used to make it. In summary, marketing with CDIO for the market in
mind would require an in-depth knowledge of the customers' preferences, 
values, opinions and concerns with regards to different issues. Marketing is 
not an afterthought that takes place through advertising a product or service
after it is made.
11.5.1 
Market Lifecycle of Products and Services
Products and services, like living things, have lifecycles. Many products or
services begin their life's journey by being a novelty. Novel products are often 
expensive and have limited or poor performance, and only few would be 
willing to try them or afford them. Think of the first mobile phones, they were 
expensive, bulky, and had limited performance, at least because the service
was not widely available. However, as more and more customers see the 
potential of the product or service, technology and performance improves 
and the product or service becomes more common in the market. The lifecycle 
of products typically ends up by the product becoming a common 
commodity, i.e., when the product has become commonplace and there is 
little, or maybe no difference between the offering of different competitors. 
In the best-selling book 'Crossing the Chasm', Geoffrey Moore detailed 
five stages in the lifecycle of a product in relation to its market penetration. 
When a novel product or service is introduced into the market, few people 
would be willing to try it. Geoffrey Moore calls this pioneering group the 
"innovators". It is necessary to point out here that the innovators are different 
for different products and services. While some of us do not care about the
latest gadgets, they might wait in line to try the newest restaurant on the block; 
while others may be willing to pay extra just to be the first to wear the latest 
in fashion. The pool of innovators who are willing to try a new product is 
often very small, approximately 4% of the potential market size. The next
group of people who might be willing to try a new product is the "early 
adopters". Early adopters start using a product after being influenced by
advertisements or feedback from the innovators or both. The early adopters 
represent around 16% of the market. Research shows that most new products' 
market penetration slows down when it reaches 10% as if they reach a 
"chasm." Products that progress to reach the "early majority," which 
represents 50% of the market, need to "cross the chasm." Once the early 
majority adopts the new product, the price of the product will generally 
decrease, as more and more people are willing to use the product. This paves 
the road for the late majority and then the laggards to join. 
Product Adoption Lifecycle (Source: "Crossing the Chasm" by Geoffrey Moore)
To cross the chasm, a product needs to impress the innovators enough 
for them to be excited about it and talk about it to their friends and networks. 
If the innovators become the ambassadors for a product, they can produce 
enough momentum, together with the early adopters, to cross the chasm. 
11.5.2 
Market Evolution and Disruptive Innovation
A product starts its life with a certain performance level. As times goes by, 
often the performance improves. As more providers for similar products 
come into existence, a market range normally develops with high-end and 
low-end offerings. With time, the difference between the high-end and the 
low-end diminishes; that is when the product becomes an undifferentiated 
commodity.  
Taking the smartphone market as an example, there was a time when 
the iPhone represented the high end of the market with other imitators 
satisfying the lower end of the market, selling cheaper but with a lower brand
and performance offering. Currently the differentiation between various 
brands is becoming more difficult, and smartphones are almost becoming a 
commodity.  
Disruptive Innovation (Source: Innovator's Dilemma, Clayton Christensen) 
Clayton Christensen in his book 'The Innovator's Dilemma' presented
an interesting theory of what he calls "disruptive innovation." He explains 
how a new product, service, or company may drive existing prominent 
market players out of the market and conquer their market share. This 
happens by addressing market segments that are below the existing lower 
end of the market. An example of this is the budget airline that started not by 
competing with the established airlines, but rather by addressing a group of 
people that the established airlines never saw as customers. They targeted
people who travel using trains and buses and offered them a basic low cost, 
no frills, flying experience. The larger airlines didn't see the new players as a 
threat at first but as more and more people started travelling with these 
budget airlines, the larger airlines started losing market share and were 
compelled to re-evaluate their businesses' models or even go out of business. 
11.5.3 Market Penetration
When we examine the market for a certain product (or service) at a given
point of its lifecycle, the product (or service) may be anywhere from being a 
novel product (or service) to being sold in a mature and commoditised
market (such as the market for oil, minerals, and other commodities). In 
between these two extremes, a market often has clear high and low ends of
offering with a considerable price differential. To enter the market, 
entrepreneurs and businesses may select any of the approaches below: 
1.
Create a novel product. 
2.
Use disruptive innovation to provide value to a neglected market 
segment. 
3.
Differentiate a commodity. 
4. Challenge the existing market players by offering better price, 
performance or customer experience. 
Segway: A Product that Did Not Cross the Chasm (Source: Wiki Commons) 
Market entry with a novel product is always risky as the product may 
fail to cross the chasm. An example of a novel product is the Segway scooter. 
Although cool and highly innovative, the Segway is a commercial failure.
More work may be necessary to create an ecosystem in which the Segway will 
flourish. This can be done by engaging the innovators and the early adopters 
to fully embrace the technology. Depending on the product being examined, 
there are various ways to empower the innovators and early adopters to
become product advocates and to spread the word around; these approaches 
include lending the product or giving it away for free, and creating a 
partnership with these influential groups. 
When Nissan wanted to introduce and promote its Electric Vehicle "Leaf" 
in Malaysia, the company announced a programme where customers can
apply to use the car for few weeks. Clearly, this is an attempt to identify the
innovators and engage them. Now, the Electric Vehicle is yet to be a common 
sight on the streets of Malaysia, but the company's move to look for the 
innovators is definitely in the right direction. 
Nissan Leaf (Source: Wiki Commons)
Disrupting existing markets is happening almost on a daily basis. 
Addressing the needs of what is referred to as the "Bottom of the Pyramid", 
the billions of people whose needs are not being addressed just because they
do not have enough money now; represents the hottest economic opportunity
of the 21st Century. Seeing the poor as customers is a very powerful tool for
creating products and services that will disrupt existing markets. 
Commoditised products can be de-commoditised. The best strategy to 
market commoditised products is to differentiate your product from the
others offered by the competitors. Table salt (chemically known as sodium 
chloride, NaCl) is a commoditised product. However, a visit to your local 
supermarket will show many ingenious ways to differentiate this product 
and charging a premium. While the basic product may cost around RM1 per
kg, other variations including extra-fine, extra-coarse, iodine fortified, and 
sea salt are sold for up to 10 times the basic price. Other manufacturers try to 
differentiate their product using different ways, these include the use of
exclusive and attractive packaging.
Differentiating a Product. Salt as an Example 
11.5.4 
Customers' Power in a Digital World
In 2010, Adam Brimo was a software engineering and arts (international
relations) student at the University of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia 
when he started to have troubles with his newly purchased Vodafone mobile 
phone. After the company failed to address his complaints, including
dropped calls, poor reception, and no data coverage, all he wanted was to be
allowed to exit his contract. To his dismay, Vodafone insisted that he pay a 
fine before allowing him to terminate his contract. Frustrated by the lack of a 
working mobile phone, Adam started an online campaign to allow unhappy 
Vodafone customers to air their frustrations. I invited Adam to give a lecture 
as part of my Global Entrepreneurship course and he narrated the whole 
story to us. His campaign was on a website, which cunningly had the web 
address www.vodafail.com. "Initially I thought if I have 10 more people who 
faced the same issues with the service, then maybe Vodafone would listen. 
However I was amazed to see thousands and thousands of people sharing 
their complaints and stories online," Adam said. Quickly the campaign was 
picked up by the local media and the social networks, and soon Vodafone
took notice. Adam wanted the campaign to be productive and constructive, 
so he collated all the complaints in a report that Vodafone could act on. At 
the same time a law firm saw an opportunity in this and began collecting
interest for a class action lawsuit against Vodafone. Vodafone was eventually
forced to invest more than AUD 1 billion to upgrade its network and address 
the complaints. After the lecture Adam delivered to my class, one student 
tweeted asking whether Vodafone sees Adam as hero or a villain; we were
surprised that Vodafone tweeted back that they see him as "an agent of
change."  
Adam Brimo, Co-founder of OpenLearning
11.6 Lean Entrepreneurship 
In the Return on Failure chapter we will discuss the importance of failure, 
through pushing the limits of what is possible, as a mechanism to seek 
feedback in order to fine tune the behaviour or the offering, and move on to 
higher levels of performance. The concept of "Lean Entrepreneurship" or
"Lean Startup" represents one of the systematic techniques to yield a high 
Return on Failure. The concept is outlined in details in the book 'The Lean
Startup' by Eric Ries. As entrepreneurs are always in search of repeatable, 
sustainable and scalable business models, the basic premise of the Lean
Entrepreneurship is to quickly (and as cheaply as possible) build products
and get them into the hands of customers so that entrepreneurs can measure, 
learn, and produce even better ideas that will help identify that repeatable, 
sustainable and scalable business model. The evolutionary Build-MeasureLearn lean entrepreneurship cycle shown below needs to happen in the
shortest time possible and with the minimum cost possible. 
Lean Startup Reduces the Time Taken for the Build-Measure-Learn Cycle  
(Source: The Lean Startup, Eric Ries) 
Kal Joffres is the co-founder of Tandemic, where he helps NGOs and
companies such as Microsoft, Novo Nordisk, and Standard Chartered to
leverage the power of open innovation and social innovation to create new 
products and services. His organisation maintains HATI, the largest database 
for NGOs in Malaysia. When HATI started to receive requests from people
who were looking for volunteering opportunities, Kal realised that there is a 
need to help match volunteers with NGOs and that was how "do something 
good" came about. Tandemic spent a considerable amount of time and 
money building the website http://dosomething.gd. "This took a big chunk of
my holiday time in France," Kal said jokingly. However after the website was 
launched, it did not perform as expected! "The website we built was not 
exactly what the volunteering space needed" Kal told my students when he
was sharing his experience with them. "We assumed that few Malaysians are
interested in volunteering and that NGOs will be queuing to receive the
volunteers. Both assumptions were proven wrong! It turned out that 
Malaysians are interested in volunteering their time and expertise while the 
NGOs are apprehensive about how to train these volunteers and how to use
their services" he added. Reflecting on this experience, Kal felt that he should 
have built a much simpler website, spending less time and money, and then
check how the volunteers and NGOs would find the website. Although active 
in the NGOs and volunteering space, Kal admits that without putting a 
product in the hands of the customer, it is not likely to get the value 
proposition correct. "Let's face it, your first idea is seldom your best one!" Kal 
said. 
Kal Joffres, Co-founder of Tandemic 
Realising that the real need is to develop a solution to help NGOs
capitalise on the interest in volunteering as well as to train and manage 
volunteers, "do something good" used the lean startup principles to roll out 
a number of successful products including the "Super Volunteers Programme" 
where "super volunteers" help the NGOs organise and manage the other
volunteers. 
Do Something Good Website
11.7 Funding Entrepreneurship 
No chapter about entrepreneurship is complete without a section on how to
raise funds to support different entrepreneurial activities. There are a number 
of ways to get the funds to start up an entrepreneurial activity, including 
borrowing money from family and friends or convincing some investors to 
invest in the new business in return for some shares in it. 
The latest trend in funding entrepreneurial activities is crowd funding. 
Enabled by the convergence of the widespread of Internet and the availability 
of safe payment modes online, crowd funding is making use of the access to 
millions of individuals around the world to make the dreams of
entrepreneurs come true. The premise of crowd funding is very simple, an
entrepreneur who has conceived and designed a product and needs money 
to implement it, can start a crowd-funding campaign online, inviting 
interested people to pledge money in return for the product when the 
campaign is successful and the product is manufactured. Popular crowd
funding platforms include kickstarter.com, pozible.com and pitchin.my. 
Besides funding commercial undertakings, crowd-funding is now being used 
for social entrepreneurial endeavours as well. Community projects are being
made possible through the pledges of numerous contributors around the
world. 
In my opinion, crowd-funding is a very promising way to raise funds for 
two reasons. First, the crowd-funding exercise is also a form of market study, 
if the crowd-funding campaign is unsuccessful, entrepreneurs can use this as 
a very beneficial reality check in order to improve the project for the next 
iteration. Second, with crowd-funding, entrepreneurs can have a better 
chance at retaining control over their business ideas without the need to share 
their business prematurely with those who invest in them. 
Thus, crowd funding is the ultimate demonstration of the concept of 
"Lean Entrepreneurship." It provides both access to funding and the ultimate 
market endorsement. For a crowd-funding campaign to succeed, customers 
will need to give their ultimate vote of confidence, namely to pay for a 
product or service that is yet to completely exist. 
In 2014 I offered a free Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) entitled
Global Entrepreneurship. A central part of the course, and a requirement for 
successful completion, is a project where students are required to work in
teams and raise funds using crowd-funding. A number of campaigns were
successful and the students really had a great time working on their projects. 
Towards the end of the course, many students told me that the course and the 
crowd-funding campaign project have strengthened their self-confidence,
and that they are now more inclined to attempt entrepreneurial endeavours 
in the future. 
Pozible Crowdfunding Campaigns
Vivian Po is one of my Chemical Engineering students who took the 
Global Entrepreneurship course. She was inspired by the social entrepreneurs 
we invited as guest speakers for the course. She ran a highly successful 
crowd-funding campaign aimed at arranging a day out for the residence of a
nearby old folks home. At the end of the course, Vivian posted the following
post on the course website. "Being a girl who studied longer than the usual,
my life was filled with disappointment and procrastination. I was weak,
unorganised and full of negativity. But I've always had a big dream to have 
my own unique business. I chose this elective course to experience a subject
that is out of the engineering core while trying to fix my current financial 
crisis. To my surprise, this course taught me more than just making money. 
It taught me how to become a better person and that I'm able to make a 
difference in people's life while adding value. 
Vivian Po, Chemical Engineering Student 
"I am truly grateful for how this course was designed as it helped make 
me who I became today. Although this may sound like a new religion, I 
personally think it's a two-way traffic. You can make a difference in yourself 
if you want to and you have to believe in what you are doing. Trying new
things won't harm you and who knows, you may be surprised by the outcome. 
One significant activity that impacted me is the Brain Rewiring. I believe it 
truly made me a different individual. Not using the 'P' word really made 
things better, because when you rewire yourself towards positivity, whatever 
Challenge you are facing transforms into an Opportunity. That Opportunity 
would bring a new idea, that new idea might be your new direction for a new 
business, and that business brings you money that you want. See that
connection? 
"Through a series of inspiring sessions by awesome speakers taught me 
that business is not only about money. Money would be the second or third 
prize for a successful entrepreneur. The impact they made, the amount of
failures they went through, realising their dreams and how their passion 
drives them to where they are now is priceless! Even money can't buy the 
satisfaction and pride they achieved with their own hands. All these indeed
changed my perception of business! Aside from the speakers, I really had a 
great time with my online course mates! Working on a project with team 
members in different time zone was indeed challenging but it was truly a 
good experience. From that, I got myself few precious friends!" 
Chapter 12 
Return on Failure
"Try Again. Fail again. Fail better." 
Samuel Beckett
"I have not failed. I've just found 10,000 ways that won't work."
Thomas A. Edison
"I can accept failure, everyone fails at something. But I can't accept not
trying." 
Michael Jordan
"If you want to increase your success rate, double the failure rate." 
Thomas J. Watson
High performance always exists at the fringes of failure! High performers are 
called so because they are able to achieve things that the others deem difficult 
or even impossible to accomplish. Think of the athlete who breaks an
Olympic record or the scientist who finds a cure for a serious disease.
Analysing the success of these master performers in different fields reveal 
that prior to achieving mastery, producing masterpieces, and high level of 
performance, these masters have failed again and again, learning from their
every failure and using failures as stepping-stones towards success. This is 
true if we study Albert Einstein, Henry Ford or Michael Jordan. 
Many people use WD40 spray to loosen rusted metal parts, but very few 
know why the product is named WD40. The reason behind the name is that
the manufacturer tried 39 failed formulas before reaching the successful 40th
one. The Wrights brothers tried more than 200 wing designs and crashed their
plane 7 times before being able to fly, and Dyson tried more than 2,000 failing 
models before he managed to get his revolutionary vacuum cleaner to work, 
earning him millions in the process. 
(From top to bottom) Wright Flyer II, WD40, Dyson Vacuum Cleaner. 
(Source: Wiki Commons)
In this chapter we are concerned with the form of failure that could result
from pushing the limits and venturing into uncharted territories. It is the 
failure that may be encountered when novel banking products are introduced, 
ground-breaking technologies are attempted, and new procedures are 
experimented with. This failure is a necessary part of learning and should be 
cultivated and encouraged.
It is an interesting observation that although academic institutions 
generally have a high level concentration of intellectual capital (high number
of highly qualified, smart, and motivated people per unit area), these 
institutions seem to be unable to sustain the extreme level of innovation and 
entrepreneurship exhibited by individuals like Steve Jobs and Bill Gates. Both 
individuals dropped out from very good universities. One of the key reasons 
for this is that education systems have glorified successes and students are 
often rewarded to get the "correct" answer. The challenge is that the "correct" 
answer rarely exists in real life. Often what we have is a range of answers that
we need to select from depending on the prevailing conditions and
circumstances. Businesses can create innovative performance-driven cultures 
that appeal to the best employees by avoiding falling in the same trap of 
glorifying success. 
Academic institutions, too, need to encourage students to develop a high 
performance mindset. A key feature of the high performance mindset is to 
seek opportunities to learn new skills and capabilities that are beyond what 
is currently known, and thus pushing and stretching one's limits. This will 
inevitably lead into some failures, and we need to recognise these as 
opportunities for growth and feedback on our performance. 
12.1 
Learning and Failure 
As learning new things involves pushing one's limits and venturing into new 
growth territories, failure is inevitable and is an important step towards 
success. If we look at the major learning that took place in the life of each of
us, learning to walk and learning to speak stand out as major endeavours and
successes that changed our lives in profound ways. Now try to imagine, how 
did you learn to walk? You did not stand up one day at the age of 3 and
started climbing up the stairs! The journey would always begin by crawling, 
then taking clumsy steps and falling, until you gradually mastered the art of
walking. The same thing can be said of how you learned how to read, play
basketball, swim or drive a car.
Like learning new things, inventing new solutions and providing novel
value require venturing into new territories and acquiring new knowledge 
and skills. The 10,000 times Edison failed prior to succeeding with the light 
bulb were necessary investments to achieve success. The crucial thing here is 
to know how to fail well. The key to failing well is analysing each failure and 
understanding its root cause. Once the root cause of failure is discovered, 
strategies to improve performance should be developed and executed. This 
is followed by trying again, testing, and even failing again to get more
performance feedback. Small failures during learning have a similar effect to 
that limited infection has on the immune system; it makes it stronger. On the 
contrary, preventing the learners from experiencing failure will make them 
fragile and unprepared, just like an immune system that has never fought 
germs. 
The Performance Growth Model shown schematically in the figure on
the following page provides a mental framework to appreciate the role of 
failure in accomplishing high levels of performance. At the centre of the 
figure is the expected level of performance, this represents what we can do at 
a given time and is applicable to individuals or teams. An example of this 
would be how fast we can perform a certain task, how good we can play a 
certain sport or speak a given language, or how satisfied our customers are. 
If individuals or teams are interested in moving to the next level of
performance, beyond what is currently achievable by them, they will need to 
learn new skills, assume new attitudes and try new things. Clearly attempting 
to do things differently may result in failure and hence there is an attemptfail duality denoted by the symbol (
) at the border between the current level 
of performance and the next level. The Performance Growth Model can help 
us see this attempt-fail cycle as a necessary process for building momentum
leading towards having enough escape velocity to attain success and moving 
to a higher level of performance. This understanding is essential to sustaining
the motivation as failure may happen again and again, especially when 
attempting highly challenging objectives. Examining how innovators view
this failure is very instructional. It is not a coincidence that Edison said, "I
have not failed. I've just found 10,000 ways that won't work." Clearly he 
managed to convince himself that attempting anew after every failure is the 
only way to achieve enough momentum to accomplish success and create a 
new reality, a world that is lit by electricity. 
Performance Growth Model
The Wright Brothers successful flight took place in 1903. This 
accomplishment literally propelled humanity into a new territory, travel
through air. Sailing into uncharted territory meant that the Wright Brothers 
needed to discover the science behind human-powered flight, build and test 
the technology to achieve that. They operated not only at their own highest 
knowledge and capability level, but also that of the entire humanity at that
time. Crashing their plane 7 times and changing their wing design 200 times, 
the levels of failures that they encountered were so disheartening that Wilbur 
Wright declared in 1901: "Not within a thousand years will man ever fly." 
However, we all know that they prevailed and eventually created history. 
It is important to mention here that when we are operating at the border 
between record levels of performance and uncharted territories (the outer 
two circles of the Performance Growth Model), building momentum through
the attempt-fail cycle may take more than one lifetime or a career before 
achieving success. Sometimes those who start the cycle may not be around
when success is reached. For example, scientists have been working very hard 
for the past few decades trying to find a cure or a vaccine for AIDS. Thus far 
this goal has eluded us and we are still in the attempt-fail cycle stage. What 
we are sure of is that with every failure we learn more about the disease, and 
we come a step closer to achieving our goal. 
12.2 Failing Smart 
So now we understand the importance of failure as a step towards success, 
the question is how do we fail smart? Failing smart will have the following
features:
1.
Failing smart involves trying new techniques and strategies. These
techniques and strategies can be new to us, as we did not practice
them at our current level of performance, but are used by other 
performers who are beyond us. For example, in golf, there is a certain 
technique needed to swing the club in order to achieve the optimum 
results. The technique involves an orchestrated series of movements 
performed by the feet, legs, hips and arms. If you are just starting to 
play golf, that standard technique will be new to you (although other 
professional players may be using that technique naturally). While 
trying to use the technique you will fail again and again until you 
master it and move to the new level of performance. If you are on the
top of your game, any performance enhancement will include some
sort of record breaking. Once more, this will require trying new 
techniques (often never tried before) and failing while attempting to 
perfect them prior to breaking the record and creating a new level of
performance. 
2.
To be useful, failure should also be as fast and as cheap as possible. 
For example, if a bank is experimenting with a new technology to
replace ATM machines, it is very useful to quickly install this
technology in one branch, observe the failures of the system and
quickly and correct them with as little cost as possible. We do not 
want to roll out the new technology nationwide at a huge cost just to
realise that correcting it is going to affect the viability of the bank.
12.3 
Failure, Risk and Uncertainty 
Donald Rumsfeld, US secretary of defence during the US invasion of Iraq, 
said that there are two kinds of unknowns, known unknowns and unknown 
unknowns. Known unknowns are events for which we know their 
probability of happening; for example, we know how many people die of
heart-related diseases each year in a certain population group. When the 
known unknowns are negative in consequences, they are called risk. There 
are data available on the probability of the success of new business ventures, 
such as restaurants. So anyone who wishes to open a new restaurant should
know that only 10% of new restaurants survive and make money. When
trying ventures with a known risk margin, every effort needs to be made to 
ensure success, and any failure encountered should help to either reduce the
overall risk (through improving the process) of the next attempt to have more 
likelihood to be within the success zone. 
Unknown unknowns refer to events that may happen but we have no
idea about the probability of them happening. I am writing these lines while
sitting next to the swimming pool where my kids are swimming; there is no 
way that I can completely rule out the possibility that a meteor hits the exact 
point where I am sitting. However, the likelihood of this happening is very 
small (or so I hope). Because such an event, like being hit with a meteor is not 
a common encounter, we actually do not know the probability of it happening.
Such highly unlikely events are called "black swans," a term popularised by
Nassim Taleb who wrote a book carrying the same title. Black swans are a 
manifestation of the uncertainty in the system. The term black swan is 
derived from the fact that the statement "All swans are white" was thought 
to be validated by countless observations. It took only one sighting of a swan 
that is black in Australia to render this statement false. Black swans can be 
negative, like if a meteor hits where I am sitting now; or positive, like a gold 
mine is discovered underneath my house. 
In order for us to benefit from a positive black swan, it is necessary that 
we build a system and a culture that encourages tinkering, experimentation, 
risk taking and yes, failure. This culture should prevail in both the education 
and business world. The history of black swans is filled with unintended 
discoveries such as the microwave oven, vaccination, and Viagra. These 
discoveries were made possible because highly motivated people kept on 
pushing the limits of our knowledge while keeping an open mind to capture
any unexpected opportunity or a positive black swan. 
12.4 
Education and Encouraging Failure 
The importance of failure can never be underestimated in learning, progress
and development. Unfortunately, the education system is geared only to
celebrate success. Failures are ostracised and students are put in an 
environment in which risk-taking is not rewarded and often punished. 
Believing that unless we tinker and take risks, we will never be able to teach
others how to do so, at Taylor's University we experimented with making
failure a requirement for success by requiring each student to report a failure 
that they learned from while working on their projects. The quality of the 
failure and the depth of the learning and growth resulting from the failure 
are assessed for 10% of the final mark of one of the courses. The form that we 
requested the students to complete is shown on the next page. 
Return on Failure
Making mistakes and failing is an integral part of learning. Failures and
mistakes can be the result of accidents, miscommunication, ignoring 
instructions or regulations, or ignoring basic laws of nature. Failures can also
be a result of trial and error when the correct answer or the right solution does
not exist or has not been discovered yet. 
Failures are often a source of very valuable learning. In order for us to reap 
the full benefit of the failures we encounter and the mistakes we make, it is 
necessary for us to see failure as an investment that we can seek return over. 
This form is named Return on Failure and is designed to help you analyse
your failure and grow. Let us start! 
Complete the sections below. You may expand the space and use diagrams 
and pictures as necessary
Describe the failure or mistake that you are analysing
(Describe whether the mistake or failure is physical, technical, relational or
otherwise. If the failure was done in the course of a trial and error process, 
describe the cutting edge of technology/knowledge that you are exploring
as well. The failure may happen while you are testing a new process or
device or while you are trying a new skill. Use pictures, sketches and
diagrams if necessary) 
Examine what was the Root Cause of the failure
(Ask 5 Why questions starting with "Why did this failure happen?" if the
answer is the failure occurred because of "X", then ask "Why did X
happen?" and repeat this 5 times. This will yield the Root Cause of the 
failure)
Are there any other ways that you could have failed to achieve your
objectives?
(Here try to predict other ways that failure could have also happened) 
Describe how you will use the insight above so that you eliminate or
minimise the possibility of failure in the future.
What are the other key learnings from this failure?
Chapter 13 
Structured P Solving 
We have made a pledge not to use the P-word, so the purpose of this chapter 
is to introduce systematic and structured ways to resolve challenges and
realise opportunities. In this context, a challenge can be described as a 
situation in which the creation and delivery of value is obstructed. A
challenge can be viewed as an opportunity waiting to be realised through 
clearing the obstructed value channels or even discovering new channels that 
will yield higher value or perhaps entirely new values. This is true if the 
challenge we are facing is related to health, family, sales, studies, research, 
manufacturing, or customer services. Imagine that value is being created and 
delivered through a network of channels, and when some of these channels 
are obstructed or blocked, a challenge manifests itself. In order to allow the
value to flow freely, it is necessary to understand how the channels are 
obstructed, what obstructed them, and how to clear them or how to create 
alternative channels. The obstacles that obstruct the value channels can either 
be real or artificial. Artificial obstacles are often represented by mental models 
that perceive reality in an incorrect way. These include wrong beliefs and 
misconceptions. This chapter describes some structured techniques that can 
be used to solve challenges and clear the value channels. 
13.1 
Challenge Identification and Formulation 
A very important step for resolving any challenge is to accurately and 
correctly identify and describe it. This may sound intuitive, but you will find
it surprising how often people facing a challenge describe it wrongly, 
inconsistently or even fail to have a description at all. A "Challenge Statement" 
is a statement that outlines the challenge being encountered. It is written in a 
very clear and specific language and should identify the nature of the challenge, 
its impact, and how long it has been affecting the value creation and delivery. 
Examples of well-defined challenge statements are given below: 
"A company is rapidly losing market share to new players in the market. 
The market share dropped from 25% to 10%. This challenge persisted for the
past three quarters and if this continues at the same rate, the company will go 
out of business in 1 year." 
"The machine breaks down frequently causing a down time of 20 hours 
a week. This results in a delay of delivering customers' orders and the
customers' dissatisfaction is on the rise. This has been the case for two months 
now and if not addressed, it can result in lost business of RM100,000." 
"Shoplifting results, on average, in a loss of RM5,000 per week. This 
represents a ten-fold increase, and it took place over the last six months. If left
untreated, this can result in annual loss of RM250,000." 
13.2 
Root Cause Analysis 
After clearly stating the challenge, its impact, as well as its duration, the next 
logical step is to find the root cause for it. In other words, we need to identify 
the value channels that are obstructed and what is obstructing them, causing 
the value creation and delivery to be disrupted; in order to fix the root causes 
rather than just tackling the symptoms. Just like diseases that infect us, the 
root causes and the symptoms are often different. Fever, headache and
allergic reactions are frequent symptoms to a variety of diseases and an
effective cure needs a correct diagnosis in order to target the disease, not only 
its symptoms. There are a numbers of techniques to find the root cause of a
challenge, these include the 5 Whys, 4Ms and the Fishbone diagram. The
following sections give a brief description of these techniques. 
13.2.1 The 5 Whys
A simple and effective way to find the root cause of a certain challenge is to
ask enough whys (normally 5 whys are sufficient) until the root cause is 
revealed. For example, the challenge faced may be "the machine breaks down
frequently," we can ask the "why" questions and a typical sequence may be:
Q1 
: Why does the machine break down frequently?
A 
: Because the fuse keeps on blowing up. 
Q2 
: Why does the fuse blowing up?
A 
: Because the wrong rating was used. 
Q3 
: Why was the wrong rating used?
A 
: Because the maintenance personnel are not properly trained. 
Q4 
: Why are the maintenance personnel not properly trained?
A 
: Because the training department does not have the right staff to do 
the training. 
For the above challenge, it is clear that the root cause is related to the 
training and capability of the staff. While it is necessary to fix the broken part 
of the machine, clearly enhancing staff training and capabilities will ensure
that the issue will be resolved and it also ensures that similar issues will not 
crop up in the future. This may be achieved by developing policies for hiring
the right staff, engaging external trainers to train the existing staff, or even 
using an external vendor to perform the maintenance. 
13.2.2 
The 4M Method
Obstruction of value creation and delivery can happen because of one or more 
of the following factors; Man, Method, Machine, and Material. One way of 
understanding what obstructed the value channels is to study the 4Ms and
see how they contribute towards creating and delivering value. These factors 
are described below: 
Man
This refers to the people involved in the creation and delivery of the value. 
These people need to have the skills, attitudes and capabilities necessary to 
do their jobs efficiently and effectively. People involved in creating and 
delivering the value need to be qualified, trained, well compensated and
motivated to do their best and ensure that the intended value is consistently 
created and delivered. 
Method
Methods and processes represent the recipe used to create and deliver the 
value. They refer to the way a patient is examined at a hospital, a haircut is 
executed at a saloon, a phone call is handled at a call centre, a car is assembled 
at a factory, a washing machine is repaired at a workshop, and an exam paper 
corrected at a school. These methods should be well documented, clear, 
efficient, effective and consistent. A good method should have no bottleneck 
and should also be free of non-value-adding steps. These methods can be
documented using flowcharts and SOPs (Standard Operation Procedures). 
Flow Chart for a Process
Machine
The tools of the trade are a very important part of creating and delivering the 
promised value. Using the right equipment is key to a successful, sustainable,
and economical operation. Using the wrong, unmaintained, and uncalibrated
tools and machines can result in a variety of challenges that will obstruct the 
value creation and delivery. 
Material 
Materials refer to the ingredients necessary to create and deliver the promised 
value. If the value is a physical product, then using the right materials to make 
the product is an important prerequisite to having a successful product and 
a good customer experience. This concept can be extended to other resources 
that can be part of making of the product or service even if it is a virtual one.
So let us examine one of the challenges described earlier using this 
method. The challenge statement is "Shoplifting results, on average, in a loss
of RM5,000 per week. This represents a ten-fold increase and it took place
over the last six months. If left untreated, this can result in annual loss of
RM250,000." 
Element
Man
Method
Machine
Material 
The Use of 4M Method  
Questions
Are the personnel well trained? 
Are there enough personnel to man the outlets?
Is there a proper process to control the stock movement? 
Is there a process to prosecute shoplifters? 
Is the technology to curb shoplifting, such as cameras and 
scanners installed?
Not relevant
13.2.3 Fishbone Diagram
Fishbone diagram represents a visual combination of both the 5 Whys and 
4M. The diagram resembles a fish, where the fish head represent the 
challenge, and different root causes emanate from the spine of the fish. Each
major cause may be represented by a bone which can have smaller bones 
branching from it, representing another layer of causes. To analyse the 
challenge "A company is rapidly losing market share to new players in the 
market. The market share dropped from 25% to 10%. This challenge persisted
for the past three quarters, and if this continues at the same rate, the company 
will go out of business in 1 year," the fishbone diagram is given below. 
Fishbone Diagram 
13.3 
Estimation and Quantitative Analysis 
One important skill necessary for formulating challenges is the ability to
produce meaningful estimations. In order to come up with useful challenge 
statements, we often need to estimate the impact and duration of a certain 
challenge. However, coming up with good estimates may not be a 
straightforward matter. When I ask my students questions like "How many 
petrol stations are there in Malaysia?" or "How many fish are there in a 
certain lake?" often the answer I receive is "I have no idea!" This section
provides a simple methodology to enable us to develop meaningful 
estimations of the unknown quantities necessary to solve challenges. 
When trying to estimate an unknown quantity, it is necessary to realise 
that we always have some idea about the range within which the answer
exists. For example, for the number of petrol stations in Malaysia, we can 
always come up with a range that we are confident that the correct answer 
sits within. Even if you do not know much about Malaysia, there exist a range 
that you are confident contains the correct number. This could be between 
100 and 1,000,000 petrol station. This number can be further refined by trying 
to get more information about the country, such as the population of Malaysia, 
the number of cars in the country, or even the length of highways in the 
country. The key strategy is to first develop the range within which the 
answer exists. You may take this as an exercise and try to estimate how many 
petrol stations are there in Malaysia.
Assigning a number or a range to an unknown quantity is a very useful 
step in converting a challenge into an opportunity. This is a skill that can be 
developed and honed. Examples of quantities that need to be systematically 
estimated include: business value, size of the market, satisfaction level of the 
customers of a competitor and the number of fishes in the sea. 
During World War II, the Allies were very interested in knowing the
production levels of the German Panzer tanks. The Allies analysts came up
with an ingenious way to estimate the number of tanks and the level of
production. This was done through studying the serial numbers of the 
engines and the chassis of the destroyed or captured tanks. Serial numbers 
are normally sequential and with enough samples, one can work out the
sequence in which they are produced. This can be used to infer the numbers 
of tanks and the levels of their production. To avoid giving out important 
information, modern military manufacturers are encrypting the serial 
numbers of the military equipment that may end up in the hands of the
enemy. 
Learning from this, try to estimate the level of production of 42-inch flat 
screen TVs of a certain brand (let's say Panasonic). You may use the serial 
numbers of the TVs on display in a number of supermarkets nearby.   
13.4 Final Steps 
Now that we explored how to identify and accurately formulate challenges
and identify their root causes, the next logical step is to work out a solution
that unlocks the value channels and enables it to smoothly flow to the 
intended recipients. This can be done using the methods discussed in Chapter 
4. Methods such as brainstorming, trimming, random entry, and Blue Ocean 
Strategy can be effectively used to address the root causes of challenges and 
provide sustainable cost effective solutions for them. 
Chapter 14 
Engineering a Holistic Education 
Holistic
 / h
l st k /
Characterised by the belief that the parts of something are intimately 
interconnected and explicable only by reference to the whole.
Oxford Dictionary 
"Education is not preparation for life; education is life itself." 
John Dewey 
"The object of education is to prepare the young to educate themselves 
throughout their lives." 
Robert M. Hutchins
Islam Ali is one of my online students. She is registered for two of my Massive 
Open Online Courses (MOOCs), "Achieve Success with Emotional 
Intelligence" and "Global Entrepreneurship". Islam is from Jordan and she
graduated with a degree in Mechatronic Engineering in 2007. While I was 
putting the final touches on this book, I received a message from her telling 
me how much she enjoyed my courses and that she found them useful. I also 
got to know that, due to the economic outlook in the region where Islam lives, 
and because the traditional industry is not familiar with the field of her study,
Mechatronics, Islam was unable to get a job although she tried for seven years! 
"Depression and pessimism were surrounding me. Every small issue 
looked like a disaster. I did not think of suicide, but I reached a level that I 
was able to understand how people feel when they hate their presence and
commit suicide," Islam Ali said. "Seven years have passed, and each year my 
birthday felt like a funeral as I just lost another year of my life without 
achieving anything to be proud of," she added. After joining the MOOCs, 
Islam started a learning and discovery journey with other students from all 
over the world. Being a part of a supportive learning community, she 
immersed herself into the assignments, group works and mental exercises. 
"When I joined the 'Achieve Success with Emotional Intelligence course,' I
was surprised by the immediate and huge amount of happiness and
satisfaction I got by watching the first lecture. I watched 7 lectures in the first 
week! Getting to know my emotions and naming them was really a unique 
experience to me. Brain Rewiring was so difficult for a pessimistic person like 
me, but in a week I felt the change. I started to be happy and hopeful almost
all the time." Islam said. "Then I decided to join the 'Global Entrepreneurship'
MOOC and I was impressed by the fact that engineers are required to master 
business skills in order to support their work as engineers. Moreover, I
realised that being an engineer doesn't mean that I must work in the industry. 
I can be a teacher with a mindset of an engineer and build generations of
successful and happy people. Currently, I'm working on a project with
another student from Sudan, whom I met in the MOOC. Our project is a 
twinning programme that involves students of the same age from Jordan and 
Sudan." She added.
Stories like the one above repeated a number of times in the free online
courses I offered and this got me thinking. How can we provide people with
a holistic education that not only prepares them for employment but also
prepares them for life, equipping them with the skills and the emotional 
resilience necessary for living in a fast changing and complex world?  
In my mind education, and especially higher education, is not only a 
requirement to get a job, but more importantly, a character building process 
through which the students learn how to think and how to learn, enabling 
them to start their lifelong journeys of self-development, both personal and 
professional; with the aim of unleashing their potential and the potential of 
those around them.  
I intend to dedicate this chapter to discuss some aspirational thoughts
for the future of education and how we can engineer holistic educational 
experiences. The chapter is also an invitation to discuss and to collaborate.
14.1 Holistic Education 
At Taylor's University, we opted to define holistic education as the provision 
of three main integrated components, namely Academic Excellence, 
Emotional Well-being and the development of Lifelong Life Skills.
A Model for Holistic Education 
Academic Excellence is probably the easiest among the three to define 
and measure. However, when it comes to Life Skills and Emotional Wellbeing, people agree on their importance and differ on how to inculcate and 
measure them. Some educators even doubt that traits such as emotional 
intelligence can be taught and learnt. Encountering bright graduates who
report that their life was changed after taking some of the MOOCs we offered
inspired me to think that approaching the ideal of holistic education might 
not be that difficult and illusive after all! Here, I am proposing that besides 
upholding academic excellence, as defined by the norms and standards in the
respective academic fields, we can accomplish holistic education by 
introducing opportunities to grow emotional intelligence (emotional wellbeing) and entrepreneurial behaviour (lifelong life skills). Although I am
driving this point by sharing success stories mainly from the online students, 
it is useful to say that similar trends were noticed in the on-campus cohort 
who took these course as well. It is necessary to mention here that 
entrepreneurship, in the context of our discussion, is defined as the art of 
adding value and it can be practiced in any aspect of life. As a matter of fact, 
employers nowadays are increasingly looking for "entrepreneurial 
employees" who are able to identify needs, and are able create and deliver
value.  
There is a happy ending for the story of Islam Ali. Realising her passion
for education, she is now planning to study a higher diploma in Curriculum 
and Teaching Methods and attend training at Bright Innovators, a centre that 
teaches electrical engineering principles for children using simple ways. "I'm 
planning to have my own school which uses innovative teaching methods 
and has its own curriculum. This is my vision for the coming 10 years." Islam 
told me. 
She attributes most of the changes of her thinking to her attending the
"Achieve Success with Emotional Intelligence" and "Global 
Entrepreneurship" MOOCs. This supports the hypothesis that emotional 
intelligence and entrepreneurship can represent the other cornerstones of the 
holistic education triangle. Beyond the anecdotal story, the initial 
measurements that we performed on the participants who completed these
Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) showed very promising results 
indicating that these traits can be taught and learnt. Links to these courses are 
available below: 
https://www.openlearning.com/courses/Success
https://www.openlearning.com/courses/GlobalEntrepreneurship
Another student who took the "Global Entrepreneurship" MOOC is 
Caleb Adoh, a final year student at the English Department of the University 
of Lagos in Nigeria, and this is his story. In an article Caleb wrote online, he 
described how his university hosted a guest speaker to address the students 
before they graduate, advising them about life after school. The speaker 
shared her personal story as an alumnus of the same university and the
challenges she faced to prove herself in the job market. "My classmates and I 
really appreciated her touching story, but she ended her talk sounding
pessimistic and negative—she painted a gloomy picture of what it is like to 
graduate from a Nigerian University, and the supposed fate that awaits us. 
The hopes and great anticipation of some of my classmates were dashed as
she ended her story on a sad note. The very funny part of her talk which I
tried to internalise was the fact that she told us she presently runs a fashion
store, where she makes clothes, designs and sells them off to potential buyers. 
She is an Entrepreneur. Unfortunately, she never mentioned anything about 
entrepreneurship or how we can connect with the entrepreneurial spirit
inside of us. Entrepreneurship is not just about being your own boss, as we 
have been made to believe. Entrepreneurship is starting up something to 
improve your life and to improve the lives of people around you." Caleb
wrote. He went on saying "I have been having meaningful and consistent 
conversations with my friends at the university and prospective final year 
students. Only a small percentage of them have thought about starting a 
venture. Nigerian Universities churn out a great number of graduates at the 
end of every academic session, but only a very small number of these
graduates ever get to the "C" of the CDIO (Conceive Design Implement 
Operate) of entrepreneurship, talk less of designing, implementing or 
operating the entrepreneurial idea. There is a type of mental limitation put 
up by Nigerian graduates and job seekers, and this mental limitation ends up
limiting every move they make with regards to having a great career in 
Nigeria.  
"I presently take a Massive Online Open Course (MOOC) on Global 
Entrepreneurship, put together by Taylor's University, Malaysia. There is 
something we are told to do by the professor daily, it is called Brain Rewiring. 
You cannot make any meaningful progress as an entrepreneur if your brain
is not wired to think in a particular way. It is high time that Nigerian
graduates rewire their thinking. We need to think positively and look out for 
new venture opportunities in Nigeria." Caleb added. 
Reading the above, I was thoroughly pleased. Caleb Adoh, an English
major graduate, not only captured the essence of the course and its Brain 
Rewiring component, but also utilised the CDIO framework to analyse the 
education system and diagnosed what needs to be developed by the
graduates in his country. This further supports CDIO as a universal 
systematic frame of thinking that goes beyond engineering. 
14.2 
Learning Beyond the School 
The American educational philosopher Robert M. Hutchins said "the object 
of education is to prepare the young to educate themselves throughout their 
lives." Although he said this half a century ago, this definition of education 
seems even more pertinent today. In a complex an ever-changing world, the 
ability to continue learning and the availability of the accessible and relevant 
learning materials and platforms is paramount. As I mentioned earlier, this 
chapter is aspirational and I will continue to tell anecdotal stories to drive the 
point of how important to keep people engaged in lifelong learning journeys. 
Our heroine here is Carol Ragsdale, a student registered for the "Achieve 
Success with Emotional Intelligence" MOOC. Carol lives in the United States 
and she describes herself as "a 50 year old female, a daughter, a sister, a wife, 
a mother and a grandmother." She goes on saying "my life is quite simple I
surround myself with my family and a few chosen friends but mostly my
children.  I have four stepchildren, three boys and a daughter, but I am the
biological mother of a daughter who is the oldest and a son who is seven years 
younger." Carol became a single mother at the age of thirty-two after a very 
difficult sixteen year marriage.  She spent the next six years alone raising her 
children and pursuing a career as a project engineer. Later she met a 
wonderful man and together they shared their lives and their children, 
becoming quite a large family.  "I was raised by two wonderful parents, my
father was a very hard working man and a very present figure in my life, my 
mother also very hard working with a career devoted to being a wife to my 
father and a mother to me and my two brothers," Carol remembers. "I was 
pushed by my parents throughout my life believing that if you work hard, do
as you are told and get your education, good things will always fill your life" 
she said. 
"I believed this with all my being and so made this direction the focal 
point of my life.  I would find out on November 11th, 2006 that there was much
more to learn about life than what I had been taught during my earlier years.
At the age of forty-two I would face my worst night.  My son, my baby at the 
young age of nineteen would lose his life behind the wheel of an automobile. 
Nothing I had ever been taught prepared me for the devastation I faced.  My 
journey through loss and grief has been a very winding road, one of darkness 
and aloneness beyond anything I could have imagined." Carol sadly recalls. 
"The death of my son immediately consumed me.  For the next six years I lost 
my entire identity. The women I was existed no more.  Nothing in my life 
would ever be the same again.  Things that brought me joy prior to the death 
of my son, now brought me only pain and anguish. 
"I isolated myself from the world, from my husband, my children and
my entire family. I viewed myself as a failure and blamed myself for the death 
of my son, after all it was my job to keep him safe from harm and I had failed
to do this. No one had ever told me that there would be things that would 
occur in my life that I would be unable to control. I questioned every aspect
of my being, including my faith. I could not understand how this could 
happen to me.  My son was such a good boy, his life had just began, he had 
made it through the tough stubborn adolescent years and was becoming such 
a wonderful loving, smart, generous young man. I never experienced so 
much darkness and pain in my life. It was at times as physically painful as it
was mentally. I was stuck in a rim between life and death.  I would get up 
after only a few hours of sleep and go to my job and perform my daily task 
as robotically as can be done.  I would have interaction with as few people as 
possible and even then I would have to fight back my tears. 
"Every day I would search the web looking for an answer to how I would
ever be able to re-join the world and be part of the living when every aspect
of my life felt dead.  I took part in grieving classes, both religious and nonreligious and became member of organisations to educate parents within our 
community on the importance of training our children how to drive safely. 
"My career started showing signs of deterioration as a result of my 
growing isolation and lack of communication with my peers who no longer 
feel comfortable having me as part of their team.  My job has been the only 
thing that I have managed to hold on to. It has become my lifeline and if I
can't overcome my grief, I might lose it too. Fear and anxiety flowed through
my body as I began wondering how I could possibly overcome yet another 
loss in my life." Carol said. "One day while I was searching for some magical 
answer that would pull me from this deep pit of misery and darkness, I ran
across 'Taylor's University' on my search bar.  The university was offering a 
free course named 'Achieve Success with Emotional Intelligence.' I was 
immediately intrigued and without hesitation or my usual research I just
enrolled and began taking the course!   
"I have to say nothing I had done since the death of my son had reached 
beyond the surface of my existence the way the first lecture on 'What is 
Success' did.  I felt an immediate rush of excitement and as I began 
performing the daily Brain Rewiring and My Emotions Today and the other
requirements of the course, I couldn't help but feel the change that was now 
flowing through me. My husband started making comments, as well as my 
parents and children, as I was, without noticing myself, forcing my way to 
talk to all of them.  I know I still have a long way to go before I can honestly
say I have reached the end of my grief. I will always long for my son and
wish for him to be here alongside me.  But through this one course offered by 
Taylor's University, I am now seeing the light through which I have also
found the laughter and the warmth of love that I thought would never return. 
I have learned that had I been given certain tools earlier in my life I would
have been better prepared and more capable of enduring the struggles 
associated with my life." Carol added hopefully.  
Now Carol plans to reach out to other people to share the importance of 
holistic education. "Our children should be taught the importance of 
emotional intelligence as soon as we teach them how to talk! I now believe it 
is even more important than the physics, science and math that we demand 
they learn about their emotions and how to manage themselves.  At the end
of the day the technical knowledge without a true-life understanding is the 
mechanics without any power" she concluded. 
Another story that I wish to share is that of Paul Koba, a young man 
living in Tanzania. He was one of the first students to join the "Achieve
Success with Emotional Intelligence" MOOC. Paul got married in December 
2013 and his marriage has a story that is related to the course. "Through this
course I watched amazing and life-changing lectures that made me aware of
myself, have more self-management and social awareness, and enabled me
to develop my relationships with others" Paul said. "I was in love with a 
young lady, but I could not reveal my love to her despite being together for 3 
years" he added shyly. "Finally, I was able to confess my love to her openly. 
I brought her a ring and I asked the biggest question of my life 'will you marry 
me?' And she said yes! She told me she loved me too and she can't wait to 
marry me. I could not believe myself." He added. "I told her that I loved her
so much but I was unable to open up and say it. Fear gripped my emotions, I 
was afraid I was going to lose her. As a matter of fact, I managed to do this 
after I watched lecture 2 and liked the part that 'All emotions are ok'" Paul 
added. "She asked me 'where did you get the courage to say that you love me
after all these years?' And I replied that I am currently studying at Taylor's
School of Engineering a course entitled 'Achieve Success with Emotional 
Intelligence.' This course is teaching us that all emotions are ok and that 
encouraged me to share my feelings." he went on saying. Paul reported this
on the course website right after the engagement and he generously invited
everyone on the course to attend the wedding in Tanzania! 
Paul's Engagement 
14.3 
Mission Zero: A Vision for Higher Education 
Thomas Piketty in his book 'Capital in the 21st Century' explored the 
increasingly unequal global distribution of wealth and the destabilising
effects of this trend. The worrying thing is as the demand for higher education 
increases and the cost of delivering it rises steeply, there is a real danger of 
aggravating the unequal access to higher education, further worsening the
unequal distribution of wealth and jeopardising the opportunity of large 
socio-economic population groups to escape the grips of poverty. 
In order to address this, I am proposing "Mission Zero" which is a vision 
for higher education that revolves around bringing two variables, eventually,
to zero. The first variable is the "tuition fees" that educational institutions
charge their students; and the second variable is the "impact on the job
market." These two parameters are further explained below. This is done in 
light of engineering education, but I am sure the model can be extended to 
other types of educational programmes too.  
14.3.1 Zero Tuition Fees
I shall be using numbers that pertain to private education in Malaysia to 
explain the case here. Malaysia has a thriving private for profit education
industry that does not receive financial support from the government. This 
means the published tuition fees represent a true indicator of the real cost of 
delivering the educational programmes (plus profit). Currently, educating an 
engineer in Malaysia cost anywhere between 20,000 to 60,000 USD (over four
years). This represents the tuition fees without any living expenses. In order 
to sustainably reduce the tuition fees and drive them to zero, without 
resorting to governmental subsidy; the model being proposed here requires 
rethinking the role of students in their educational ecosystem from being a 
passive receiver of knowledge to playing a key role in building value-adding
systems that can be commercialised and sold for a profit and utilising the 
revenue to educate the students. The theory is very simple, if we can offer an
educational programme for free and still turn out a profit, the model can then
be scaled up and deployed anywhere. To achieve this, two convergent 
strategies need to come together. The first is to view the students as a source 
of intellectual capital that can be harnessed and exchanged. In a projectbased-learning environment, such as the one at Taylor's School of 
Engineering, this is straightforward, at least from an intellectual point of view. 
Our students make hundreds of projects every year, these include racing cars, 
computer-operated machine and robots. It is not difficult to make the mental
leap towards creating projects that the market requires and real customers 
would be willing to pay for. The second strategy is to forge a partnership with 
employers with the intention of structuring a "Graduate Tailoring 
Programme." This entails that the academic institution incorporates the 
specific requirements of the participating employers who are willing to
sponsor a minimum number of students, in the curriculum. This is not a 
traditional scholarship offered by the employer but rather an investment that 
comes from staff development budget. The employer will pay it in lieu of the
customisation of the educational experience of small batches of students
enabling them to be ready to join the sponsoring employer upon graduation. 
This includes exposing the students to the company culture, business model, 
software, machinery etc. Done right, this can result in a considerable 
reduction of training and development cost for the employers. 
As educating an engineer in Malaysia costs, on average, 10,000 USD a
year (for 4 years), Mission Zero will be achieved when we can earn 833 USD 
per student per month. This is done through the sale of the students' 
intellectual and project work, the sponsorship received from the employers, 
as well as any other source that we can think of as we innovatively address 
the market needs. It would also be very helpful if academic institutions are 
able to spin-off successful businesses based on the intellectual work of both 
students and academics, this way part of the profit can be directed to funding 
the tuition fees of new students.  
14.3.2 Zero Impact on the Job Market 
Every year, millions of graduates leave universities and join the ranks of job 
seekers. While academic institutions are mainly preparing their graduates to
compete with those of other academic institutions, I propose the second part 
of Mission Zero, which is to have an overall zero impact on the job market. 
The idea is simple; it is about developing entrepreneurial graduates who 
think of creating jobs, not only competing for them. When a cohort of 100 
graduates leaves a university, if 5 of the 100 end up undertaking
entrepreneurial activities and employ 95 people, they will offset the 95 jobs 
taken by their fellow graduates. This way we can ensure a steady supply of 
jobs for everyone. The 5:95 ratio is just an example. 
Clearly, Mission Zero is a journey and as for any journey it starts with a 
single step. Examples of first steps would be to be able to educate 1 student 
for free and for the graduates to be able to create 1 job. When it is put in this
way, it does not sound as daunting. Achieving Mission Zero requires, above 
all, the presence of entrepreneurial academic staff, and as this may sound 
oxymoron, believe me this species does exist! As a matter of fact, I think such 
academics are yearning for compelling ideas to drive them. I experience that 
first hand when I interview academics applying for jobs and I see their eyes
lit the moment I explained Mission Zero. 
14.4 
Engineering a Culture Change: Happiness Index 
The Kingdom of Bhutan is a small country in the Himalayas. While nations 
traditionally measure their performance using the Gross Domestic Product 
(GDP), former king of Bhutan, King Jigme Singye Wangchuck wanted for his 
country to measure the quality of life in more complete terms using what he 
called the Gross National Happiness (GNH), striking a balance between the 
spiritual and material needs.  
Last year, on a planning retreat with the senior management team of our
university, we were asked to develop strategies to be implemented to 
improve the experience of our various stakeholders. Inspired by the GNH, I 
proposed to develop the GIHI (Gross Institutional Happiness Index), a 
composite index that measures how balanced our experience is. To add a 
dramatic effect, I also proposed that we rename our title of Vice Chancellor 
to the CHO (Chief Happiness Officer). 
GNH of Bhutan measures 9 domains and they can be adapted to 
education as shown in the table below. We started collecting the data to create 
our GIHI and interestingly, few months into the process, the Star newspaper 
quoted the Second Finance Minister of Malaysia, Datuk Seri Ahmad Husni 
Mohamad Hanadzlah, saying, "For decades, the progress of the nation has 
been popularly measured by the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). However, 
the GDP is inadequate to measure the well-being of the nation and a new
approach to measure well-being effectively is required." He said this in his
opening remarks before chairing the 2014 Budget Focus Group Meeting on 
"Developing A Malaysian Happiness Index: Work-Life Balance." 
Clearly, academic institutions have a unique opportunity to lead the 
society in promoting holistic human development, which seems to be a 
pressing need in this complex and rapidly changing world we are living in. 
Domains of the Gross National Happiness Index 
GNHI
1 
Psychological well-being 
2 
Health 
3 
Time use 
4 
Education
5 
Cultural diversity and resilience 
6 
Good Governance 
7 Community vitality 
8 
Ecological diversity and resilience
9 
Living standards 
GIHI
Emotional well-being
Health and Safety 
Time use 
Learning and Staff Development 
Cultural diversity and resilience 
Good Governance 
Community vitality 
Sustainability
Living standards 
Outlining the different indicators for each domain is beyond the scope 
of this chapter and if you are interested in getting more information on our 
experience measuring the Happiness Index and/or collaborating in this effort, 
please get in touch. 
Epilogue 
Epilogue 
An Invitation 
"If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together." 
African proverb
Although the book is entitled "Think Like an Engineer," it is essentially about
systematic thinking. It deals with engineering from the wider sense of the 
word, a word that is a synonymous with ingenuity and the ability to come up
with creative and innovative solutions to unlock and enhance value. The book 
is also concerned with the holistic development of individuals and societies 
and the fulfilment of the human potential. 
It is written as a practical guide to students and practitioners interested 
in improving how they think and learn. At the same time, the book is also 
tries to address some of the needs of educators and policy makers by helping 
them utilise a framework that can sustain a culture change, and the language 
that can be used to inspire others and communicate the vision. 
Brain Rewiring, Opportunity Notes, banning the P-Word, Return-onFailure, Happiness Index and Mission Zero are some of the initiatives that we
use in the ongoing attempt to reimagine education. These initiatives continue 
to unfold as we speak and my hope is that these experiments will encourage
you to implement initiatives at your school, home or workplace and measure
their effectiveness so that we can have more alternatives to work with as we 
go on trying to make the world a better place by investing in the most
important capital, the human capital. 
I hereby issue an open invitation to everyone to get in touch, comment, 
share, and discuss any matter in relation to the topics addressed in this book. 
You can always reach me through my website: 
www.thinklikeanengineer.org 
Dream Big, Be Different and Have Fun!
Index 
5 Whys, 210, 213 
awareness, 2, 13, 30, 45-48, 53-54, 58, 
63, 151, 180
ABC, 99
abundance, 62, 101
abundant, 13 
achievement, 3, 44, 47, 49, 51, 106, 
120, 125, 168
ACID, 94
adaptability, 44, 49
adaptable, 23
adaptive, 83
aeronautical, 5
aeroplane, 7-8
Aerospace, 121
aesthetics, 101
affective, 47, 150-151 
affordability, 101 
affordance, 94, 100,128
Africa, 61
agriculture, 10, 14
Airbus, 6-7
aircrafts, 112
airframe, 7 
airline, 8, 79-80, 180, 186
airlines, 111, 180, 186-187
Amazon, 77
analytical, 24
anthropometric, 132
anthropometry, 132-133
AoN, 167
APA, 148
architecture, 37, 94, 97
artefact, 67, 155
auditory, 19
automobile, 221 
automotive, 178 
avionics, 7
avoidance, 101
Bible, 11
biology, 19-20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 
34, 36, 38, 40, 53, 126, 150
biomedical, 5, 15 
Biomimicry, 89
Blattaria, 32
Blendtec, 140-141 
Blue Ocean Strategy, 78-82, 215 
BoM, 98-99, 102 
Bozan, Tony 71
brain, 3, 6, 15-16, 19-28, 30-32, 34-36, 
38-40, 42, 44-45, 49-50, 53, 67, 71, 89, 
140, 143, 220
Brain Rewiring, 30-31, 49-50, 196, 217, 
220, 222, 228
Brainology, 19-20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 
32, 34, 36, 38, 40
brainstorming, 71-72, 90, 215
Brimo, Adam 189-190 
Business Plan, 182-183 
CDIO, 3, 5-9, 20, 30, 34-35, 42, 69-70, 
CDIO, 3, 5-9, 20, 30, 34-35, 42, 69-70, 

125, 145, 159, 175, 184, 220
checklist, 107, 111-114 
Christensen, Clayton 186 
Chunking, 39 
Cirque du Soleil, 81-82
civilisation, 4, 10, 16, 67, 83
classification, 31-32, 73, 171
classifying, 31-32, 34, 172
cockroach, 31-32 
cognitive, 10, 25, 35-36, 43-44, 136, 
150-151 
Cognitive Ergonomics, 133 
collaborate, 172, 217
collaborating, 26, 172, 227
collaboration, 44-45, 58
collaborative, 150 
commodity, 184, 186-187
communication, 12, 15, 26, 44, 55, 58, 
63, 118, 137-138, 140-142, 144, 146, 
148-152, 154, 156, 158, 168-169, 172, 
175, 222
complexity, 5, 36, 110, 160-162 
complexity, 5, 36, 110, 160-162 

70, 72, 74, 76, 78, 80, 82-84, 86, 88, 90, 
92, 115, 118, 137, 155, 175, 184, 220
concrete, 138, 141, 143-144
Configuration, 95 
Configuration Design, 94, 96-97 
Create, 2, 12, 27-28, 36, 39, 46, 67-69, 
78-81, 113, 127, 138, 148, 173-174, 176, 
180-181, 187-188, 191, 200, 202, 209, 
211-212, 219, 226-227 
Critical Thinking, 3, 9, 36, 44
Crossing the Chasm, 185
Crowdfunding, 195
Crowdfunding, 195

226, 228
cyberspace, 15-16 
Design Optimisation, 99
Design Process, 54, 94-95, 126-128 
designer, 6, 53-54, 89, 97-101, 138 
desirable, 9, 91, 101, 178, 184
Detailed Design, 94, 98
Disruptive Innovation, 186-187 
Drucker, Peter 159, 173
Dweck, Carol 20
ecological, 37, 227 
economical, 7, 13, 94, 115, 212
economically, 9, 91, 101, 110
ecosystem, 179, 182, 188, 225
Edison, 19, 198, 201
efficiency, 14, 89
Einstein, 13, 39, 67, 198
Eliminate, 78, 80-81, 207
Elliot, 25-26
E-mail, 148
E-mail, 148

46, 48-50, 52, 54-56, 58, 60, 62, 64, 66, 
70, 156, 216-219, 221-223
emotions, 21, 24, 42, 44-46, 48, 53-54, 
142, 144, 149, 151, 217, 222-223 
empathy, 42, 53-54, 70, 151
enterprise, 55 
entertainment, 16, 81, 142
entrepreneur, 26, 173-177, 181-182, 
187, 191, 194-196, 220
entrepreneurial, 173-176, 180, 182, 
184, 193-194, 218, 220, 226
Entrepreneurial Ecosystem, 178-183 
entrepreneurialism, 44
entrepreneurialism, 44

180, 182, 184, 186, 188, 190, 192-196, 
200, 216-220
EPIC Homes, 55-57 
ergonomic, 26, 155 
ergonomically, 133 
Ergonomics, 126, 128, 130, 132, 134, 
136 
ERIC, 78-80, 191 
evolution, 10, 30, 85-88, 115, 153-154, 
186 
evolutionary, 3, 9, 94-95, 191
Facebook, 55, 83, 88, 131, 157
failure, 2, 7, 29-30, 37, 59, 61, 100, 115, 
128, 145, 188, 191, 196, 198, 200-207, 
221 
feasibility, 160
feasible, 9, 91, 101, 160
feedback, 28-30, 96-97, 126, 128-130, 
185, 191, 200-201 
financers, 182 
Fishbone Diagram, 210, 213
Forming, 21, 40, 104, 154-155
FMRI, 21
Gantt Chart, 162-164 
GDP, 226-227
GIHI, 226-227
Gladwell, Malcolm 27, 138
Global Entrepreneurship, 219
GNH, 226-227
GNHI, 227
Goleman, Daniel 42-43, 45-46, 49, 53
Gross Domestic Product, 226-227 
Gross Institutional Happiness Index, 
226 
Gross National Happiness, 226-227 
habits, 9, 20, 22-23, 27-28, 32-35, 50, 
173 
habitually, 137
happiness, 29, 34, 38, 45, 58, 174, 217, 
226-228 
hardware, 20, 98, 104-106
hardwired, 19-20, 24
hardwiring, 27 
HATI, 192
HATI, 192

217, 227-228
Holistic Education, 42, 44, 216-219, 
223 
Human Centred Design, 126, 128, 130, 
132, 134, 136
humankind, 12-13, 69
ideation, 69, 71, 74, 76, 89-90
IDEO, 126
ikea, 111, 149-150 
Implement, 3, 5, 8-9, 16, 27, 34, 72, 
104, 106, 108, 115, 137, 155, 161, 175, 
184, 194, 220, 228 
implementation, 7, 104, 113, 118, 163, 
175 
Increase, 51-52, 71, 78-80, 85, 100, 159, 
168, 177, 198, 210, 212
infrastructure, 16, 115
infrastructure, 16, 115

174, 176, 178, 180, 182, 184, 186-188, 
190-192, 194, 196, 200
innovative, 14, 26, 49-50, 56, 72, 78, 88, 
111, 174-175, 177-178, 188, 200, 219, 
228 
innovator, 173, 185, 186, 188, 201, 219
INSEAD, 78
inspiration, 89
inspirational, 29, 58-59
integrated, 7, 42, 44, 90, 93, 95, 106, 
151-152, 176, 218 
Integrated Design, 94, 98
intellectual, 9, 34, 53, 81, 91, 98, 145, 
181, 200, 225
intelligence, 43, 67, 106, 137
intention, 77, 225 
intentional, 4, 22-23, 27, 36, 38, 69, 127
intentionally, 6, 50
IQ, 43-44
Joffres, Kal 191-192 
Kahneman, Daniel 35, 134-135
Kelly, David 34, 126
kickstarter, 194
Kim, W. Chan 78 
Kohlieser, George 63 
leader, 13, 29, 34, 55, 58-61, 71, 117, 
120, 146, 152-153, 173
leadership, 55, 58-59, 121, 154-155, 178
Lean Entrepreneurship, 191, 194 
Lean Startup, 191, 193
learner, 16, 21, 28, 151, 201
lifecycle, 3, 184-185, 187
logbook, 145
management, 5-6, 12, 57-59, 81, 104, 
management, 5-6, 12, 57-59, 81, 104, 

170, 176, 226
170, 176, 226

160, 162, 164, 166, 168, 170, 172 
Mann, Darrell 71 
Manoeuvrability, 164
manufacturability, 91, 98, 100
marketability, 184 
Massive Online Open Course, 220
mastery, 23, 27-29, 69, 138, 174, 198
Mauborgne, Renée 78
measurement, 43, 107, 132-133, 219
media, 13, 34, 61, 128, 165, 180, 190
medication, 37
mentor, 30 
Mesopotamia, 10 
methodology, 82, 147, 150, 214 
Middle Brain, 24, 44, 46, 142
mindset, 2, 5, 19-20, 26-30, 36, 38, 42, 
69, 173-174, 200, 217
mission, 50-52, 58, 65, 183
Mission Zero, 224-226, 228
MOOC, 16, 43, 55, 64, 173, 194, 217, 
216-221, 223
multidisciplinary, 5, 104, 137, 155 
myelin, 22-23, 27, 30-31, 50
myelinate, 26
myelinated, 23
myelination, 23, 31
Network Diagram, 166-167, 170 
neuron, 21-23, 27-28, 30-31, 50, 53
neuroscience, 22, 25
New Brain, 24-25, 32, 44, 141
NGOs, 191-193
Norming, 154-155 
Operate, 3, 5, 8-9, 11, 16, 27, 29, 34, 
100, 102, 110-116, 118, 120, 122, 124, 
127, 130-131, 137, 151, 155, 161, 175, 
178, 182, 184, 220 
optimisation, 98
optimise, 106
optimism, 49-50 
optimistic, 20, 174 
optimum, 115, 203 
Orang Asli, 55-56 
Organisation chart, 152-153, 183 
outliers, 27
overdesign, 100 
Panasonic, 215 
Panzer, 214
paradigm, 29, 69-70, 174
passion, 2, 196, 219
PDM, 167
performance, 20, 27, 29-30, 81, 89, 94, 
106, 156, 170, 173, 176, 184, 186-187, 
191, 198, 200-203, 226
Performing, 15, 21, 23, 27, 42, 47, 50, 
70, 78, 87, 97, 113, 133, 154-155, 168, 
222 
personalisation, 16, 88
Picasso, 138-139 
Piketty,Thomas 224 
pitchin, 194 
Polaroid, 97-98
positivity, 196
pozible, 194-195 
presentation, 143-144 
project based, 122, 225
Project Based Learning, 2 
proposal, 34, 144, 162, 164
Oei,John-Son 55-56 
Old Brain, 24, 44, 140
openlearning, 190, 219
Random Entry, 74-77, 215
recyclability, 98
recyclable, 101
Reduce, 9, 15, 78, 80, 85-86, 90-91, 168, 
204, 225
redundancy, 100 
relationship, 42, 45-47, 50, 52, 58,122, 
131, 142, 152, 161, 178, 181, 223 
Relationship Management, 45, 58
reliability, 90-91, 100, 107
reliable, 7, 124
renewing, 47 
reptilian, 24
requirements, 7, 17, 69-70, 83, 94-95, 
97-99, 106-107, 115, 159, 169, 184, 222, 
225 
resilience, 217, 227 
resilient, 42, 174 
Return on Failure, 191, 198, 200, 202, 
204, 206
revenue, 81, 180-181, 225
rewire, 196, 220 
rewired, 49 
rewiring, 27 
Risk Management, 168 
Root Cause Analysis, 210
Rumsfeld, Donald 204
SaniShop, 61
sanitation, 14, 61, 175
satisfaction, 159-161, 169-170, 196, 
214, 217
scalable, 191
Segway, 187-188 
Self Management, 45, 48-49, 223 
Self Assessment, 47
Self Awareness, 42, 46
Shakespeare, 19
shareholder, 167-177 
Sim, Jack 61-62
simulation, 98, 138, 143
Sinek, Simon 29 
Social Awareness, 45, 53, 57, 63, 223
SOPs, 212
Stakeholders Management, 170 
stimuli, 19-20, 24, 26, 43-44, 48-49 
Storming, 54, 154-155 
subsystem, 7, 37, 94-95, 97, 107 
subtasks, 166
SUCCES, 138
success, 2, 20, 28-30, 34, 38, 43, 45, 53, 
59, 64, 70, 118, 124, 137-138, 142, 144, 
59, 64, 70, 118, 124, 137-138, 142, 144, 

170, 172-173, 178, 182, 198, 200-205, 
216-219, 221-223 
SWOT, 47-48, 58
System Architecture, 94-96
systematic, 3-4, 9, 34-35, 69, 90, 124, 
191, 209, 220, 228 
systematically, 5, 44, 90, 214
systemic, 36
tactile, 19
Taleb, Nassim Nicholas 204
Tandemic, 191-192 
Taylor's Racing Team, 107, 116-121, 
151 
teamwork, 7, 26, 45, 58, 137-138, 140, 
142, 144, 146, 148, 150, 152, 154, 156, 
158 
Tesla, 4 
Trend Recognition, 82
trimming, 77, 215 
Tuckman Model, 153-154
Twitter, 88
uncertainty, 75, 204
Value, 3, 5, 9, 12, 15, 27-28, 49, 52, 69, 
78-81, 90-91, 93, 124, 152, 156, 168, 
78-81, 90-91, 93, 124, 152, 156, 168, 

212, 214-215, 218-219, 225, 228 
Verification, 106 
viability, 204
viable, 9, 52, 55, 91, 101
Viagra, 205 
vision, 29, 50-51, 58-60, 183, 219, 224, 
228 
Vodafail, 190
Vodafone, 189-190 
Vujicic, Nick 68
Wagner, Tony 44 
Warner, Jim 46
Warner, Jim 46

165 
WD, 198-199
wellbeing, 218
WMSDs, 133
WTO, 61















