















Transmit Receive Modules for Radar and Communication Systems







For a complete listing of titles in the
Artech House Radar Series,
turn to the back of this book.







Transmit Receive Modules for Radar and Communication Systems
Rick Sturdivant
Mike Harris








Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
A catalog record for this book is available from the U.S. Library of Congress.
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.
Cover design by John Gomes
ISBN 13: 978-1-60807-979-7
© 2016 ARTECH HOUSE
685 Canton Street
Norwood, MA 02062
All rights reserved. Printed and bound in the United States of America. No part of this book may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publisher.
All terms mentioned in this book that are known to be trademarks or service marks have been appropriately capitalized. Artech House cannot attest to the accuracy of this information. Use of a term in this book should not be regarded as affecting the validity of any trademark or service mark.







This book is dedicated to my wife Linda, and our daughters, Michelle and Amanda
—Mike Harris
This book is dedicated to my wife Jonie and our children, Lauren and Jeremy
—Rick Sturdivant







Contents
Preface
Acknowledgments
1Phased Arrays
1.1Phased Arrays in Radar and Communication Systems
1.2Antennas
1.3Antenna Patterns and Line Arrays
1.4Electronically Steerable Antennas
1.5Radar Equation for Targets
1.6Radar Equation for Weather
1.7Phased Arrays for Communication Systems
1.8Conclusions
Problems
References
2Transmit/Receive Modules
2.1Introduction to Transmit/Receive Modules
2.2Early T/R Module Development Efforts
2.3MMIC-Based T/R Modules
2.4T/R Module Performance Requirements
2.5T/R Module Components
2.5.1Transmit/Receive Switches
2.5.2Phase Shifter
2.5.3Attenuators
2.5.4Core Chip
2.5.5Driver Amplifier
2.5.6Power Amplifier
2.5.7Circulator or Duplexer
2.5.8Limiter or Receive Protect Circuit
2.5.9Low-Noise Amplifier
2.6Module Control and Power Conditioning
2.7Conclusions
Problems
References
3Semiconductors for T/R Modules
3.1Introduction
3.2Semiconductor Materials
3.2.1GaAs
3.2.2Heterostructures
3.2.3SiC
3.2.4GaN
3.2.5InP
3.2.6SiGe
3.3RF Semiconductor Wafer Fabrication Processes
3.3.1Isolation
3.3.2Ohmic Contacts
3.3.3Gate Formation
3.3.4Dielectric Deposition
3.3.5Electroplating
3.3.6Air Bridges
3.4Active Devices
3.4.1GaAs MESFETs
3.4.2GaAs PHEMTs
3.4.3GaN HEMTs
3.5MMICs
3.6Conclusions
Problems
References
4Signal Integrity Issues in T/R Modules
4.1Introduction to Signal Integrity
4.2Chip-Level Interconnects
4.2.1Wire Bonding Methods
4.2.2Wire Bond Modeling
4.2.3Flip-Chip Methods
4.3Package/Module-Level Interconnect
4.3.1Module Interconnects
4.3.2SMT Package Interconnects
4.4Transmission Line Interconnects
4.5Coupling Between Interconnects
4.6Vertical Transition Interconnects
4.7Module Resonances
4.8Conclusions
Problems
References
5Materials for T/R Modules
5.1Introduction to Materials
5.2Electrical Parameters and Their Measurement
5.2.1Dielectric Constant
5.2.2Loss Tangent
5.2.3Measurement of Dielectric Constant and Loss Tangent
5.2.4Metal Electrical Conductivity
5.3Mechanical Parameters
5.3.1Thermal Conductivity
5.4Ceramic Materials
5.4.1Thin-Film Ceramic
5.4.2Thick-Film Ceramic
5.4.3Thermally Enhanced Thick-Film Processes
5.4.4High-Temperature Co-Fired Ceramic (HTCC)
5.4.5Low-Temperature Co-Fired Ceramic (LTCC) Materials
5.5Laminate Packaging
5.5.1Laminate Board Fabrication
5.5.2High-Performance Laminate Materials
5.5.3Liquid Crystal Polymers
5.5.4MCM-L Laminate Multichip Modules
5.6Conclusions
Problems
References
6Heat Issues and Solutions for T/R Modules
6.1Introduction to Thermal Issues and Solutions
6.2Heat Flux in MMIC High-Power Amplifiers
6.3Amplifier Efficiency and Dissipated Thermal Power
6.4Thermal Resistance and Device Junction Temperature
6.5Example of Heat Dissipated by Components in a T/R Module
6.6Reliability Calculations
6.7Diamond-Enhanced GaN High-Power Amplifiers for T/R Modules
6.8Thermal Simulations Using SPICE
6.9Thermal Measurements
6.9.1Electrical Test Methods
6.9.2Optical Methods
6.9.3Temperature Measurements Using Liquid Crystal Thermography
6.9.4Thermal Design Using Surrogate Validation Chips
6.10Conclusions
Problems
References
7MMIC Fabrication and T/R Module Manufacturing
7.1Introduction
7.2MMIC Fabrication
7.2.1MMIC Facilities
7.2.2MMIC Fabrication Processes
7.2.3MMIC Foundry Procedures
7.3T/R Module Manufacturing
7.3.1T/R Module Manufacturing Facilities
7.3.2T/R Module Manufacturing Processes
7.4Conclusions
Problems
References
8Testing of MMICs and T/R Modules
8.1Introduction to Testing
8.2MMIC Testing
8.2.1Incoming Materials Testing
8.2.2In-Process Testing
8.2.3On-Wafer RF Testing
8.2.4MMIC Screening Tests
8.2.5MMIC Reliability Testing
8.3T/R Module Specifications
8.4T/R Module Testing
8.4.1Key Electrical Parameters
8.4.2Example of Key Parameter Requirements on an X-Band T/R Module
8.4.3Automated Electrical Test Set
8.5Conclusions
Problems
References
9MMIC and T/R Module Cost
9.1Introduction
9.2MMIC Cost
9.2.1MMIC Wafer Fabrication Cost
9.2.2Wafer Fabrication Process Yield
9.2.3Wafer Diameter Impact on MMIC Cost
9.2.4Impact of MMIC Fabrication Facility Loading on Cost
9.2.5MMIC Cost Based on Area or Output Power
9.3T/R Module Cost
9.4Cost Reduction
9.4.1MMIC Cost Reduction
9.4.2T/R Module Cost Reduction
9.5Conclusions
Problems
References
10Next-Generation T/R Modules
10.1Introduction
10.2Single-Chip T/R Module
10.3Wafer-Scale Phased Array
10.4Si-CMOS: The Lowest-Cost Single-Chip T/R
10.5Digital Beamforming
10.6Hybrid Digital/Analog Beam Forming
10.7Switch Beam and Butler Matrix Phased Arrays
10.8Highly Integrated Packaging of T/R Modules
10.9Path to Low-Cost Systems: Open Architectures
10.10Conclusions
Problems
References
About the Authors
Index







Preface
Transmit/receive (T/R) modules are the key components in active electronically scanned arrays (AESAs) for radar and communications applications. T/R modules are circuits that provide system advantages in both transmit and receive by reducing front end losses. The system noise figure is set and the RF power is generated at the aperture front-end using T/R modules. This results in increased system sensitivity over passive arrays. Other advantages include weight reduction and prime power reduction for equivalent system sensitivity. The single-point failure of the radar or communication system is eliminated by the redundancy that an AESA provides.
Rapid advances in AESAs were made as a result of the maturation of compound semiconductors that provide better performance at high frequencies than silicon. Major defense acquisition programs pioneered the development of AESAs even though risks were higher than using a traditional tube-based approach.
Significant research and development results have been published over the past 25 to 30 years on power amplifiers, low noise amplifiers, and other RF components that make up the RF chipset in T/R modules. However, no comprehensive treatment of the subject of T/R modules has been published until now.
In this book, we have condensed 30 years of applied research and development of RF front-end technologies. We were motivated, in part, to write it as a result of a professional education course that we taught on the subject of T/R modules. Comprehensive treatment of T/R modules is presented in this book through topics that include: an introduction to phased arrays in radar and communication systems, T/R modules and module components, monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMICs), T/R module packaging, RF interconnect materials, thermal management for T/R modules, MMIC and T/R module manufacturing, testing, module cost, and next-generation T/R modules.
Chapter 1 presents the system level knowledge required for T/R modules. It explains the methods used to calculate signal to noise ratio for radar point targets, weather radar, and communication systems. This allows for system level trade off of transmitted power, receive noise figure and other items that determine T/R module specifications.
Chapter 2 presents the components that make up T/R modules. Every element in the RF chain within the T/R module is discussed in detail and its key performance characteristics enumerated. Each RF component is covered in a logical progression through the transmit chain and the receive chain. A gain/loss budget analysis is presented and practical exercises are included to enrich the learning experience and to show the interdependence of the RF components and the trade-offs that must be considered.
Chapter 3 focuses on MMICs, which are the most important and most expensive components making up T/R modules. Starting materials for the MMICs are critical to obtain the desired RF performance so extensive details of how these materials are grown are presented. Bandgap engineering that overcomes conflicting electronic properties is fully explained. Gallium nitride (GaN), currently the most promising material technology for power amplifiers, is discussed in depth.
Chapters 4 and 5 show the electronic packaging issues and materials issues. The knowledge about packaging required for successful realization of T/R modules is presented. We also show how proper choice of materials is required and how to apply a process flow for it. This will allow designers and managers to make optimized choices about interconnect, transitions, materials, and other packaging concerns.
Chapter 6 presents heat flow. We present the know-how required to successfully calculate heat dissipation, junction temperate, and mean time to failure for electronic components in T/R modules.
Chapter 7 reveals how MMIC and T/R module manufacturing is an enormous undertaking that requires a long-term vison and commitment. Both are driven by the desire for high-yield, few defects per million opportunities, and Six Sigma methodologies. Manufacturing processes and process control monitoring are addressed in detail.
Chapter 8 presents the necessary information on manufacturing T/R modules and its components. MMICs are made in a batch process and many possible good die are made at the same time. Modules are assembled with automated work cells and rates may be on the order of 5,000 per month or more. Automated in-process and final testing are essential and are discussed in this book.
Chapter 9 focuses on cost. Once T/R module performance is verified and module reliability is proven, the focus quickly turns to cost reduction. This book addresses the complex topic of T/R module cost and breaks down the cost factors and discusses how module cost can be reduced.
Finally, Chapter 10 analyzes next-generation T/R modules and covers a wide range of technologies that will impact future T/R modules and AESAs in general. Most of the current T/R modules are hermetic metal modules with ceramic substrates. This will change in the near future due to several contributing factors that we discuss. Widespread availability of silicon germanium (SiGe) and silicon-complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (Si-CMOS) integrated circuit processes that support operation into millimeter-wave frequencies offer the potential to produce T/R channels at a cost that is 100 to 1,000 times lower than is possible using traditional methods. Cost reduction will come with performance tradeoffs, to be sure. However, this does not negate the impact that SiGe and Si-CMOS IC processes will have on near-term and future T/R modules and AESAs.
In summary, this book details with all aspects of T/R modules for communications and defense radar applications. It contains enough information for a one-semester senior or graduate-level course. This book is ideally suited for program managers that must make key decisions regarding technology for their radar products. It can be used by practicing engineers and technology professionals working in phased array technologies. This text is particularly well suited as a reference for a 3-day to 5-day professional education course.
Many individuals have been involved in guiding our careers and positioning us to write this book. Mike Harris is truly indebted to Walter Cox, Charlie Rucker, Earl Meeks, John Amoss, and Jerry Hill for their encouragement and mentoring during his early microwave career. Colleagues who we have met through the IEEE Microwave Theory and Techniques Society have inspired us with their breakthroughs and innovations that advanced the microwave field in general. Finally, we appreciate the support and patience of our wives Linda Harris and Jonie Sturdivant throughout the preparation of this book.
Rick Sturdivant
Fullerton, CA
Mike Harris
Atlanta, GA







Acknowledgments
We thank Marissa Koors, development editor at Artech House, for her help in managing the book writing and review process. We also thank our employers for their patience while we wrote this book. Most of all, we thank our wives for being patient and understanding during the late evenings and weekends of writing and editing.
In addition, Rick Sturdivant thanks all the excellent engineers with whom he has worked over the years, especially the team at the Solid State Microwave Laboratory at Hughes Aircraft Company.
Mike Harris thanks all of the outstanding RF engineers in the radar industry with whom he has worked over the years. He extends special thanks to Matthew King, Christopher Howard, and Virginia Myers at the Georgia Tech Research Institute for their support and encouragement.







1
Phased Arrays
1.1 Phased Arrays in Radar and Communication Systems
Phased arrays are used in both radar and communication systems. Clearly, the first widespread use of phased arrays was in military radar systems. Phased arrays have also been used in weather radar and for commercial air traffic control. More recently, phased arrays have been finding use in communication systems such in satellites, and for ground based SATCOM for nongeostationary satellite communication.
A phased array is a system that uses a multitude of individual antenna elements that each have phase control. The phase control allows the antenna radiation pattern to be scanned electronically to track targets or to maintain a communications link.
Generally speaking, there are two types of electronically scanned phased arrays. The first is the passive electronically scanned array (PESA) and a block diagram of it is illustrated in Figure 1.1(a). It shows a centralized high-power amplifier and low-noise amplifier with phase shift elements located at each of the antennas in the array. The phase shifters are typically realized using ferrite garnet material placed within a waveguide. These types of phase shifters are highly reliable but expensive to manufacture [1]. However, they can handle the high-power levels generated by the high-power amplifier. One drawback to this approach is the time that it takes the ferrite to change states. An example of a PESA is the AN/SPS-48 shown in Figure 1.1(b). It is a used for air search and is shown mounted on the Nimitz-class supercarrier U.S.S. Theodore Roosevelt.
Contrasting the PESA with the active electronically scanned array (AESA), a block diagram is illustrated in Figure 1.2(a). It shows that each antenna element has its own transmit/receive T/R module which contains the high power amplifier, low noise amplifier, phase shifter, and a variable gain amplifier. The phase shifters in an AESA are low power because they exist before the HPA. This means that many options exist for the realization of the phase shifter. The phase shifters are normally realized using diode or field effect transistor (FET) switches, which toggle between a nominal phase state and the desired phase. The AESA array is able to change from transmit to receive state and to change phase state very rapidly. An example of an AESA is shown in Figure 1.2(b). It shows the AN/APG-79 radar, which is used on the U.S. Navy F/A-18E/F fighter plane.


Figure 1.1 (a) One type of electronically scanned arrays is the passive electronically scanned array (PESA), which has a centrally located high-power amplifier (HPA) and low-noise amplifier (LNA); and (b) an example is the AN/SPS-48 radar shown on the U.S.S. Theodore Roosevelt (CVN-71).

This book focuses on describing T/R modules used in AESAs. For radar applications, AESAs offer significant performance improvement over competing methods such as:
1.The ability to form multiple simultaneous antenna beams;
2.The ability to have improved efficiency since the losses between the HPA and radiator can be much lower for an AESA compared to a PESA;


Figure 1.2 (a) One type of electronically scanned arrays is the active electronically scanned array, which uses transmit/receive (T/R) modules at each antenna element, and (b) an example is the AN/APG-79 AESA used on the U.S. Navy F/A-18E/F fighter plane. (Image courtesy of the Raytheon Company, Waltham, Massachusetts.)

3.The capability of using various parts of the array to perform functions such as subarray beamforming to create multiple simultaneous beams;
4.The array-level reliability benefit of graceful degradation as T/R module failures occur.
The ability to form multiple, simultaneous beams means that the radar can simultaneously track multiple targets. This is very useful to applications such as airborne platforms where the target may include other air planes, missiles, and ground targets. For instance, the APG-79 radar is used on multiple platforms and is able to generate high resolution synthetic aperture radar (SAR) mapping of ground targets [2]. Part of the reason for the improved performance capabilities in the APG-79 radar is that it is built from many smaller subarrays. Each subarray is made from many transmit/receive (T/R) modules and each sub array can be configure to perform a distinct function.
To understand the usefulness of phased arrays for ground-based satellite communication (SATCOM), it is helpful to first contrast it with communication to geospatial satellites. The familiar satellite television (TV) systems use reflector antennas that are aligned to the satellite and fixed in position. This is possible because the satellite is geostationary, which means that it is fixed in a particular location above the surface of the earth. For systems where the satellite is nongeostationary (which means it moves across the sky in orbit around the Earth), the ground antenna must track the position of the satellite as it passes by. In this case, the ground station can mechanically move the antenna and there are many commercial systems that use mechanical scanning. However, mechanical movement can have reliability issues and are bulky (volume) and heavy (weight). For many systems, a more attractive option is to use an electronically scanned phased array.
Another example of how phased arrays can be useful for satellite TV reception is systems where the satellite is geostationary but the receiver is moving. An example is for automotive or marine applications where an automobile or ship is in motion but the satellite is fixed. The receiver must track the satellite and electronically scanned phased arrays are very attractive for this application.
Phased arrays are also useful for terrestrial communication systems such as small cell networks. The function they provide is to steer the antenna to minimize interference with nearby cell access points and they allow the antenna pattern to be dynamically modified to optimize user experience. This is important for some self-organizing networks (SON) approaches.
Phased arrays also provide the ability for terrestrial back-haul networks such as point-to-point systems to be installed without the need for costly alignment procedures. Fixed beam antennas are often manually aligned so that their antenna pattern points to their connection point. Phased arrays can also benefit point-to-point systems by allowing automatic realignment.
In each of these examples, phased arrays are being used and considered for use in radar and communication systems. They either enhance functionality or are a key enabling technology. Without transmit receive (T/R) modules, AESAs would not be possible.
In this chapter, we introduce AESAs and the top-level analysis of systems that use them. We will start with an introduction to antennas and antenna arrays. We will then show how the radiation pattern of an antenna can be electronically scanned. With that foundation, we will discuss some of system-level simulations for radar for both tracking and weather. We will then show how to model a communications link. The ability to perform top-level system analysis is important since T/R modules form the heart of a phased array and designers must understand the fundamentals of those systems. With the information in this chapter and the rest of the book, it will be possible for a designer to develop a full system-level simulation of an AESA that includes the details of the T/R module and fold that up into a system simulation of the carrier-to-noise ratio (C/N) or signal-to-noise ratio (S/N). Our starting point is antennas.
1.2 Antennas
Antennas are used to radiate electromagnetic energy such as radio, Wi-Fi, and radar signals. The simplest antennas are formed from wire of the right size and position. Theoretically, simple wire antennas can be used at any frequency, although they are common below 30 MHz. However, antennas can also be very complex formed by using printed circuit board methods, metal rods, and machined metal. For instance, airborne radar antennas frequently use flared notch radiators as the antenna at each element in the array. They are fabricated using computer controlled multi-axis machines. Although antennas can take many different physical configurations, it is possible to develop a generalized analysis method for phased arrays.
1.3 Antenna Patterns and Line Arrays
One goal in analyzing antennas is to understand the characteristics of the electromagnetic energy that they radiate. Specifically, it is important to know the spatial radiation characteristics. It turns out that only an ideal antenna radiates uniformly in all directions. All practical antennas radiate electromagnetic energy preferentially in some spatial directions rather than others. The measure of the preferential radiation is called directivity. This is even true for simple antennas. The Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) has defined directivity as [3]: "The ratio of the radiation intensity in a given direction from the antenna to the radiation intensity averaged over all directions. Note 1—The average radiation intensity is equal to the total power radiated by the antenna divided by 4π. Note 2—If the direction is not specified, the direction of maximum radiation intensity is implied." This definition can be written as an equation

where U = radiation intensity (W/unit solid angle), Prad = total radiated power (W)
A phased array takes advantage of the ability of an antenna to radiate energy in one direction by using multiple individual elements. A phased array is "an antenna comprised of a number of identical radiating elements in a regular arrangement and excited to obtain a prescribed radiation pattern" [4]. The energy of the individual elements adds to form a radiation pattern that can be changed and controlled.
1.4 Electronically Steerable Antennas
There are many applications where it is desirable to have an antenna that is highly directive and have its radiation pattern modified over time. This is especially true for radar systems since a scanning antenna measures angle. It is also useful for communication systems such as terrestrial high data rate back-haul systems that may need to send data to multiple access points. In these instance, a highly directive antenna with electronic steering can provide important system benefits.
To calculate the far-field antenna patter for a phased array, it is useful to first consider the Principle of Pattern Multiplication, which states that the product of the field for an array of identical antennas is equal to the product of the far field of an individual element and the array factor. That is,

where FT = total far-field radiation pattern, FE = radiation pattern of a single element in the array, and AF = array factor (the antenna array radiation pattern if the real antennas are replaced by ideal isotropic radiators).
Therefore, it is useful to determine the array factor for antennas and use it as a method for the analysis and synthesis of phased arrays. It makes sense to focus on the array factor for initial design efforts since the total far field is essentially what is predicted by the array factor. This is especially true when the array is not scanning since each element in the array typically has a fairly uniform (but not isotropic) radiation pattern. However, as the array is scanned, the contribution from the element begins to be noticeable and must be taken into account.
To demonstrate the usefulness of the array factor, consider the line array antenna shown in Figure 1.3(a). It is a nine-element array of identical elements arranged in a straight line (hence, the name line array). It will have the array factor, AF, shown in Figure 1.3(b). The antenna radiation pattern shows a main beam centered at 0° along the x-axis. In this arrangement the x-axis is also referred to as broadside of the array and the main beam is also called the main lobe. On either side of the main lobe are the first sidelobes, which are at an approximate amplitude of −13 dB relative to the main lobe for the case when each of the antenna elements are excited with the same amplitude. It is possible to use other excitation amplitude and phase at each antenna element, which allows the sidelobe level and overall radiation pattern to be modified to accommodate a wide range of requirements. Many antenna synthesis methods have been developed [5, 6].


Figure 1.3 A simple line array (a) with nine elements, (b) with an antenna pattern showing a main beam at 0°, and (c) with electronic scanning at 20°.

The array pattern in Figure 1.3(b) assumes that the signal level at each element in the array is equal amplitude and equal phase. However, if a progressive phase is added to each of the antenna elements, then the antenna pattern will scan. Figure 1.3(c) shows the same nine-element antenna with equal amplitude and with a progressive phase at each element. The figure shows the array factor scanned 20° from broadside. The antenna radiation pattern for an array with N elements is given by

However, it can be immediately seen that this can be written as

where k = 2π/λ (radians/m), ψ = kdcos θ + β (radians), d = element spacing (m) (refer to Figure 1.3(a)], θ = angle (the independent variable) (radians), and β = linear progressive phase that is added to each element (radians).
If the reference point is moved to the physical center of the array, and if the AF is normalized so that its maximum value is equal to 1, then it is possible to show that

By using (1.5), it is possible to generate the antenna pattern shown in Figure 1.3(b, c). Note that in Figure 1.3(c), the antenna pattern is scanned 20° off of broadside. This was achieved by adding a linear progressive phase, β, to each of the elements.
One of the important performance parameters for a phased array is its 3-dB beamwidth. For a line array or a two-dimensional (2-D) planar array, the beamwidth in either φ or θ can be can be approximated by

where φo = scan angle (where 90° is broadside), λ = wavelength, N = number of elements in the array, d = element spacing, and b = beam broadening factor (assumed to be 1.0 here).
For instance, the 3-dB beamwidth for an array with 32 × 32 elements operating at 9.5 GHz, an element spacing of 2.03 cm, and at 90° scan angle (broadside), the beamwidth is 2.47°.
Once the beamwidth of a phased array is known, it is possible to approximate its gain by considering the antenna beam shown in Figure 1.4(a). Note how the antenna beam sliced at its 3-dB points forms an ellipse with axis diameters traced out by BWθ and BWφ, which are the beamwidth in the θ and φ directions. From this we can find the area of the ellipse formed by the constant 3-dB curve around the antenna main beam as illustrated in Figure 1.4(b). It is



Figure 1.4 Illustration of how the antenna directivity can be calculated using (a) the 3-dB antenna beamwidth and (b) the area of the ellipse that traces out the 3-dB beamwidth around the main beam.

where BWθ = the beamwidth angle along θ, BWφ = the beamwidth angle along φ, r = distance to the 3-dB point of the antenna beam, a = the axis dimension along the φ direction, and b = the axis dimension along the θ direction.
One method for calculating directivity of the antenna is to take the ratio of the area of a sphere to the area of the ellipse, or

Using (1.6) and (1.8), it is possible to determine the beamwidth and directivity of an array.
As an example, consider the same an array from the last example. It resulted in an antenna with a beam width of 2.47°. If we assume that the array is a 2-D array with the same gain in both vertical and horizontal planes, then, using (1.8), the directivity can be found to be 8,614 or 39.35 dB.
Any practical antenna will have inefficiencies due to losses in the metal and dielectric that form the antenna and other sources. For simplicity, the antenna radiation efficiency can be used to account for all antenna losses. In this case, the antenna gain is

Continuing our example, assuming an antenna efficiency of 50%, this yields a gain an anten na gain of 36.34 dB.
1.5 Radar Equation for Targets
Radar functions by first generating a transmit signal that is radiated by an antenna. That radiated signal propagates to a target object and some of the energy is scattered by the target. The fraction of scattering of the target back to the receive antenna is referred to as the radar cross-section. A portion of the signal scattered by target propagates back to the radar receiver antenna and is detected by the electronics in the radar. This situation is illustrated in Figure 1.5. Notice how the target scatters only a small amount of the transmitted signal back in the direction of the radar. Since the receive signal is extremely small, sensitive receivers are used in radar systems. The power level at the receiver can be calculated using the familiar radar equation

where Pr = received power (W), Pt = transmit power (W), Gr = gain of receive antenna, Gt = gain of transmit antenna, and σ = radar cross-section of the target (m2). For radar, units are normally dBsm, σdBsm=10Log10(σ), λ = wavelength of operation (m), and R = range to target (m).
Once the receiver power is known, then it is possible to calculate the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). This is important since a typical radar processing system needs to have a minimum SNR for reliable detection of a target. The SNR can be found from



Figure 1.5 Illustration of a radar system with a target reflecting energy at a distance R.

where Gp = processing gain obtained from large fast Fourier transform (FFT) and integration, kB = Boltzmann's constant = 1.38 × 10−23 (Joules/K), Ts = total noise (background and system noise), and Bn = receiver bandwidth (Hz).
Using (1.10) and (1.11), it is possible to calculate the expected signal-to-noise ratio from a particular target. It is also possible to perform simple trade studies to determine the range and required antenna gain.
As an example, consider a radar with the following parameters:
Operating frequency = 9.5 GHz
Tx power = 400W
Tx antenna gain = Rx antenna gain = 36.34 dB
Target radar cross-section (RCS) = −10 dBsm
Processing gain = 30 dB
Target range = 10 km
Rx noise = 2.5 dB
Rx IF bandwidth = 10 MHz
Antenna temperature = 290K
Using this information and the assumption that the total noise is the receiver noise, it is possible to calculate the receiver SNR from (1.11) to be 17.19 dB. For most systems, this is sufficient margin to detect the radar return.
One reason for this example is that this information can be used to develop specifications for the phased array and T/R modules. For instance, continuing the example used so far in this chapter, it is possible to find the required output power per T/R module using the TX power/number of elements = 400/32 × 32 = 0.39 per element. From this we can choose an appropriate high power amplifier for the system. We also know that the system noise figure is 2.5 dB. From this, we can perform an analysis of the T/R module to determine type of low-noise amplifier that is required. In fact, using this analysis method, it is possible to start a system-level trade analysis and, with the appropriate analysis method at the T/R module (shown later in this book), a detailed top-down and bottom-up trade study is possible.
1.6 Radar Equation for Weather
The radar equation for weather radar takes a different form than for tracking and search radars. Part of the reason for this is that for tracking and search radars the target is an object, but for weather radars the target is a distribution of moisture such as raindrops. This is illustrated in Figure 1.6(a). In this section, we will develop the radar equation for weather radar. We will start with considering an individual water drop, but we will then extend it to a distribution of droplets and consider the average radar cross-section of the system of precipitation.


Figure 1.6 For weather radar, (a) the target is a distribution of precipitation that reflects a portion of the radar signal back toward the receive antenna, and (b) the incident electric field on a single sphere of water generates a dipole moment.

Since an individual droplet of water is much smaller than a wavelength for microwave radar systems, the scattering mechanism is Rayleigh scattering. Consider a weather radar that transmits a signal toward an area with rain precipitation. The electric field of the radar signal can be assumed to be invariant in the vicinity of a particular rain drop particle (i.e., Rayleigh scattering) and it induces an electric field inside the raindrop. This is illustrated in Figure 1.6(b). The field induces a dipole moment in the raindrop since it is a dielectric material. That dipole moment in the rain drop is given by

where p = the dipole moment that is set up in the rain droplet due to the uniform incident field (C-m), εo = dielectric constant of free space (8.854 × 10-12 Farads/m), K = (εr − 1)/(εr + 2), represents the scattering and absorption characteristics of the precipitation, εr = ε/εο = relative dielectric constant = precipitation permittivity/permittivity of free space, D3 = the water or ice particle volume (m3), and Ei = electric field incident on the particle.
The intensity of the scattered electric field at the location of the particle is

By combining (1.12) and (1.13), we obtain

It is helpful to realize that (1.14) is the electric field that is radiated from the electric dipole moment that is set up within the spherical water droplet measured at a distance r from the rain droplet. It is useful if we divide (1.14) by E i and square it to obtain

The reason that it is useful to square the ratio of scattered field to the incident field is that it gives the power flux density. It allows us to substitute this in the equation for radar cross-section.
Radar cross-section is a measure of how well an object can be detected by a radar system. Objects with low radar cross-section are difficult to be seen by a radar since the amount of energy they reflect is low and objects with large radar cross-section are easy to be seen by a radar since they reflect large amounts of energy. The radar cross-section of an object is equal to 4πr2 times the ratio of the reflected power flux density, Sr, to incident power flux density, Sinc, or

Since (Er/Ei)2 is equal to Sr/Sinc, (1.15) can be substituted into (1.16) to give

From this, we can determine the average radar cross section of rain droplets. The term |K |2 in (1.17) represents the scattering and absorption characteristics of the precipitation (rain, snow, sleet, ice). In general, K itself is complex and its real part is associated with the reflecting characteristics of the precipitation while its imaginary part is associated with its absorptive characteristics. As a rule of thumb, |K |2 for water at microwave frequencies is taken to be approximately 0.93, and measurements have been conducted on various types of precipitation.
As one might expect, the radar cross-section of a single droplet of water is difficult to detect. At 10 GHz, a 1-mm diameter droplet of water with |K |2 = 0.93 has a radar cross-section of 3.4 × 10−4 mm2, which can only be detected a close range and very high radar transmit power levels.
Therefore, it is useful that precipitation can be treated as a large reflector of many smaller single droplets. In this case, the average radar cross-section is useful. In this case, we use (1.17) and perform a summation over the distribution of reflectors to obtain

The bar over sigma represents average. If we divide the average radar cross-section by the volume containing the individual reflectors (water drops, instance), then we obtain the average radar reflectivity, which is

The bar over eta represents average, where, for weather radar, the convention is to use the quantity called the radar reflectivity factor

It is important to remember that the units of Z are m6/m3. Most radar displays show Z in decibels, which is given by dBZ = 10 log(Z). It should be emphasized that radar reflectivity, η, is different from radar reflectivity factor, Z.
The goal of this derivation is to develop a radar equation that is valid for weather patterns. The next step, then, is to modify the radar equation (1.10) so that it is valid for distributed targets. After we accomplish this, then we will substitute in the average radar reflectivity. From Figure 1.7, it can be seen that the antenna beam intersects a group of distributed targets in the volume Vc, which is a portion of the cone formed by the radar beam. If the subtended angles of the cone are given by Θ and Φ, and if the radar main beam spatial shape can be represented by a Gaussian function, then it has been found by [8] that the volume of targets is given by


Figure 1.7 An antenna beam will intersect a distributed group of reflectors in a volume, Vc.


where R = distance from the radar antenna to the start of the volume of distributed targets (m), h/2 = the length of the section of the cone that encloses the distributed targets (m), Vc = volume containing the distributed targets (m3), Θ = beamwidth of the antenna beam in one direction, and Φ = beamwidth of the antenna beam in one direction.
It should be noted that (1.21) has the correction of 2 ln(2) in the denominator to account for the Gaussian shape of antenna main beam in the volume, Vc. If we modify (1.10), which is the radar equation for targeting radar, by replacing the radar cross-section, σ, with the average radar cross-section, , then we obtain

Substituting in the volume being sampled from (1.21) into (1.22) and recognizing that the sample volume distance, h, is equal to the velocity of light multiplied by the transit time of the wave through the volume, or h = cτ, we obtain the power at the receiver as

Now, substituting in the equation of average radar reflectivity from (1.19), we obtain

Solving for the radar reflectivity factor, we obtain

And the signal to noise ratio from (1.11) can be modified for the case of a set of distributed reflectors and recognizing that for distributed reflectors  and that, 

The design of an AESA for weather radar applications proceeds along similar lines as a tracking radar. A system-level model is developed that includes a prediction of SNR using (1.26) and a detailed description of the array such as number of elements, receive noise figure, and transmit power per element. Trade analysis and studies are then conducted to obtain the optimum design that meets requirements.
1.7 Phased Arrays for Communication Systems
The most familiar satellite systems use geostationary satellites. These types of satellites reside at fixed position in the sky. In this case, the ground station is a fixed antenna that is aligned to point to the satellite. Once installed, the ground station antenna does not need to change or be moved. The antenna beam points to the same position in space that is the location of the geostationary satellite. The most familiar of these systems is the direct broadcast television dishes that exist on many residential homes around the world. In some mobile systems such as satellite TV to automobiles and military SATCOM On-The-Move (SOTM) systems, a steerable antenna is required to keep the antenna beam pointed at the geostationary satellite.
Alternatives to geostationary satellites are low Earth orbital (LEO), high Earth orbital (HEO), or highly elliptical orbit satellites. These satellites move across the sky, which means that any ground station will need to have the capability of an electronically scanned array to maintain the ground station antenna beam pointing on the satellite.
In order to calculate the satellite communication link, a model must be developed. A communications link is illustrated in Figure 1.8. It can represent a communications link between a ground-based phased array and a communications satellite or it can just as well represent a communications link for a point-to-point radio system. For these types of systems, an important design parameter is the carrier-to-noise ratio (C/N). There are four main parameters that impact the C/N for a satellite link. They are:


Figure 1.8 A communications link between a transmitting and receiving antenna.

1.The transmitted power. It is usually represented as the equivalent isotropic radiated power (EIRP), which is the transmit power delivered to the antenna + passive gain of the antenna. In our system-level calculations, we will be using the units of dBW for the power delivered to the antenna from the transmitter. Therefore, the EIRP is given by

where Pt = transmit power (Watts) and Gt(dB) = transit antenna gain (dB).
2.The link path loss. This is the loss between the transmitting and receiving antennas. Since satellites can be at altitudes of 30,000 km or more, the signal loss is significant and must be taken into account. Even for terrestrial links such as point-to-point systems, the path loss must be taken into account. The path loss is calculated by

where Llink = distance from the transmitter to the receiver (m) and λ = wavelength (m).
3.The receiver G/T. The gain over temperature of the receiver is normally called "G over T." This is a measure of the receiver's gain and noise temperature. The noise contributions are from two parts which are the receive antenna noise temperature and from the receiver system noise figure (converted to noise temperature). The antenna noise is from the noise power the antenna collects from its electromagnetic environment. For a good discussion on antenna noise temperature, see [9, 10]. The receiver system noise is the composite of all the contributions from the receiver electric circuits such as the amplifiers, mixers, filters, and so forth. Note that the conversion between receiver noise figure and noise temperature is given by TA = 290(10NF/10 − 1), where NF = noise figure of the receiver. The receive gain, Gr, is the passive gain of the receive antenna itself. In practice, the G/T is measured, but it can also be calculated using

where Gr(dB) = passive gain of the receive antenna in dB, T = Noise temperature = TA + TRX, TA = temperature of the antenna (Kelvin), and TRX = noise temperature of the receiver system (Kelvin).
4.The receiver noise power. This is the noise contribution attributed to the information (data) modulation bandwidth of the receiver. Since the noise temperature of the receiver is already taken into account by (1.29), the noise power due to the modulation bandwidth of the receiver intermediate frequency (IF) only includes Boltzmann's constant and the modulation bandwidth in hertz. It is given by

where Tch = noise power due to the bandwidth of the receiver, k = Boltzmann's constant = 1.38 × 10−23 (Joules/K), and BR = the bandwidth of the receiver, which is typically set by the IF filter bandwidth.
The four contributors to the carrier-to-noise ratio defined above can be combined. For the communications link equation for the system shown in Figure 1.8, the carrier-to-noise ratio is given by

It is possible to use link (1.31) along with other analysis methods presented in other parts of this book to perform the design and trade analysis of a communications link with a satellite or terrestrial system. For instance, it can be used to trade off the transmit antenna gain, which gives the antenna aperture size, the transmit power, which gives the required power for the high-power amplifiers in the T/R modules, and the receive noise figure, which gives the required noise figure of the low-noise amplifiers in the T/R module.
As example, consider a satellite link operating at 11.2 GHz at an altitude of 36,000 km, with a transmit power of 12W, a transmit antenna gain of 46 dB, a receive noise figure of 1.0 dB, a receive antenna gain of 35 dB, and a receive IF bandwidth of 30 MHz. For this system, if we use (1.30) to calculate C/N, we will obtain

1.8 Conclusions
This chapter has presented the system-level design considerations for antenna arrays, radar systems for both targeting radar and weather radar, and the link analysis for a communication system. This information can be used to design a system that will meet a particular set of requirements.
Problems
1.1What is a PESA? What is an AESA? Explain the benefits of an AESA over a PESA.
1.2Calculate the array factor as a function of angle, θ, for an array with eight elements and an element spacing of 12.7 mm operating at a frequency of 14 GHz. Are three grating lobes? If so, at what angle?
1.3What is the broadside 3-dB beamwidth of an antenna array operating at 24 GHz with 12 × 12 elements and element spacing of 5 mm?
1.4What is the directivity of the antenna from Problem 1.3 if the antenna is a 2-D array with 12 × 12 elements?
1.5What is the signal-to-noise ratio of a radar system operating at 9 GHz with a transmit power of 100W, a transmit and receive antenna gain of 25 dB, a target radar cross-section of 0 dBsm, a target range of 3 km, a processing gain of 10 dB, and a receiver bandwidth of 10 MHz?
References
[1]Bridger, W., and M. Ruiz, "Total Ownership Cost Reduction Case Study: AEGIS Radar Phase Shifters," MBA Thesis Naval Postgraduate School, December 2006.
[2]"Navy Celebrates 100th Delivery of AESA Radar," Naval Air Systems Command Press Release, July 22, 2008.
[3]"IEEE Standard Definitions of Terms for Antennas," IEEE Standards Board, approved 1993, reaffirmed 2004, pp. 10-11.
[4]"IEEE Standard Definitions of Terms for Antennas," IEEE Standards Board, approved 1993, reaffirmed 2004, p. 5.
[5]Elliott, R., Antenna Theory and Design, Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1981.
[6]Balanis, C., Antenna Theory: Analysis and Design, New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1997.
[7]Jeong, Y. C., "Design of a Novel Vector Modulator," Microwave Journal, October 2001.
[8]Probert-Jones, J. R., "The Radar Equation in Meteorology," Quarterly Journal Royal Meteorological Society, Vol. 88, Issue 378, 1962, pp. 485-495.
[9]Xu, C., and Y. Rahmat-Samii, "Numerical Evaluation of Antenna Noise Temperature for Optimal Reflector Antenna Designs," IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation, Spokane, WA, 2011, pp. 3330-3332.
[10]Otoshi, T., Noise Temperature Theory and Applications for Deep Space Communications Antenna Systems, Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2008.







2
Transmit/Receive Modules
2.1 Introduction to Transmit/Receive Modules
Transmit/receive modules are the key components in an AESA. System noise figure is set and the RF power is generated at the aperture front-end using T/R modules. This results in increased system sensitivity over passive arrays. Feed networks do not need to be optimized for lowest loss, thereby allowing design flexibility and the ability to minimize size and weight; however, these performance improvements typically come with increased array complexity and higher initial cost. Figure 2.1 is a simplified block diagram of the RF components in a T/R module. With the exception of the circulator, these components are solid state devices and/or solid state integrated circuits. T/R modules have, at a minimum, four fundamental functions:
1.To provide gain and RF power output in transmit mode;
2.To provide gain and low noise figure in receive mode;
3.To switch between transmit and receive states;
4.To provide phase shift for beam steering in the transmit and receive states [1].
The attenuator and phase shifter are RF components that are common to the transmit and receive paths. These functional blocks are sometimes referred to as common leg circuits (CLC) and, in advanced modules, are integrated as a multifunction circuit (MFC). The attenuator is used in receive mode to tailor the receive antenna pattern to reduce receive sidelobes. Use of attenuation on transmit is not typically done because the transmit amplifiers are most efficient and deliver the most power when they are driven with higher RF input power within rated limits. A phase shifter circuit controls the electrical insertion phase of the transmit and receive signals, thereby electronically steering the spatially combined RF energy. Phase shifter settings vary depending on the location of the T/R module within the overall array.


Figure 2.1 Simplified block diagram of a transmit/receive module.

The driver amplifier and power amplifier perform power amplification and set the output power level of the module in the transmit mode. The duplexer or circulator serves to connect the radiating element to both transmit and receive paths and provides isolation between the transmit and the receive paths as well as termination for transmitter power reflected back into the receive path through the circulator.
During the receive mode of operation, the receive protect circuit limits the input power that reaches the sensitive low-noise amplifier. The low-noise amplifier provides low-noise amplification of the radar return signal and is the principal element that establishes the system noise figure.
Thousands to tens of thousands of T/R modules may be used in each array face depending on the application. T/R modules are produced in automated assembly lines and are intended to be identical. However, there are variations in performance due to differences in the components making up the T/R modules along with assembly variations. As a result, there will be a statistical distribution in performance within a population of T/R modules. Reliability of T/R modules result in higher levels of system readiness and ultimately lower life-cycle cost. Statistically, even with the very high MTBF of individual modules, a small number of T/R modules predictably will fail during initial operating hours of array level burn-in and calibration. However, impact on system performance is negligible and it is impractical to disassemble an array just to replace a few faulty T/R modules. As a result, arrays are routinely accepted with known element level faults.
2.2 Early T/R Module Development Efforts
Use of microwave solid-state technology in phased array radar was proposed in the early 1960s, primarily in recognition of the need to improve system reliability. In 1964, the Air Force started the Molecular Electronics for Radar Applications (MERA) program to examine the concept of implementing an X-band all solid-state radar. The first T/R module was developed on this program and is described in a paper on the development of T/R module technology for X-band active array radar [2]. The module was constructed using thin film on alumina hybrid integrated circuits with silicon active devices. One side of the module contained the transmitter power chain, frequency multiplier, T/R switch, balanced mixer, and IF amplifier, while the reverse side contained the digital phase shifter, digital control, and LO amplifier. The overall power efficiency of the system was low due to the limited microwave performance capability of the silicon devices [3].
The first deployed AESA T/R modules were the Raytheon PAVE PAWS radar modules developed in the late 1970s [4]. Like the MERA module, the PAVE PAWS module used silicon hybrid microwave integrated circuits; however, PAVE PAWS operates at UHF frequencies where silicon-based device performance is more suitable. PAVE PAWS T/R modules were used for four PAVE PAWS systems and two Ballistic Missile Early Warning System (BMEWS) radars several of which are still operating today. These systems have two array faces with each face containing a T/R module in each of the 1,796 active elements. PAVE PAWS modules are made with two nested boxes [4]. The upper box contains the receiver and control components including a 4-bit phase shifter, a two-stage low noise amplifier, and a T/R switch [5]. The bottom box contains the transmitter circuitry, consisting of four 100-W output transistors powered by two drivers and employing two circulators to protect from mismatch conditions. The bottom of the PAVE PAWS module is attached to the recirculating liquid-filled cold plate. PAVE PAWS modules are designed to be operated continuously and, as a result, are required to be highly reliable [5].
2.3 MMIC-Based T/R Modules
The MERA program and a follow-on program called Reliable Advanced Solid-state Array Radar (RASSAR) demonstrated that a semiconductor technology other than silicon was needed for solid-state microwave devices for radar applications at X-band and above. Research on compound semiconductors, particularly gallium arsenide (GaAs), was being performed by a number of organizations during the 1970s and 1980s. Semi-insulating substrates made it possible to combine RF functions on GaAs. Integration of microwave circuits on the same substrate became known as monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMICs) discussed in detail in Chapter 3. The DARPA Microwave and Millimeter Wave Integrated Circuits (MIMIC) program, which ran from 1987 through 1995, greatly accelerated the maturation of GaAs MMIC technology and made it possible to use these circuits in X-band T/R modules for MMIC-based AESAs in the mid-1990s. A typical X-band MMIC-based T/R module from that time period is shown in Figure 2.2 [6].
2.4 T/R Module Performance Requirements
Requirements for T/R modules are traditionally flowed down from a system specification. Radar system considerations include power-aperture-gain (PAG), allowable array size, weight, prime power, and cooling, among other considerations. Specification flow-down determines the number of modules required, size and weight per module, power consumption requirements, peak power for each module, efficiency requirements, noise figure, phase and amplitude control requirements, and module interface requirements. Once initial system specifications are flowed down, T/R module designers are able to determine to the first degree if components are available that will allow them to meet the flowed-down module performance requirements. Module size is largely determined by the array element spacing, which is driven by the frequency range of operation.
As an example, if the peak radiated power is specified as 20 kW and the array has 2,000 elements, each T/R module will need to deliver 10W, ignoring the radiator losses. This serves as a starting point for the module designer. Knowing the frequency band of operation and the available input RF power for each module will permit the designer to select the necessary components to generate the required RF power. In some cases, commercially available components can be used. However, for advanced AESAs, it is more common that custom circuits are required.


Figure 2.2 Mid-1990s MMIC-based X-band T/R module. (Image courtesy of Raytheon Company, Waltham, Massachusetts.)

Key performance parameters of the RF functional blocks in a T/R module are used to analyze requirements for the cascaded networks forming the respective transmit and receive paths. Figure 2.3 is a block diagram of a representative T/R module. Analyzing the transmit path and working from the given input power level, it is seen that the RF output power can be determined to a first order by calculating the gain/loss budget. This is sometimes called a link budget for communication systems.
Gain/loss analysis is performed simply by adding the gains and subtracting the losses when the terms are expressed logarithmically in decibels (dB). In this case, RF power is expressed in dBm where dBm is an abbreviation for the power ratio in decibels of the measured power referenced to 1 mW.

An example is 1W = 1,000 mW = 10log1000 = 30 dBm, with the sample values of 1 mW = 0 dBm, 10 mW = 10 dBm, 100 mW = 20 dBm, 1W = 30 dBm, and 10W = 40 dBm.
In Figure 2.3, T/R module output power is determined by the equation:



Figure 2.3 T/R module diagram for gain/loss analysis.

where Pout = output RF power in dBm, Pin = input power to the T/R module in dBm, LCLC = insertion loss (or gain) associated with the common leg circuit in decibels, GPrdr = gain of the predriver amplifier in decibels, GDrr = gain of the driver amplifier in decibels, LSpl = Insertion loss associated with the splitter in decibels, GHPA = gain of the HPA in decibels, Lcbr = Insertion loss associated with the combiner in decibels, Lcir = insertion loss associated with the circulator in decibels, and Lconn = insertion loss associated with the connector in decibels.
Note that the power is split to feed the pair of power amplifiers and recombined after amplification in each HPA. The 3 dB and +3 dB account for this in (2.2).
It is informative to track the power at each point in the circuit as shown in Figure 2.3. Additionally, if the output power requirement is specified, this analysis can be used to determine the requirements for the output power of the HPA, for example. In this example, the output power of each HPA is 50 dBm or 100W and the output power of the T/R module is 52 dBm or 158W. This same analysis can be performed on the receive path, and in fact, the cascaded noise figure and dynamic range can be determined. More details on these module parameters are contained the Section 2.4.9.
Module performance requirements are statistical requirements based on a lot size corresponding to the number of modules used in the array. Lot average statistics must be used as acceptance criteria. The use of lot average specifications allows for acceptance of a normal distribution of modules that vary to some extent while still meeting the overall system specifications. It is not uncommon to accept modules that vary in peak output power from the nominal value by ±10%.
A group of T/R modules is typically assembled on a common carrier having provisions for T/R module control, power conditioning, and cooling. For AESAs, these common carriers have on the order of 8 to 16 individual T/R modules and a common dc-to-dc converter to provide the necessary power to all of the modules on the assembly. These assemblies are called line replaceable units (LRU) and are typically the lowest level of field replaceable units associated with T/R modules. Figure 2.4 is an example of this LRU architecture for an AESA showing T/R modules on a common higher-level assembly.
2.5 T/R Module Components
2.5.1 Transmit/Receive Switches
T/R switches, phase shifters and attenuators are the primary RF signal control circuits used in T/R modules. T/R switches are used to switch from transmit to receive mode and are required on the front end of the module to control signals through the phase shifter and attenuator, as shown in Figure 2.1. Additional T/R switches are required on T/R modules designed for dual polarization in which the radar can transmit and receive in either horizontal or vertical polarization [7]. Some modules have a requirement to switch to a standby mode such that the module is neither in transmit or receive. This imposes additional requirements on the T/R switch and may require a more complex switch configuration than the normal single-pole double-throw (SPDT) design.


Figure 2.4 AESA system architecture block diagram with T/R modules on a higher-level assembly.

T/R switches are typically implemented with silicon vertical PIN diodes, GaAs metal semiconductor field effect transistors (MESFETs), or advanced versions of MESFET technology that will be discussed in Chapter 3. PIN diodes are vertical diode structures having a p-type region, an intrinsic region where there is little or no intentional change in the conductivity of the semiconductor, and an n-type region. Physics of PIN diodes are described by Bahl [8]. These diodes have high breakdown voltage in reverse bias and in the forward direction have excellent linearity and low distortion. These characteristics make PIN diodes well suited for switches and in limiter circuits discussed later in this chapter.
GaAs MESFET-based switches or variants of MESFET technology are the preferred switches on T/R modules that employ MMICs. This is primarily due to the fact that the T/R switches can be integrated with the phase shifter and attenuator circuit functions at very little extra cost of the circuit. This also eliminates additional component handling, die attachment and wire bonding at the module assembly step.
Key performance requirements for T/R switches include insertion loss, isolation, switching speed and power handling capability. Table 2.1 shows representative values for these key parameters [9].
2.5.2 Phase Shifter
The phase shifter is one of the most important devices in the T/R module. Its primary function is to electronically steer the beam. By applying an appropriate phase shift within a T/R module at each antenna element, the linear phase progression across the aperture will form a beam in the direction normal to the phase front as shown in Figure 2.5. Normally in an AESA, the spacing between antenna elements is constant and the difference in phase shift between adjacent elements is constant. The incremental phase shift depends on the frequency of the electromagnetic wave, the angle of the incident wave with respect to the array face, and the spacing between elements. Unlike time-delay techniques, the amount of compensation applied for beam steering is proportional to frequency. For this reason, the phase shifters must be reset even if the beam position is not changed each time the frequency of operation is varied [10].
Antenna elements and other T/R module components used at each element and manufacturing variations will also create element-to-element phase shift differences. Phase settings can be adjusted to account for these differences in a process referred to as array calibration.

Table 2.1
40-W GaN-Based T/R Switch Performance Characteristics

Source: [9].


Figure 2.5 Electronic beam steering using phase shifters in each T/R module.
The phase shifter must provide 360° of accurate phase control across the operating frequency band while providing low insertion loss, low-loss amplitude modulation versus phase state, low VSWR, high intercept point, fast switching time, and high rejection of spurious noise.
Phase shifters can be implemented to provide either analog or digital phase shift. However, the value of phase shift provided by an analog phase shifter is directly affected by noise on the control line [11]. For this reason, digital phase shifters are typically chosen for AESA applications. The phase shifter is also one of the larger MMIC devices in the module, and therefore can also have a significant effect on the module size, producibility, and cost.
Digital phase shifters are usually implemented in a binary fashion where the individual segments (bits) are cascaded to provide the total range and resolution required. Most radar requirements dictate a phase shifter resolution of 5 to 7 bits. Each phase shifter has a fixed number of quantized bits, n. The number of possible phase states is equal to 2n. The phase is set at the state closest to the ideal phase. The resulting phase error is periodically correlated over regions of the array and is called a quantization error. This quantization error is shown graphically in Figure 2.6.
Table 2.2 lists the key performance parameters for a digital phase shifter [12]. Unique component parameters include phase error, RMS phase error and insertion loss variation across all phase states. Insertion loss is high, but the phase shifter is located in the low power region of the T/R module and this loss can easily be overcome by a subsequent gain stage.
Networks used to switch the phase state fall into four general categories: switched line, loaded line, reflection, and highpass or lowpass filter networks. A 6-bit digital phase shifter that is designed using switched line, reflection, and highpass or lowpass filter configurations for the different phase bits is described in [13]. In order to maintain a constant phase shift across a wide bandwidth and achieve low insertion loss, switched line and reflection type phase shifters were chosen for 180°/90°/45° phase shift bits. The 22.5°/11.25°/5.625° phase shift bits use highpass or lowpass type phase shift networks to reduce the chip area.


Figure 2.6 Diagram of the quantization error associated with a digital phase shifter.


Table 2.2
Key Performance Parameters for a Digital Phase Shifter

Source: [12].

This 6-bit digital phase shifter is composed of series and shunt-switched GaAs pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistors (PHEMTs). Switched transistors in the circuit are controlled through 2.5 kΩ resistors that provide adequate RF isolation between the gate of each transistor and the control sources [13]. Figure 2.7 shows the measured phase shift as a function of frequency for the major phase states. As seen in the figure, there is on the order of ±5° of phase error in some of the bits. Another example of a 6-18-GHz, 5-bit phase shifter implemented with high and low-pass filter structures was reported by Simon et al. [14].
Early attempts at integration of digital control circuits with analog RF circuits revealed limitations with the fabrication processes. Today, however, these problems have largely been solved and the backgating issues that lead to random upset of the phase-shifter circuits have been eliminated. As a result, monolithic phase shifters and attenuators are readily available from multiple suppliers for T/R module applications.
2.5.3 Attenuators
Attenuators are passive resistive elements that reduce the amplitude of the RF signal passing through them. Attenuators are used in the common path of the T/R module as shown in Figure 2.1. They are used in T/R modules during the receive mode of operation to tailor the receive antenna pattern to reduce receive sidelobes and are used during array calibration to adjust the overall receive gain of the modules. In most AESAs, there is no intended module-to-module amplitude correction on transmit.
Antenna performance is typically shown with antenna patterns. Figure 2.8 is a cross-sectional diagram of an ideal antenna pattern showing the key attributes that include gain, beamwidth, and sidelobes. Antenna gain (or directivity) is proportional to area. Antenna beamwidth is inversely proportional to linear dimension of the array. All parts of the antenna pattern outside the main beam are called sidelobes. Figure 2.9 is an example of a receive antenna pattern with and without weighting. Weighting means that some of the antenna elements have been adjusted to optimize a particular antenna property typically the sidelobe level. It is common to use an unweighted transmit aperture and a weighted receive aperture in AESAs. Preferred receive weightings are usually Gaussian or Taylor as these are assessed to provide the best compromise between loss of main-beam directivity, main-beam broadening and improved sidelobe performance [15]. More information on Taylor weighting is given by Hansen in the book on Phased Array Antennas [16].


Figure 2.7 Measured phase shift as a function of frequency for the major phase states of a 6-bit digital phase shifter. (After: [13].)



Figure 2.8 Antenna pattern showing key properties related to phased arrays.



Figure 2.9 Antenna pattern showing sidelobe reduction through the use of attenuation in selective T/R modules.

As seen in Figure 2.9, the sidelobes can be reduced significantly by adjusting the attenuators in selective T/R modules around the array face. However, this results in a reduction of the peak amplitude in the main beam along with a broadening of the main beam.
Attenuators can be used to adjust the gain of the cascaded receive chain of components in a population of T/R modules as shown in Figure 2.10. Usually the three least significant bits of a 7-bit attenuator are used for this purpose. It should be noted that the receive gain can only be adjusted downward, as shown in Figure 2.10. Attenuators can be used in some applications to improve the input match of amplifiers at the expense of reduced overall gain of the combination of components. Attenuators can also be used in some cases in the transmit mode to adjust the compression level at which the transmit power amplifiers are driven and can be used to provide temperature compensation in transmit circuits.
Digital attenuators are by far the most common type of attenuators used in T/R modules. Six to 7-bit attenuators are used in current T/R modules. They are implemented in gallium arsenide (GaAs) enhancement/depletion mode technology (discussed in Chapter 3). Digital attenuators are commercially available for radar applications. Table 2.3 lists the key performance parameters for digital attenuators [17]. Unique component parameters include attenuation accuracy and switching time. Insertion loss is high but the attenuator, like the phase shifter, is located in the low power region of the T/R module and this loss can easily be overcome by a subsequent gain stage.


Figure 2.10 Calibrating cascaded receive gain by setting the attenuators in a population of T/R modules.


Table 2.3
Key Performance Parameters for 6-Bit Digital Attenuators


2.5.4 Core Chip
Next-generation phased array radars require T/R modules that are driven by cost. One obvious way to achieve cost and size reduction is to use higher levels of monolithic integration. Functions that logically lend themselves to integration include phase shifters, attenuators, low-noise amplifiers, driver amplifiers, and T/R switches. Integration of these functions on a single monolithic circuit called a "core chip" has been reported [18, 19]. Core chips are commercially available from multiple suppliers and are typically manufactured in a 0.25-micron gate length PHEMT process.
Core chips have also been designed and produced in other processes that include RF CMOS and silicon germanium (SiGe) bipolar/CMOS (BiCMOS) [20]. Complete single-chip T/R modules have also been demonstrated in BiCMOS) [21]. These processes have the potential to radically lower the cost of the T/R chip set and may have acceptable performance up to X-band. However, their performance with respect to some of the RF requirements likely will not be as good as GaAs-based core chips.
2.5.5 Driver Amplifier
Driver amplifiers are designed to provide linear signal amplification prior to the final power amplifier stages in the transmit chain of a T/R module, as shown in Figure 2.1. A power amplifier is a transistor or group of transistors that are configured to increase the amplitude of an input signal by a specified factor called the gain. Driver amplifiers tend to be medium power amplifiers and for some applications may even be used as the final-stage amplifier. They are typically two-stage or three-stage amplifiers. Selection of the driver amplifier depends on the available output power of the common leg circuit or the phase shifter and attenuator combination, if they are not integrated into a CLC, and the required input power of the power amplifier(s). In some T/R modules, a pre-driver amplifier may be necessary to achieve the required drive power. Driver amplifiers are typically fabricated using the same process as the power amplifiers.
Table 2.4 lists some of the key features of a driver or medium power amplifier. Driver amplifiers ideally have a nominally flat gain response over the desired operating frequency band. The small signal gain is on the order of 20 dB and the power-added efficiency (PAE) is typically greater than 25%. PAE is a measure of how well an amplifier or transistor converts dc power to RF power. The dc power that is not converted to RF during this process results in heat that must be dissipated, as shown in Figure 2.11. PAE is defined by

where Pout = RF output power in watts, Pin = RF input power in watts, and Pdc = the dc power into the device (typically the drain voltage times the drain current).
Dissipated power (Pdiss) is simply given by


Table 2.4
Key Performance Parameters for Driver Amplifiers




Figure 2.11 Cross-sectional diagram of dc-to-RF power conversion in field effect transistors.

As an example, if the output power is 50 dBm and the gain is 20 dB, calculate the dissipated power if the efficiency is 25%.
Solution:
Pout is given as 50 dBm = 100W. Pin is equal to (Pout − Gain) = 50 dBm − 20 dB = 30 dBm = 1W.
So PAE = (Pout - Pin)/Pdc = 0.25 = (100W − 1W)/Pdc, Pdc = (100 − 1) W/0.25 = 396W, and Pdiss = (396 + 1) − 100 = 297W.
The input and output return losses are measures of how well the amplifier is matched to the characteristic impedance (usually 50 ohms) of the RF system. Return loss should be better than 10 dB. The second-order and third-order intermodulation products should be lower than −15 dBc and −20 dBc, respectively.
As discussed above, the driver amplifier is usually designed to operate in the linear region of its power performance window. As a result, the amplifier is normally biased in the middle of its current versus voltage family of curves as shown in Figure 2.12. This is defined as a class-A bias condition. In this case, the gate voltage is adjusted so that with no RF input signal present, the amplifier is drawing a moderate amount of dc. When an RF signal is applied to the gate terminal of the amplifier, the associated change in the drain current follows the sinusoidal change in the RF amplitude. The increase in output power is achieved by applying dc power to the amplifier. Small changes in the gate voltage cause large changes in the drain current, resulting in a large change in the output signal. The current swing can be from Imax to Imin and the voltage swing can be from the knee voltage (Vk) to the breakdown voltage (BVds), shown in Figure 2.12. The rectangle defined by these limits is representative of the power that an amplifier can deliver.


Figure 2.12 Current-voltage characteristics for a field effect transistor.

A circuit schematic of a FET amplifier biased for class-A operation is shown in Figure 2.13 [23]. Equations that govern class-A bias are discussed in detail by Cripps [22] and Bahl [23]. In Figure 2.13, the parallel LC circuit allows only the fundamental RF signal to pass through to the load. The RF choke isolates the RF signal from the dc bias and the blocking capacitor blocks the dc bias from the RF output signal line. The gate bias circuit is not shown on this diagram.
The bias point for a class-A amplifier is selected such that Ids is about Imax/2 and Vds is about BVds/2, as shown in Figure 2.14. This is called the quiescent point or Q point and the current at this point is called the quiescent current or Idq. This bias point is achieved on most GaAs and GaN transistors by first setting the gate voltage to some negative voltage, then setting the drain voltage to the recommended operating voltage, and then adjusting the gate voltage to achieve the recommended Idq. Since most compound semiconductor transistors are depletion mode devices, meaning that they are always wide open


Figure 2.13 Circuit schematic for a MESFET amplifier. (© 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Reprinted, with permission, from [23].)



Figure 2.14 Load line and bias point for a class-A amplifier. (© 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Reprinted, with permission, from [23].)

for current flow until turned off by a negative gate voltage, it is critical that the proper turn-on sequence be followed.
Under these bias conditions, the output power is given by

and the dc power Pdc is given by

The drain efficiency, ηD, is given by

As seen in these equations, the theoretical maximum drain efficiency for a class-A amplifier is 50%. Power amplifiers, used in T/R modules, are typically biased in a class-AB configuration and can potentially have drain efficiencies greater than 50%. Power amplifiers are described in the next section.
2.5.6 Power Amplifier
Power amplifiers are the most expensive and most important RF components in the T/R module chipset. High PAE is critical for the power amplifier. As a result, power amplifiers for T/R modules are usually biased at a point between class-A and class-B. Figure 2.15 is a diagram of the load line and Q point for a class-B amplifier. In this case, the gate voltage of the amplifier is adjusted more negatively compared to class-A bias such that the amplifier draws little or no current when there is no RF signal.

Figure 2.15 Load line and bias point for a class-B amplifier. (© 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Reprinted, with permission, from [23].)
Under these bias conditions, the maximum value of Io is Imax and the dc power dissipated is given by

If all harmonic components are filtered out or the even harmonics are short-circuited, the average output RF power can be expressed as [23]

and the drain efficiency is given by
ηD = Pom / PDC = π / 4 = 0.785
so the theoretical maximum drain efficiency for a class-B amplifier is 78.5%. Recalling from (2.3) that
PAE = (Pout − Pin)/Pdc
Then peak PAE is related to drain efficiency by
PAE = ηD - Pin / Pdc
So
PAE ≈ ηD
provided that the gain is 10 dB or more. Realizable PAE for two-stage or three-stage power amplifiers at X-band is in the range of 30% to 40% even when biased in a class-AB configuration.
Table 2.5 shows electrical specifications for a three stage X-band MMIC high-power amplifier that is suitable for an X-band T/R module. In this particular case, the base of the HPA MMIC is held at 40°C, the characteristic input and output impedance is 50 ohms, the drain voltage is 10V and the gate bias voltage is adjusted so that the drain current is 4A. Under these conditions, even with no RF input power applied to the HPA, the dissipated power is 40W. When 18 dBm of RF input power is applied, the performance listed in the table is expected. This particular amplifier has an operating frequency range from 7.5 to 10.5 GHz. Over this full operating band, the output power is typically 42 dBm. Over a narrower frequency range from 8 to 10 GHz, the output power is 43 dBm or 20W. Output power at the 1-dB compression point is 42 dBm. Gain compression and output power saturation are discussed below. Small signal gain is 29 dB and power-added efficiency is 30%. Input and output VSWR are specified as 2.5:1 meaning that ~18% of the input power is reflected back and 18% of the output power is lost due to mismatch.
Under RF drive conditions (Pin = 18 dBm or 63 mW), the peak drain current is 6A. If the RF output power under these conditions is 43 dBm, then the power-added efficiency is 33%, as shown in the calculation below:
PAE = (Pout - Pin)/Pdc

Table 2.5
High-Power Amplifier Performance Parameters


So PAE = (20W − 63mW)/(6A × 10V) =33.2%.
Most amplifier suppliers provide absolute maximum ratings such that operation beyond these limits may result in permanent damage to the circuit. Table 2.6 shows the maximum ratings for the amplifier described in this example. Maximum RF input power is 23 dBm, which is 5 dB greater than the conditions under which the device performance is specified. Operating at 23 dBm is considered an RF overdrive condition that could result in positive gate current and ultimately burnout of the output transistors. Maximum drain supply voltage is 12V and operation beyond this value may cause drain to source breakdown and excessive drain current that could result in permanent damage.
Since these RF amplifiers are depletion mode devices, significant drain current is possible if the gate voltage is not applied prior to connecting the drain voltage. In this particular case, the gate voltage must be adjusted such that the drain current is less than 6.6A when no RF input is applied. At this absolute maximum rating, the dissipated power at 10V would be 66W, which is the value specified in the table.
Under the high dissipation conditions described above, there is a concern that the temperature in the channel region or junction could be high enough to cause damage due to solid state diffusion. For this particular amplifier, the absolute maximum junction temperature is 170°C. For this reason, most amplifiers have recommended operating conditions, as shown in Table 2.7.
To help T/R module designers, the thermal resistance of the amplifier circuit is specified. This allows the designer to evaluate packaging options and understand cooling requirements. Knowing the absolute maximum channel temperature and the thermal resistance of the circuit, the designer can calculate the peak dissipation for a given back of the chip temperature.
Output power delivered by a power amplifier, at a given frequency, is determined by the RF input drive level and the gain of the amplifier associated with that drive level. Under small signal drive conditions, the gain is constant and the output power is simply the sum of the input power in dBm and the small signal gain. The output power follows a linear curve as shown in Figure 2.16 until at higher drive levels the amplifier starts to reach the limits of the power rectangle shown in Figure 2.12. At this point, the gain decreases or compresses from its small signal value and the output power no longer increases at the same rate as it did under small signal conditions. This condition referred to as gain compression. When this occurs, the RF signal is no longer sinusoidal and clipping occurs, which causes the harmonics to increase.

Table 2.6
Absolute Maximum Ratings for a MMIC Power Amplifier



Table 2.7
Recommended Operating Conditions for a MMIC Power Amplifier

Note: MMIC Base Temperature = 170°C - ΘJC * VDD * IDQ.

Correspondingly, the efficiency of a power amplifier increases as the amplifier is driven into saturation as shown on the efficiency curve in Figure 2.16. As a result, HPAs for T/R modules are typically driven into compression by 3 to 5 dB but not driven to the absolute maximum RF input rating described above. The compromise under these conditions is that linearity is traded to achieve higher efficiency. GaN HEMTs have a very soft compression characteristic such that the peak output power and PAE may occur at a gain compression level of up to 7 to 10 dB.

Figure 2.16 Output power, gain, and efficiency as a function of input drive level.
Power amplifiers in current T/R module designs are typically biased in a class-AB configuration that is between the class-A and class-B conditions described above. However, there are other bias conditions that result in higher PAE. These bias conditions are sometimes referred to as switch-mode amplifiers wherein the transistor amplifier is operated as a switch [24].
One of these switch-mode amplifiers is a class-E amplifier [25]. Class-E amplifiers have gained recent interest as a result of the maturing of a new semiconductor technology composed of gallium nitride (GaN) on silicon carbide. This material system, which will be discussed extensively in Chapter 3, has a very high breakdown voltage that is essential to the operation of a class-E amplifier.
Switched-mode class-E tuned power amplifiers with a shunt capacitance have found widespread application due to their design simplicity and high efficiency operation. Their load network configuration consists of the shunt capacitance, series inductance, and series filter tuned to the fundamental frequency to provide a high level of harmonic suppression. In the class-E power amplifier, the current and voltage waveforms are such that high-current and the high-voltage conditions do not overlap. This minimizes the power dissipation and maximizes the power amplifier efficiency.
An equivalent circuit schematic of a class-E amplifier is shown in Figure 2.17 [23]. The active transistor is modeled as a switch. The switch-off resistance must be very high and the switch-on resistance is assumed to be constant and must be very low. Output capacitance is assumed to be independent of switch voltage. The Q factor of output circuit, the ratio of the stored energy to the energy dissipated per radian of the oscillation in the circuit, is assumed to be large enough to suppress harmonics and maintain a sinusoidal output.
Fully and partially matched L-band GaN class-E MMIC amplifiers have produced nearly 100W of output power at 80% efficiency. S-band MMICs have delivered up to 75W at over 65% efficiency [26].
As expected, higher-frequency HPAs tend to have lower power and efficiency. Lower-frequency amplifiers can be implemented in a wider variety of processes and materials technologies. New designs are introduced frequently and older designs become obsolete and are then no longer available. Obsolescence tends to be a significant issue for radar manufacturers and some choose to have their own MMIC fabrication facility in order to better control this situation.
Hybrid versions can provide higher output power but typically have poorer frequency response due to the additional parasitics. Hybrids are larger assemblies and are not as reproducible as monolithic amplifiers. However, hybrid approaches may be suitable if amplifier quantities are low. Understanding the parameters discussed above and their interdependences is essential to properly utilizing high-power amplifiers in a T/R module application.


Figure 2.17 Circuit schematic of a class-E amplifier. (© 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Reprinted, with permission, from [23].)

2.5.7 Circulator or Duplexer
Duplexer is a general term used to describe an electronic device that allows bidirectional (duplex) communication over a single path. In radar and radio communications systems, it isolates the receiver from the transmitter while permitting them to share a common antenna element, as shown in Figure 2.1. A circulator is a specific type of duplexer that has unique properties based on its material composition. A circulator is a nonreciprocal device that relies on the magnetic properties of ferrite to connect and isolate the receiver, transmitter, and antenna element [27]. Energy incident on the transmit port will be sent to the antenna element with low loss and will be blocked from going to the receive port. Energy incident on the antenna port will be sent to the receive port. Key performance parameters for circulators are the insertion loss, isolation, and power-handling capability. Table 2.8 lists the performance that is available at X-band for microstrip circulators.
Ferrite and magnetic materials are used to make circulators and they are typically assembled manually. Manual assembly and low volumes tend to make the circulators relatively expensive. Referring to Figure 2.2, it is obvious that the circulator component is physically large. In some cases, the circulator is packaged separately from the T/R module.

Table 2.8
Key Performance Parameters for a Microstrip X-Band Circulator


Semiconductor-based RF switches can also be used to connect the receiver or transmitter to the antenna element. However, a switch does not isolate the transmitter from energy input into the antenna element unless it is actively switched to the receive position. This incident energy can damage the transmitter and/or increase the amount of incident energy reflected out of the antenna potentially creating a higher radar cross-section. In addition, a switch does not isolate the transmitter from the antenna element's impedance, which varies as the phased array is scanned. This impedance variation can cause a change in power amplifier performance as the antenna is steered. This is referred to as load pull. For these reasons, switches are not typically used to replace circulators in most AESA applications.
2.5.8 Limiter or Receive Protect Circuit
Limiters are used in T/R modules to prevent damage to the low-noise amplifier during transmit or whenever stray radiation is present. Limiters may also be called receive protect circuits. Limiters often perform a second important function. They provide a termination to the circulator during transmit to absorb power that reflects from the antenna. Significant power can be reflected at large scan angles and the power amplifier needs to see the correct impedance or its power will drop due to load pull. Figure 2.1 shows where this component in located within the RF circuit of the T/R module. Under ideal conditions during the receive time period of the T/R module, the limiter is in a low insertion loss state and all of the RF signal captured by the antenna element is presented to the low noise amplifier for amplification.
Under some circumstances, high-power RF signals that could cause damage to the sensitive low noise amplifier may be received by the antenna element. When this occurs, the limiter "limits" the RF amplitude of the signal reaching the low-noise amplifier. Figure 2.18 is a circuit schematic of a simple diode limiter. In this schematic, the passive limiter is composed of dc blocking capacitors on the input and output and an opposed pair of PIN or Schottky barrier diodes mounted in shunt across a 50-ohm transmission line. When the amplitude of the RF signal increases to a certain level, the diode self-biases and starts conducting, thereby shunting power away from the main RF signal path.
For incoming signals that are below the limiting threshold in amplitude, the signal passes with relatively low power loss. Insertion loss and return loss (VSWR) of the limiter are defined in this region. As the incident signal exceeds the limiting threshold power level, the RF power causes the diode in the limiter to self-bias as described above. This decreases the forward resistance of the diode, and results in the incident signal being attenuated. The limiting threshold (or 1-dB compression point) is defined as the incident power level at which the output power level is attenuated by 1 dB, excluding transmission line losses. Limiting characteristics are shown in Figure 2.19.
As the incident power level increases, the attenuation level also increases until the diodes reach their saturation point, as shown in Figure 2.19. Beyond this point, the limiter provides almost constant attenuation, and the output power level will begin to increase proportionally with the input power level until the diodes burn out. The input power level at which the diodes burn out is dependent on the intrinsic layer thickness and the area of the diode. Smaller diameter diodes are typically required for higher frequency and, as a result, tend to burn out at lower power.
Turn-on time of the limiter diode is a concern and must be understood to determine if a particular limiter can protect the LNA that has been selected for the T/R module. If the RF input pulse has a faster rise time than the turn-on time of the limiter, there will be a spike in RF power that gets through until the limiter turns on. This is called spike leakage. If the limiter turns on faster than the rise time of the RF input pulse, there will be no spike leakage. Flat leakage is the designed RF output power level limit for a given limiter.


Figure 2.18 Diode limiter circuit schematic.



Figure 2.19 Output power of a limiter circuit as a function of RF input power.

Key performance specifications for limiter circuits used in T/R modules are shown in Table 2.9 along with the absolute maximum ratings. The operating bandwidth of the limiter must be consistent with the operating range of the overall T/R module. Since the limiter is in front of the low-noise amplifier, its insertion loss is a key performance parameter because it increases the receive noise figure of the T/R module. In general, lower insertion loss can be traded at the expense of lower power-handling capability and or response time. Leakage power is the RF power that passes through the limiter when in the limiting region of operation. This is the constant power that the low-noise amplifier must be able to handle without permanent damage. Maximum input power (CW) is the maximum RF input power to the limiter that is expected during normal system operation. Normally, there is design margin between this specified power and the absolute maximum CW RF input power that can be handled by the limiter circuit itself without permanent damage to the limiter. For the limiter shown in this example, the absolute maximum input RF power is 10W compared to 6W for the expected maximum input RF power. Maximum input power (Pulsed) is the peak RF input power that the limiter is designed to handle without damage. In this case, the pulsed power and CW power are the same. In some limiters the pulsed power can be significantly higher than the CW power if the breakdown voltage of the diodes is high and the pulse widths and duty cycle are such that thermal dissipation is not excessive.
Impedance matching is an effort to get maximum power transfer from source to load (usually 50Ω). Input and output return loss specifications are measures of how well the limiter, or any RF component for that matter, is impedance matched. Voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR) is a measure of how well a load is impedance matched to a source and is related to return loss as described below. VSWR is always expressed as a ratio with 1 in the denominator (2:1, 3:1, 5:1, and so forth). A short-circuit and an open-circuit have a VSWR value of (infinity:1). A perfect impedance match corresponds to a VSWR of 1:1. For the limiter having the specifications shown in Table 2.9, the minimum return loss is −10 dB, which means that no more than 10% of the incident RF power is reflected. A −10-dB return loss corresponds to a voltage standing wave ratio of 1.92.

Table 2.9
Key Performance Parameters for a Diode Limiter


Equations associated with impedance matching are shown below:

where RL is the return loss, Preflected is the reflected power, Pin is the RF input power, VSWR is the voltage standing wave ratio, and | ρ| is the voltage reflection coefficient.
In most cases for components used in T/R modules, a VSWR of 2:1 or better is acceptable.
Limiter circuits can be implemented with either monolithic microwave integrated circuits in which all of the components are fabricated on a single substrate using wafer-processing steps or they can be hybrid assemblies in which discrete semiconductor components are die-attached on an RF substrate material and wire-bonded to other discrete circuit elements. Monolithic limiters can be much smaller and have lower cost in high-volume applications. Hybrid limiters tend to be larger and more expensive, but can be easily tailored for a specific application.
2.5.9 Low-Noise Amplifier
The low-noise amplifier (LNA) is second only to the HPA in importance in a T/R module. It is located as close as possible to the antenna element, as shown in Figure 2.1, to improve its ability to receive the return signal from the target in the case of an AESA. The LNA sets the noise performance of the system and isolates additional noise sources. AESAs must be able to process very weak signals, but the noise added by the system components tends to obscure those very weak signals. Key performance parameters for an LNA are shown in Table 2.10. Foremost is the noise figure (NF). Noise figure is a system parameter that characterizes the ability to process low-level signals. Noise figure of a network is the decrease in the signal-to-noise ratio as the signal goes through the network [28].
A perfect amplifier would amplify the noise at its input along with the signal, maintaining the same signal-to-noise ratio at its input and output. A realistic amplifier, however, also adds some extra noise from its own components and degrades the signal-to-noise ratio. In electronic amplifiers, a small amount of output power can be measured even when there is no input power applied. This power is called noise power and is due to random motion of electrons in a conductor due to thermal agitation. So noise figure (NF) is a measure of degradation of the signal-to-noise ratio, caused by components in the RF signal chain. A low-noise figure means that very little noise is added by the network. However, an amplifier with low-noise figure does not guarantee good system noise performance if the amplifier gain is low.

Table 2.10
Key Performance Parameters for a Low-Noise Amplifier


Noise figure is unique in that it is suitable not only for characterizing the entire system but also the system components such as the preamplifier, mixer, and IF amplifier that make up the receive system. By controlling the noise figure and gain of system receive components; the T/R module designer directly controls the noise figure of the overall system. Once the noise figure is known, system sensitivity can be easily estimated from system bandwidth.
Noise figure is often the key parameter that differentiates one system from another and at the component and transistor level is strongly dependent on materials technologies and wafer fabrication processes. State-of-the-art LNAs are typically made with GaAs PHEMT processes or in special cases indium phosphide.
Unlike power amplifiers that are operated in saturation to achieve high power and high efficiency, LNAs tend to be operated in the linear region. Ideally, an LNA, used in a T/R module, would be able to receive and faithfully amplify a very weak signal at the low end and at the same time amplify a strong signal without distortion. Practical amplifiers are limited on both ends. The lower limit is determined by the noise figure of the amplifier and the upper end is determined by its linear power handling capability. The third-order intercept (TOI) point is a measure of its linearity at the upper end. It is based on the theory that device nonlinearities can be modeled using a low-order polynomial, derived by means of Taylor series expansion. The third-order intercept point relates nonlinear products caused by the third-order nonlinear term to the linearly amplified signal. Third-order intercept is defined as the point at which the power in the third-order product and the fundamental tone intersect, when the amplifier is assumed to be linear. TOI is a purely mathematical concept and it is not physically possible to measure this point. The intercept point is obtained graphically by plotting two curves, one for the linearly amplified signal at an input tone frequency and one for a nonlinear product. On a logarithmic scale, the linearly amplified signal will exhibit a slope of 1. A third-order nonlinear product will increase by 3 dB in power when the input power is raised by 1 dB. Both curves are extended with straight lines of slopes 1 and 3 for a third-order intercept point, as shown in Figure 2.20. The point where the curves intersect is the intercept point. It can be referenced from the input or output power axis, leading to input or output intercept point, respectively (IIP3/OIP3). Input and output intercept points differ by the small-signal gain of the device. For most LNAs, the third-order intercept power is typically 10 to 15 dB above the P1dB power output of the amplifier at the fundamental frequency.


Figure 2.20 Graphical description of third-order intercept point.

System dynamic range and noise temperature are key metrics for an AESA. The receive performance of the individual modules has a significant influence on the system performance; however, the fact that an array has thousands of T/R modules reduces the dynamic range requirements of individual modules.
In an AESA, the system receive performance is evaluated by calculating the performance of the cascaded network of components in an individual T/R module and the network that includes the contributions from all of the modules in the AESA. Noise figure of a cascaded network can best be determined by calculating the noise factor of the network and then converting to noise figure for the total network. Noise factor and noise figure are related by the equation

where NF = noise figure in decibels and F = noise factor in numerical.
Component suppliers specify noise figure (NF) in decibels for active devices. For mixers, the conversion loss is the noise figure (NF) in decibels. For passive components with loss such as attenuators, the loss is the noise figure (NF) in decibels. These parameters have to be converted to noise factor F in numerical to calculate the cascaded NF.
If there are N components connected in a cascaded network, the total noise factor can be calculated from the total noise factor using the Friis formula

where Fi = noise factor of the ith component as a ratio (not in decibels), Gi = gain of the ith component as a ratio (not in decibels).
So NFtotal = 10 log Ftotal
System noise temperature of an AESA is determined by summing the contributions from a number of noise sources. Noise sources that compete with return signal from a target include solar noise, atmospheric noise, galactic noise, ground or sea surface noise, interfering radars, and RF signal sources, to name a few. These are external noise sources. Internal noise sources are associated with losses in components prior to the return signal being received and amplified by the LNA and to a lesser extent by the components in the receive chain passed the LNA. So the system noise temperature (Ts) at the face of the array is expressed by the Friis formula shown in (2.13).

where Ta = antenna noise temperature, which is noise contribution from the environment that includes the external sources described above, Te(i) = effective noise temperature for the ith device, and Gj = gain of the jth device. For passive components, G = 1/L (where L is the passive component insertion loss).
Ta is dependent on the apparent temperature of the sky, which is frequency and elevation dependent.
Noise power at each point in a cascaded network is defined by

where k = Boltzmann's constant (1.38 × 10−23 W-sec/deg K), T = noise temperature (degrees in Kelvin), and B = signal bandwidth (Hertz).
Components in a cascaded network can be characterized using an equivalent noise temperature. For more details and examples related to noise in cascaded networks, see Chapter 10 in Microwave Engineering by David Pozar [30].
So from (2.14) we have:

where Te = equivalent noise temperature of the component and G = noise gain of the component.
So we can calculate noise power knowing the equivalent system temperature of a component in a cascaded network, bandwidth of the component, and the associated noise gain.
The spurious-free dynamic range (SFDR) of a system is the range between the smallest signal that can be detected in a system as discussed above and the largest signal that can be introduced into a system without creating detectable distortions in the operational bandwidth. SFDR can be expressed as

where P3 = the power level of the third-order intercept at the output of the device in watts and No = noise power level at the output of the device in watts.
This is shown graphically in Figure 2.21.
The inverse of the total output third-order intercept point of a cascaded network is given by



Figure 2.21 Graphical description of spurious-free dynamic range.

where P3(i) = power level of the third-order intercept at the output of the ith device and Gj = gain of the jth device.
At the array face, a radiating/receive antenna element is the first electronic component that must be considered in the system noise temperature equation. It is a passive element, so the gain is equal to 1/L where L is the insertion loss. The antenna element is then followed by connector losses, loss in the circulator, and insertion loss associated with the limiter circuit and finally the receive signal is detected and amplified by the LNA and postamplifiers, if included.
It is important to note that each T/R module is a receiver connected to an array beamformer. The array beamformer is unique in the cascaded network such that:
1.Gain of an N:1 beamformer is N (excluding losses) for coherent signals in the beamformer.
2.Noise is noncoherent and does not experience the linear gain increase like the received signal.
3.Dynamic range increases as the signal travels through the array.
As an example, consider an active array with 100 antenna elements each connected to a T/R module, as shown in the diagram in the top portion of Figure 2.22. In this example the antenna gain is 3 and the antenna element insertion loss is 1 dB. Each of the T/R modules has the cascaded receive characteristics shown in the figure. The signal from each T/R module is fed into a corporate combiner or beamformer whose output drives a subarray amplifier having a gain of 10 dB, an NF of 5 dB, and a TOI of 25 dBm. Determine the cascaded noise figure at the output of the subarray amplifier, the noise factors, equivalent noise temperature, noise power, third-order intercept and dynamic range at each point in the receiver chain. Assume the array face is a 290K and that the bandwidth is 10 MHz.
Solution
Convert from decibels to numerical values using (2.11) for NF, as shown in Table 2.11.
Total noise factor can be calculated using (2.12).


Table 2.11
Conversion Table for the Practical Exercise

Component
Noise Gain
Noise Factor

Antenna
G = −1 dB = 1/1.26 = 0.79
NF = 1 dB to F1 = 1.26

Limiter
G = −0.5 dB = 1/1.12 = 0.89
NF = 0.5 dB to F2 =1.12

LNA
G = 20 dB = 100
NF = 2 dB to F3 = 1.58

Beamformer
G = −4 dB = 1/2.51 = 0.4
NF = 4 dB to F4 =2.51

Subarray amplifier
G = 10 dB =10
NF = 5dB F5 = 3.16





Figure 2.22 System noise temperature, noise power, and dynamic range of a 100-element array.

Ftotal = 2.3 and the cascaded noise figure is NFtotal = 10 log F total = 10 log 2.3 = 3.62.
Equivalent noise temperature at the output of each component can be calculated from
Te = (F −1)T0
So we have an equivalent noise temperature of Te = (1.26 − 1)290K =75.09K after the receive antenna element and the total system noise temperature is
Ts = (Ftotal −1)290K = (2.3 −1)290K = 377K
Noise power at each component is simply calculated using (2.15) and remembering that the gain is the total gain numerical.
Nototal = k (Ta + Te) BG = (1.38 × 10 − 23) (290 + 377)
(10 × 10 6) (0.79)0.89) (100)(0.4)(10)W = 2.9 × 10 − 11 W = 2.9 × 10 − 8 mW = − 75.9 dBm
From (2.17) we get the inverse of the third-order intercept point at each component.
If we assume that the antenna element, limiter, and beamformer do not saturate and are not the limiting factors, we can focus on the active component to investigate the cascaded TOI or Q3.
TOI for the LNA is given as 10 dBm and the net signal gain of the beamformer (20 − 4)dB =16 dB, so we have a cascaded TOI of 26 dBm at the output of the beamformer. Calculating the total TOI gives us
1/P 3 = 1/Gsa (P3Beamformer) + 1/P3sa = (1/10 (26) + 1/25) =
(0.0038 + 0.04) P 3 total = 1/0.4038 = 22.8 dBm.
Finally, we can calculate the dynamic range since we know No and P3
DR = 2 / 3 (22.8 - (−75.9) dBm = 49 dBm.
Other values in the table in Figure 2.22 may be calculated similarly.
From this example, it should be apparent that to achieve minimum system noise temperature, designers should minimize pre-LNA losses and use an LNA with low-noise figure and high gain. Since the noise contribution from each module is decorrelated, the system SFDR can be greater than that of an individual T/R module.
2.6 Module Control and Power Conditioning
As shown Figure 2.4, a signal/data processor provides control signals to the LRUs. Within each LRU, control signals are distributed to each T/R module. The distributed control system generates command signals to set the T/R module elements to transmit or receive mode and to steer the array beam to a desired direction. Command signals to steer the array beam include phase slopes common to all T/R modules in a given array or subarray. Each T/R module may include a beam steering control function to convert phase slope data to phase data. Phase data is then used to set the phase shifter element for that particular T/R module to a phase-shift setting required for a desired beam direction [31].
It is highly desirable to minimize the control signal lines for each module. As a result, each T/R module has some level of module controller that is implemented with a silicon-based integrated circuit. The module controller may be as simple as a commercially available serial to parallel converter or as complicated as a custom application specific integrated circuit (ASIC). Data is clocked in to each module through the serial data lines. Most module controller circuits have on-board random access memory (RAM) to store next beam data.
T/R modules, for defense radars, typically have high power amplifiers that require significant dc power during the transmit cycle of operation. Since the drain voltage of GaAs-based HPAs is in the 8 to 12-V range, relatively high dc is required. High-current requirements result in the need to use larger and heavier conductors to route current throughout the radar while minimizing voltage drop. Each T/R module has a bank of capacitors to store energy that can help supply current during the transmit pulse to minimize voltage droop during the pulse. Voltage droop equates to RF output power droop. Power conditioning is especially critical for long-pulse waveforms.
In order to maximize the overall T/R module efficiency, it is common to turn off the drain voltage to the transmit amplifiers immediately after the transmit pulse is sent and then only turn on the drain voltage immediately prior to sending out the next RF pulse. HEXFETs are used for this purpose and are key components within the power conditioning group of circuits. HEXFETs are silicon-based power MOSFETs characterized by very high gain and extremely fast switching characteristics. They are ideal for the drain switch application and can support the T/R module voltage and current requirements. They are gated on and off by the module controller circuitry in the module or a controller located on the LRU.
2.7 Conclusions
In this chapter, the early history of T/R modules for defense radars was discussed. The shortcomings associated with using silicon components at X-band frequencies were identified. The role that all of the major RF components play in a T/R module assembly was covered in detail and their key performance parameters were discussed. System-level performance parameters were assessed in terms of individual module performance and it was observed that the T/R modules could have lower dynamic range than the system requirements due to the decorrelated noise properties of the active array architecture. Module control and power conditioning were discussed and their importance in achieving higher efficiency was identified. With the exception of the circulator and the limiter, the other RF components constituting the RF chipset in T/R modules are compound semiconductors at frequencies above a few gigahertz. These components are usually integrated circuits. The next chapter focuses on these monolithic microwave integrated circuits and the processes by which they are fabricated.
Problems
2.1What was the name of the first active electronically scanned array? What company built the T/R modules and what semiconductor technology was used for the RF components? What was the frequency band of operation?
2.2List all of the RF components in a typical RF module and identify at least one key or unique performance parameter associated with each component.
2.3Given the component gains and losses as shown in Figure 2.3, calculate the required output power of each power amplifiers if the module output power is 40W. Determine the required input RF drive level for the module.
2.4Assume that the common leg circuit in Figure 2.3 is replaced by a discrete phase shifter having the characteristics in Table 2.2 and a discrete attenuator having the characteristics shown in Table 2.3. If the T/R switches are also replaced by ones having the characteristics shown in Table 2.1, calculate the required RF input power needed to deliver 40W out of the module in the 6-GHz to 8-GHz band.
2.5Search for a manufacturer's datasheet for a gallium arsenide-based driver amplifier sold as bare die and find out the procedures that must be followed to properly bias the amplifier without damage. Explain why a specific turn-on and turn-off sequence is required.
2.6What is the recommended quiescent operating point (both current and voltage) for the power amplifier described in Table 2.5 and describe how you would set the amplifier at that quiescent point.
2.7For the amplifier whose characteristics are shown in Figure 2.16, determine the optimum input RF drive level. How much gain compression is the amplifier in at your optimum drive level? What is the output power and associated power added-efficiency?
2.8If 100W are going through a circulator to an antenna element and the antenna element becomes disconnected, nearly all the power will be reflected back into third port of the circulator. If the third port is terminated in a load, the circulator becomes what is called an isolator and essentially all of the power will be absorbed in the load. If the isolation is 20 dB, how much power will be seen by a device connected to the input port?
2.9Assume the noise figure of a system is 30, the OIP3 is +25 dBm, the system bandwidth is 100 kHz, and the gain (G) is 10 dB. What is the input noise floor of the system? What is the SFDR of the system?
2.10If the input return loss of a driver amplifier is −8 dB, calculate the VSWR and the percentage power reflected.
References
[1]Borkowski, M. T., "Solid-State Transmitters," Radar Handbook, 3rd ed., Ch. 11, New York: McGraw-Hill, 2008.
[2]McQuiddy, D. N., Jr., et al., "Transmit/Receive Module Technology for X-Band Active Array Radar," Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 19, No. 3, March 1991, pp. 308-341.
[3]Hyltin, T., "The Beginnings of Solid State Radar," IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, Vol. 36, No. 3, July 2000, pp. 1016-1019.
[4]Kolias, N., and M. T. Borkowski, "The Development of T/R Modules for Radar Applications," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium Digest, Montreal, QC, Canada, June 17-22, 2012, pp. 1-3.
[5]Holt, D. J., "Solid State Transmit/Receive Module for the PAVE PAWS (AN/FPS-115) Phased Array Radar," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium Digest, Ottawa, ON, Canada, June 27-29, 1978, pp. 239-241.
[6]Verryt, E., "Surface Radar Affordability," Proceedings of the 1999 Defense Manufacturing Conference, Miami Beach, FL, November 29-December 2, 1999.
[7]Snoeijl, P., et al., "C-Band Solid State Dual Polarization T/R Modules for Airborne SAR Applications," Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium Digest, Pasadena, CA, August 8-12, 1994, Vol. 3, pp. 1365-1367.
[8]Bahl, I., and P. Bhartia, Microwave Solid State Circuit Design, Ch. 8, New York: Wiley, 1988.
[9]Qorvo datasheet for a TGS2354 0.5-6.0 GHz 40W GaN Switch.
[10]Kopp, B., M. Borkowski, and G. Jerinic, "Transmit/Receive Modules," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 50, No. 3, March 2002 pp. 827-834.
[11]Moore, C., and B. Kopp, "Phase and Amplitude Noise Due to Analog Control Components," Microwave J., December 1998, pp. 64-72.
[12]Modeled after Hittite Microwave Corporation datasheet for a HMC642 GaAs MMIC 6-Bit digital phase shifter.
[13]Dai, Y., et al., "6~18 GHz GaAs PHEMT 6-bit MMIC Digital Phase Shifter," 2012 International Symposium on Communication and Information Technologies, 2012, pp. 455- 458.
[14]Simon, K., et al., "A Production Ready, 6-18-Ghz, 5-B Phase Shifter with Integrated CMOS Compatible Digital Interface Circuitry," IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, Vol. 27, No. 10, 1992, pp. 1452-1456.
[15]Rose, P., and C. Finlay, "Reducing Clutter in Airborne Radars Equipped with Active Electronically Steered Array Antennas by Using a Novel Receive Aperture Weighting," IEEE 2008 Radar Conference, Rome, Italy, May 26-30, 2008, pp. 1-5.
[16]Hansen, R., Phased Array Antennas, New York: Wiley, 2009.
[17]Hittite Microwave Corporation datasheet for a HMC425 GaAs MMIC 6-Bit digital attenuator.
[18]van Vliet, F., and A. de Boer, "Fully-Integrated Core Chip for X-Band Phased-Array T/R Modules," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium Digest, Fort Worth, TX, June 6-11, 2004, pp. 1753-1756.
[19]UMS CHC3014 X-band transmit/receive core chip datasheet.
[20]Berg, H., et al., "Silicon-Germanium for Phased Array Radars," Proceedings of the 3rd European Microwave Integrated Circuits Conference, Amsterdam, the Netherlands, October 2008, pp. 266-269.
[21]Mitchell, M., "An X-Band SiGe Single-MMIC Transmit/Receive Module for Radar Applications," Proc. Radar 2007, 2007, pp. 664-669.
[22]Cripps, S., RF Power Amplifiers for Wireless Communications, Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2006.
[23]Bahl, I., RF and Microwave Transistor Amplifiers, New York: Wiley, 2009.
[24]Grebennikov, A., and N. Sokal, Switchmode RF Power Amplifiers, Amsterdam: Elsevier/Newnes, 2007.
[25]Sokal, N., and A. Sokal, "Class E-A New Class of High-Efficiency Tuned Single-Ended Switching Power Amplifiers," IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, Vol. 10, No. 3, June 1975, pp. 168-176.
[26]Harris, M., T. Wallace, and R. Howard, "GaN-based Components for Transmit/Receive Modules in Active Electronically Scanned Arrays," CS Mantech Conference Digest, May 13-16, 2013, New Orleans, LA, pp. 99-101.
[27]Rodrigue, G. P., "A Generation of Microwave Ferrite Devices," Proc. IEEE, Vol. 76, No. 2, 1988, pp. 121-137.
[28]Fundamentals of RF and Microwave Noise Figure Measurements, Keysight Technologies Application Note 57-1. http://literature.cdn.keysight.com/litweb/pdf/5952-8255E.pdf
[29]Friis, H. T., "Noise Figures of Radio Receivers," Proc. of the IRE, July 1944, pp. 419-422.
[30]Pozar, D. M., Microwave Engineering, New York: John Wiley, 2012.
[31]U.S. Patent US 2010/0073233 A1, R. Young, et al. "Transmit/Receive Module Communication and Control Architecture for Active Array," March 25, 2010.







3
Semiconductors for T/R Modules
3.1 Introduction
RF and millimeter-wave solid-state devices and circuits make it possible to realize modern AESAs. Selecting the best technology to meet the performance, reliability, cost, and obsolescence objectives requires an understanding of the semiconductor options that are available. Decisions must be based on the understanding that a particular technology may not be suitable for a particular application due to its performance at that frequency. This chapter provides information on the semiconductors that are typically used in T/R modules.
The decision on which semiconductor technology to use occurs early in the development of the phased array. Until recently, the choice was straightforward because there was only one choice available for use, particularly at 6 GHz and above. Today there are several semiconductor technologies that must be considered and the choices that are made may have long-term ramifications, particularly in major defense acquisition programs that may have logistical and support requirements that last more than 20 years.
This chapter discusses the basic semiconductor materials that are available and describes how the active layers that are used to make devices are grown on the starting material. Wafer fabrication processes that are common to many of the technology choices are discussed. Specific transistor technologies are covered and materials and device optimization are described showing how that, with bandgap engineering, conflicting requirements have been resolved.
3.2 Semiconductor Materials
3.2.1 GaAs
Chapter 2 discussed the challenges of building T/R modules for X-band AESAs using silicon-based electronics. The overall power efficiency of the MERA and RASSR phased array systems was low because of the microwave performance attainable with silicon devices [1]. As a result, efforts focused on development of other semiconductors that would have higher performance than silicon at microwave frequencies. GaAs was an attractive candidate for microwave and millimeter-wave devices because of its electron transport properties.
GaAs is a compound semiconductor composed of elemental gallium (Ga) and the elemental arsenic (As). GaAs was first produced by Goldschmidt and reported in 1929 [2]. The primary benefit of GaAs comes from its electron-dynamic properties. In equivalently doped n-type GaAs and silicon, the effective mass of the electrons in GaAs is far less than that in Si. This means that the electrons in GaAs are accelerated to higher velocities and therefore transverse the transistor channel in less time. This improvement in electron mobility is the fundamental property that enables higher-frequency operation.
GaAs is a direct bandgap semiconductor, which means that the minimum of the conduction band is directly over the maximum of the valence band. Transitions between the valence band and the conduction band require only a change in energy, and no change in momentum, unlike the indirect bandgap semiconductor such as silicon. This property makes GaAs very useful for the manufacture of light-emitting diodes and semiconductor lasers, since a photon is emitted when an electron changes the energy level from the conduction band to valence band. Applications other than microwave and millimeter-wave devices help to lower the cost of the basic semiconductor substrate.
In the growth of bulk GaAs, elemental forms of gallium (Ga) and arsenic (As), plus small amounts of dopant material (silicon, tellurium, or chromium) react at elevated temperatures to form ingots of doped single crystal GaAs. Three primary methods of ingot production are used:
1.Horizontal Bridgeman (HB);
2.Gradient freeze (GF);
3.Liquid-encapsulated Czochralski (LEC Cz).
Early production of GaAs wafers was performed by reacting As vapor with Ga metal at elevated temperatures, in sealed quartz ampoules. An arsenic reservoir, at one end of the ampoule, was heated to approximately 600°C to produce 1 atmopshere of As vapor pressure in the system. The As vapor reacted with the Ga metal, which was heated to approximately 1,260°C located at the other end of the ampoule. After the reaction was complete, single-crystal growth occurred by programmed cooling (gradient freeze) or by physically moving either the ampoule or furnace to provide proper temperature gradients for growth (horizontal Bridgeman). This indirect approach of arsenic transport for compounding and growth of GaAs was used because the high vapor pressure of As at its melting point is ~20 atm at 812°C and is ~60 atm at the GaAs melting point of 1,238°C. This indirect method of GaAs crystal growth produces wafers that are D-shaped and are not well suited to the photolithographic steps in the wafer fabrication processes.
Commercial production of bulk single-crystal semi-insulating GaAs is performed by liquid-encapsulated Czochralski technique (LEC). A high-pressure Cz crystal puller is loaded with elemental Ga and As along with a pellet of boron trioxide. At 460°C the boron trioxide melts to form a thick, viscous liquid that coats or encapsulates the entire melt, including the crucible. This layer, in combination with the pressure in the crystal puller, prevents sublimation of the volatile group V element. The temperature is increased until the compound synthesizes. A seed crystal is then dipped, through the boron trioxide layer, into the melt. The seed is rotated and slowly withdrawn and a single crystal propagates from the seed as shown in Figure 3.1 [3]. GaAs boules as large as seven inches in diameter and several feet long are possible with this technique [4]. This growth technique results in round wafers that are well suited to automated wafer fabrication processes.
GaAs boules are first characterized for crystal orientation, dislocation density, and resistivity. The seed and tail of the boules are removed and the boules are ground to the proper diameter. Flats are ground along the entire length of the boules to denote crystal orientation. By convention, the largest or primary flat is ground perpendicular to <110> direction [5]. After grinding the flats, the boules are dipped into an etchant to remove damage caused by the grinding process. The boules are then sliced into wafers using specialized dicing saws. Figure 3.2 shows the standard wafer orientation for semi-insulating GaAs. The front face is the <100> direction or 2° off <100> toward the <110> direction.
GaAs wafers are typically 20 to 25 mils thick depending on their diameter. They are then polished on one or both sides, cleaned and individually packaged and sealed in a plastic bag under an inert atmosphere. These wafers are then considered "epi ready" wafers, meaning that they are ready for the epitaxial layer that will ultimately be used to form the microwave or millimeter-wave transistors and other components.
Bulk GaAs material for producing components for T/R modules must be semi-insulating, which is another name for high resistivity. Semi-insulating GaAs for use as substrates for MESFETs must meet the following requirements:


Figure 3.1 Liquid-encapsulated Czochralski (LEC) system for GaAs boule growth. (After: [3].)



Figure 3.2 <100> GaAs wafer orientation showing primary and secondary flats.

1.Thermal stability (must maintain high resistivity during the epitaxial growth process);
2.No undesirable substrate active layer interface effects (looping current-voltage characteristics, back-gating effects, light sensitivity);
3.No outdiffusion of substrate impurities that could degrade the active layer;
4.Lowest possible total impurity concentration;
5.Lowest possible density of crystalline defects (dislocations and stacking faults) [6].
Achieving these requirements was difficult even during the production of early X-band radars using GaAs MESFET technology. As a result, thick undoped buffer layers were grown during the epitaxial process to minimize these substrate effects.
An n-type layer of GaAs, deposited on top of the semi-insulating substrate described above, is necessary to produce a GaAs transistor as shown in Figure 3.3. This n-type layer is called the active layer and is grown on the semi-insulating substrate by one of several epitaxial processes. Epitaxy is a process of growing single crystal layers of material on a single crystal starting wafer. During the epitaxy process, dopant atoms are introduced to change the resistivity of the material. Vapor phase epitaxy was used in the 1970s and early 1980s to grow device layers on GaAs. This process is based on material transport to a heated substrate by a chemical vapor process. Other types of epitaxial growth are discussed in the next section.
The active layer is produced by introducing an impurity atom during the growth process. N-type dopants include sulfur, silicon, and selenium. The active layers for GaAs MESFETs used in amplifiers for T/R modules are on the order of 2,500 angstroms thick. The growth rate in a GaAs VPE process is in the range of 10 to 25 microns per hour, so it only takes about 1 minute to grow the active layer. As a result, this process is somewhat difficult to control. Figure 3.4 shows a typical doping profile of an epi layer for a GaAs MESFET [6]. The critical parameters are the peak carrier concentration in this case ~7 × 1016 cm-2, the thickness of the active region (0.25 micron), and buffer layer concentration (~7 × 1015 cm-2). An important factor that is not obvious is the slope of the carrier concentration profile as a function of distance. This determines how well the gate can control the charge in the channel and how uniform the transconductance characteristics will be. A sharper slope results in better FET performance.


Figure 3.3 GaAs MESFET structure showing the n-type epitaxial layer.



Figure 3.4 Active layer and buffer layer profile of a GaAs epitaxial layer used for GaAs MESFETs. (After: [6].)

Surface morphology of the epi layer is also an important characteristic of the wafer system that will be used to fabricate both discrete transistors and monolithic microwave integrated circuits for RF components used in T/R modules. Planar epitaxial layers that are free from hillocks, spikes, pyramids, and other microscopically visible defects are essential to obtaining high yield during the fabrication process and to minimize latent defects that could cause early failure during use. Epi defects are mainly due to particulates on the surface prior to epi growth, imperfections due to polishing the wafer, and contamination from the epi process itself. Contamination during the epi process may be due to "spitting" of the source material and particulates that may be dislodged from the epi growth chamber sidewalls. Figure 3.5 is an example of an epi defect on the wafer surface [7]. These features may be on the order of a few microns tall and, in particular, can cause "killer" defects in thin dielectric layers used for metal-insulator-metal (MIM) capacitors on MMICs.


Figure 3.5 Example of an epitaxial defect that caused failure of an MIM capacitor. (© 2004 CS Mantech. Reprinted, with permission, from [7].)

3.2.2 Heterostructures
Homogenous semiconductors, like the GaAs epi structure described above, have limitations with regard to carrier transport and carrier concentration. Ideally, it is desirable to have much higher carrier concentration than ~7 × 1016 cm−2 shown in Figure 3.4. However, as additional dopant atoms are added to increase the carrier concentration, the speed at which the electrons move in the layer is reduced due to collisions with the parent atoms. Heterostructures were developed to overcome these limitations. Heterostructures are composite semiconductor structures consisting of two or more layers of different materials grown on top of one another. They are normally grown by either metal-organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) or by molecular beam epitaxy (MBE). A large number of bandgap-engineered composite semiconductors, having a wide bandgap range, are possible with these growth techniques as shown in Figure 3.6.
Bandgap engineering of composite structures results in transistor material systems that have high carrier concentration and high electron mobility. Transistors made with these layer structures are called high electron mobility transistors (HEMTs) if they are lattice-matched as shown in Figure 3.6. If the composite structure is composed of materials having different lattice constants, the resulting material is "strained" and enhanced electron transport properties are possible. These materials are called pseudomorphic and transistors made with them are psuedomorphic high electron mobility transistors (PHEMTs), which are widely used in many T/R modules for both power amplifiers and low-noise amplifiers. A pseudomorphic HEMT epi layer is shown in Figure 3.7. This particular layer structure is intended for a GaAs PHEMT power amplifier and utilizes a double pulsed doped structure and has an InGaAs channel [8]. It should be noted that the layer structures are very thin (20 angstroms) in some cases as shown in Figure 3.7. In order to achieve these precise growth parameters, advanced epitaxial growth processes are required. MBE and MOCVD are described below.


Figure 3.6 Energy bandgap and lattice constant of various compound semiconductors and heterostructures.



Figure 3.7 Double pulsed doped pseudomorphic HEMT layer structure.

MBE growth is, in essence, a refined form of vacuum evaporation and was first demonstrated in 1969 by researchers at Bell Labs. Figure 3.8 shows a schematic diagram of an MBE reactor. Source materials are heated in crucibles called effusion cells and directed beams of atoms or molecules condense on a heated single crystal substrate where they react chemically under ultrahigh vacuum (10−11 Torr baseline) conditions. If the substrate is of the same type material as the deposited layer, the process is called homo-epitaxy. If the single crystal epitaxial layers are a different semiconductor from the substrate, the process is called hetero-epitaxy. The molecular beam or flux emanating from the cells is controlled by precise control of the temperature and the flux arriving at the sample may be regulated by appropriate shutters in front of the cells as shown in Figure 3.8. Growth rates as slow as 5 μm/h are possible, which allows the electronic transport properties to be controlled at the monolayer scale. The ability to tailor the materials properties during epitaxial growth leads to enhanced device performance that will be discussed in the next section. For additional information on MBE, consult [8, 9].


Figure 3.8 Schematic diagram of an MBE growth chamber.

MBE epitaxial layers for PHEMT devices may be grown in-house by companies that are vertically integrated to do so. Some companies that build T/R modules have the capability to grow the epitaxial layers, fabricate the MMICs, assemble them into modules, and insert the modules into an AESA. There are companies whose sole business is to provide MBE epi services to any customer.
MOCVD is a chemical vapor deposition process, used for compound semiconductors, in which ultrapure gases are injected into a reactor and precisely controlled to deposit thin layers of atoms onto a heated semiconductor wafer. The ultrapure source gases are metalorganics such as trimethylgallium (TMG) and trimethylarsine (TMA). These metalorganics and hydrides containing the required chemical elements react at the semiconductor wafer surface and under the proper conditions produce crystalline epitaxial growth.
MOCVD reactor components include reactor walls, liner, susceptor, gas injection units, and temperature control units as shown in Figure 3.9. Reactor walls are typically made from stainless steel or quartz. Ceramic or quartz is used as the liner in the reactor chamber between the reactor wall and the susceptor. Coolant, flowing through the channels within the reactor walls, prevents overheating of the chamber. Single crystal substrates sit on a susceptor, which is precisely controlled at a high temperature. Graphite is most often used as the susceptor because of its high-temperature properties, its high thermal conductivity and its resistance to the metalorganic compounds. When growing nitrides, a special coating on the graphite susceptor is necessary to prevent corrosion by ammonia (NH3) gas.
Two types of reactors are used for MOCVD. One type of reactor is a cold-wall reactor. In a cold-wall reactor, the substrate is supported by a pedestal, which also acts as a susceptor. The pedestal/susceptor is the primary origin of heat energy in the reaction chamber. Only the susceptor is heated, so gases do not react before they reach the hot wafer surface. The pedestal/susceptor is made of a radiation-absorbing material such as carbon. In contrast, the walls of the reaction chamber in a cold-wall reactor are typically made of quartz, which is largely transparent to the electromagnetic radiation.
The other type of reactor is a hot-wall reactor in which the entire chamber is heated. This may be necessary to "pre-crack" or break the methyl bonds in the metalorganic gases before reaching the wafer surface to allow them to stick to the wafer.


Figure 3.9 Schematic diagram of an MOCVD system.

In comparing MOCVD to MBE, MOCVD is a higher throughput system than MBE and will result in lower cost if the grown layer structures meet the requirements. MOCVD growth rates are four to five times faster than MBE growth rates. MBE systems are much more complex than MOCVD systems and, as a result, are more susceptible to downtime. Material purity and defect densities are two important parameters that must be considered when growing devices. In general, MBE has demonstrated better control of the background carrier concentration than MOCVD. MBE layers have about 10 times less interdiffusion than layers grown by MOCVD. The PHEMT double-pulsed doped layer structure shown in Figure 3.7 is probably not possible to grow by MOCVD.
Surface defect density has always been a problem for MBE growth while most MOCVD systems have the ability to overcome this particular problem. MOCVD can routinely produce defect densities of 10 to 50/cm2. MBE has defect densities on the order of 100 to 200/cm2. MBE in general will have better uniformity over a full 4- to 6-inch diameter substrate than MOCVD. However, MOCVD is the most significant epitaxial growth process for III-V semiconductors based on GaN.
3.2.3 SiC
Silicon carbide is a wide bandgap semiconductor that can provide breakthrough performance for high-power electronics due to its bandgap of 3.2 eV for 4HSiC at room temperature compared to 1.1 eV for silicon. This property alone is responsible for the thermally generated leakage currents in SiC to be over 10 orders of magnitude lower than silicon. Thus, devices made with SiC can be operated at much higher temperatures before thermal leakage current dominates. The wide bandgap of SiC results in a breakdown field that is 10 times higher than silicon or gallium arsenide, leading to devices that have breakdown voltages of 100V instead of 10V.
SiC has a thermal conductivity of 3.9 W/cm-K that is a factor of 2.6 higher than silicon. This property permits SiC devices to dissipate the internally generated heat much more efficiently than conventional semiconductors. High thermal conductivity of SiC is a major reason that this material is being considered as a substrate for other wide bandgap materials such as gallium nitride.
These properties of SiC make it well suited to applications that include blue light-emitting diodes (LEDs), power transistors and circuits, high-temperature electronics, and high-power microwave devices. However, the durability and refractory nature of silicon carbide that make it a desirable semiconductor material increase the difficulty in fabricating devices. Device fabrication steps such as etching and electrical contact formation are difficult.
Early RF transistor work in SiC was performed by researchers at Cree and in 1996 they reported silicon carbide MESFETs with 2 W/mm of RF output power and 50% power-added efficiency at 1.8 GHz [10]. They also reported higher-power results in 1999 with 80W output power at S-band frequencies [11]. One drawback to SiC for use in microwave devices is its poor low-field electron mobility, which is in the range of 500 to 900 cm2/V-sec. This results in a larger source resistance and lower transconductance than gallium arsenide devices. This is partially offset by the ability to operate SiC at extremely high electric fields. However, with the development of GaN HEMT technology and its advantages over SiC MESFETs, there is little effort to use SiC in T/R modules except for substrates to support GaN epitaxial layers.
3.2.4 GaN
Future defense and communication systems will likely need substantially more power and bandwidth than the levels provided by present solid-state amplifiers based on Si and GaAs. This is particularly true for radar phased arrays where the available area for the antenna is constrained. GaN has materials properties including higher saturation current, higher operating voltage, and higher operating temperature that make it attractive for these applications. GaN transistors have demonstrated power densities of over 5 W/mm at X-band, which is a factor of 5 or greater than today's most advanced GaAs PHEMT devices. Thin active layers of GaN are typically deposited on SiC substrates by MOCVD as discussed above. Since the ensemble is mostly SiC, it has much better thermal conductivity than Si or GaAs, which is essential for handling the increased dissipated power density.
Performance improvements of GaN on SiC are a result of the basic materials properties of GaN and SiC as shown in Table 3.1. The bandgap of GaN is large compared to Si or GaAs, thereby permitting transistor operation at higher temperatures and higher drain voltages before breakdown. The saturated electron velocity is a factor of 2 higher than Si or GaAs and the breakdown voltage is also almost a factor of 2 higher. The electron mobility and the saturation velocity typically govern electron transport. From a thermal perspective, SiC has a thermal conductivity of ~8.5 times better than GaAs.

Table 3.1
Key Material Properties of Semiconductors Related to RF and Millimeter-Wave Performance


3.2.5 InP
Indium phosphide has been used as a substrate material for fabricating high-performance transistors and circuits as a result of material properties that allow a higher percentage of In in the channel than the strained layer heterostructure systems grown on a GaAs substrate. This results in higher switching speed and lower noise figure than GaAs-based systems. Much of the early work on InP was reported by researchers at Hughes Research Laboratories. GaInAs/AlnAs layers grown by MBE on InP substrates resulted in devices with unity gain cutoff frequencies of 250 GHz and noise figures of 0.8 dB at 60 GHz [12]. Detailed discussion of InP-based devices can be found in the book HEMTs & HBTs by Ali and Gupta [13].
Even though InP-based components have performance advantages over GaAs for some T/R module functions, they have not been used in typical phased arrays due to higher cost and lack of suppliers. However, in an analysis of technologies for a space-based radar (SBR), InP-based circuits were found to be the preferred technology for an X-band low power module [14].
3.2.6 SiGe
SiGe is an epitaxial material that is selectively grown on a silicon wafer by MBE or MOCVD. This is another example of bandgap engineering similar to GaAs PHEMT except in silicon. SiGe's electron transport properties are due to the fact that it is a strained layer. A graded bandgap Ge layer is deposited into the base region of a Si bipolar transistor. This results in a smaller bandgap that increases electron injection, which increases the gain. The field from the graded base bandgap decreases the base transit time resulting in higher-speed switching. SiGe epi, in the base region, is key to fabrication of SiGe hetrojunction bipolar transistors that are used in concert with Si CMOS resulting in a BiCMOS process.
BiCMOS is being used for phase shifters, attenuators, core chips, and even single-chip T/R modules in an effort to reduce cost. Use of BiCMOS has been driven by advances in BiCMOS foundry processes by IBM, GLOBAL-FOUNDRIES, and TowerJazz.
3.3 RF Semiconductor Wafer Fabrication Processes
The semiconductor-based RF components used in T/R modules are produced in a batch process called wafer fabrication. This applies to all of the material systems described above. For GaAs, SiC, GaN, and InP-based devices, the most common transistor structure is a Schottky barrier gate process shown in Figure 3.3. Simplified process steps required to make these transistors are shown in Figure 3.10. Four-inch or 6-inch diameter wafers that already have the epitaxial layer deposited on them by one of the methods described above are introduced into the wafer fabrication line. The sections below describe these key wafer fabrication processes.
3.3.1 Isolation
The first process is an isolation step that electrically isolates the conductive regions on the wafer from adjacent conductive regions. This is normally done by etching in which regions not intended for active areas are removed. The active regions remain and are elevated above the rest of the surface leading to the term "mesa." Etching depths are typically on the order of 0.3 to 0.5 micron. Isolation can also be accomplished by an ion implantation process in which the region between the active areas is made electrically resistive by the implant process. In this case there is no mesa so some method is required to identify where the implant was done. This can be done by a light etch or a metal pattern.
3.3.2 Ohmic Contacts
Drain and source regions of the transistor are next formed by selectively depositing metals on the active regions of the semiconductor wafer. Low contact resistance between the metal and the semiconductor is critical to achieving high performance at RF frequencies. As a result, much effort is devoted to the ohmic contact process, which includes the ohmic metal system, semiconductor cleaning processes prior to metallization, and the subsequent alloying conditions. For GaAs PHEMT devices, ohmic contact metal systems that have been used include a tri-metal stack of gold-germanium, nickel, and gold. Alloy conditions are 450°C for 30 seconds in a reducing atmosphere. The alloy step is preferably done in a rapid thermal processing (RTP) tool.


Figure 3.10 Simplified wafer processing steps for a Schottky barrier FET-based device or circuit.

One major drawback with the ohmic contact process described above is the resulting surface morphology and edge acuity. This roughness and poor edge definition can cause problems during subsequent fabrication steps particularly the gate patterning step. Figure 3.11 is an example of an alloyed ohmic contact. Nonalloyed ohmic contacts for GaAs MESFETs based on PdGe have been reported that improve edge acuity and surface roughness [15].
3.3.3 Gate Formation
The gate metal step is by far the most critical step in processing Schottky barrier transistors for RF devices. In order for the device to operate at high frequency, the gate length must be submicron. Advanced optical lithography processes have been developed to produce gate lengths on the order of 0.25 micron. This gate length is acceptable for devices operating up to ~18 GHz. Electron beam lithography is used to produce 0.15-micron gate lengths require for millimeter-wave devices. Gate length is defined as the smallest dimension of the device as shown in Figure 3.12. Submicron gate lengths have high resistance. As a result, a T-gate or mushroom gate structure is used to reduce the gate resistance as shown in the cross-sectional diagram in Figure 3.13.


Figure 3.11 Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) micrograph showing the morphology of an alloyed ohmic contact on GaAs.



Figure 3.12 SEM micrograph of a GaAs MESFET showing the submicron gate length and other layout features.



Figure 3.13 Cross-sectional diagram of a PHEMT device showing the bandgap-engineered epi structure and the optimized mushroom gate.

3.3.4 Dielectric Deposition
Silicon nitride (Si3N4) is used to passivate the surface of the semiconductor and for the insulator on metal-insulator-metal (MIM) capacitors. Si3N4 is normally deposited by a process called plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD). Wafers are heated to ~275°C and appropriate gases are introduced into the chamber through a showerhead in exact ratios controlled by mass flow controllers. Reaction of the gases is enhanced by the presence of an RF plasma discharge.
3.3.5 Electroplating
Additional metallization layers are deposited to build the top plate of the MIM capacitors for MMIC devices. These metal layers need to be relatively thick to handle the current, especially for high-power amplifiers. Gold electroplating is routinely used for interconnects on RF devices. A seed layer of metal is first deposited over the entire wafer and photoresist is applied and patterned to expose the seed layer in regions where thick metal is desired. Electrical connection is made to the seed layer and the entire wafer is immersed in an electroplating bath. Plated metal thicknesses can be 10 microns or more. Once the desired thickness is obtained, the photoresist layer is removed and the thin metal seed layer is etched to complete the process.
3.3.6 Air Bridges
Air bridges are routinely used in RF devices and circuits to minimize circuit parasitic capacitance. Air has a low dielectric constant compared to other materials that could be used such as Si3N4. Air bridges may be formed with a selective plating process similar to the one described above. However, an additional masking step is required prior to depositing the seed layer in order to open windows for the posts of the air bridges to connect to the underlying circuit and to provide a support surface for the seed metal that will serve as the base metal of the bridge. After the selective plating process has been completed, the top resist layer is removed, the exposed seed metal is etched and the first layer of resist is removed. Figure 3.12 shows an air bridge spanning two gate fingers and a common drain region.
Low inductance ground connections are critical to achieving high performance at microwave and millimeter-wave frequencies. This is especially important on MMICs where there are a number of transistors having source regions that need to be connected to a common ground. One way to accomplish this is to etch holes or vias through the back of the wafer in the correct locations to contact the source metallization that was previously deposited on the top side of the wafer. GaAs, GaN on SiC, SiC, and InP circuits are all processed in this manner if they are based on microstrip interconnect technology. After processing the front side of the wafer, the wafers are flipped over and mounted on a grinding pedestal with wax and ground and polished to a thickness of 4 mils (or, in special cases, to 2 mils). The wafers are removed from the grinding pedestal and mounted on a carrier wafer. Photoresist is applied to the back side of the wafer and aligned (using an IR mask aligner) and patterned to open regions that subsequently will be etched and then filled with back side metal. Etching through the substrate is usually done with a dry etch process called reactive ion etching (RIE) or inductively coupled plasma etching (ICP). One challenge with this process is to be able to stop the etch at the point that the top side source metal is exposed. Through process development, etch stop metals have been found that are not etched by the chemistries used to etch thorough the substrate. This provides a measure of wafer processing tolerance. Figure 3.14 is a diagram shows the via and the ground metal connection from the back of the wafer to the top side source metal.
3.4 Active Devices
3.4.1 GaAs MESFETs
The concept of a metal-semiconductor barrier diode was introduced by Walter Schottky in 1938 [15]. He reported formation of a potential barrier due to the difference in work function between a metal and the semiconductor. Schottky's discovery was utilized by Mead in 1966 to fabricate the first MESFET on GaAs [17].
A MESFET is a three-terminal device with metal regions on the surface defined as source, drain, and gate as shown in Figure 3.3. Drain and source regions are ohmic contacts and the gate region is a Schottky barrier contact. Electrons flow from the source to the drain through a channel. The channel is defined by doping the epitaxial layer grown on semiconductor. Flow of charge carriers in the channel is controlled by a negative voltage with respect to the source on the Schottky barrier gate. MESFETs are typically depletion mode devices, meaning that they are fully on if there is no bias on the gate. The main advantages of a MESFET are high electron velocity inside the channel, small transit time leading to faster response, and fabrication of an active layer on semi-insulating GaAs substrates to decrease the parasitic capacitance. The MESFET transistor served as the basic building block for development of MMICs in the 1980s.


Figure 3.14 Cross-sectional diagram of a via connected source to back-side metal.

The primary figure of merit for the switching speed of MESFET and HEMT devices is the unity current gain frequency. This parameter is defined as:

where gm is the transconductance and Cg is the gate to source capacitance.

where Ids is the drain to source current and Vgs is the gate to source voltage
But

where nchannel is the channel carrier concentration, μn is the mobility of the carriers, Wg is the gate width and Lg is the gate length.
Based on (3.1), it is clear that in order to make a high-speed device, gm should be maximized and Cgs should be minimized. Since gm is the change in drain current as a function of a change in gate voltage, the device should have a large number of carriers and those carriers should have high mobility and should all be located in a confined channel very close to the Schottky barrier gate. In this manner, a small change in gate voltage can switch a large number of carriers, and if the gate capacitance is made small, this can occur quickly.
However, in a GaAs MESFET with a uniformly doped channel, the channel concentration and the mobility are inversely related. The more carriers we introduce in the epi process, the lower the mobility becomes because the electrons collide with the parent atoms used to dope the channel.
3.4.2 GaAs PHEMTs
Hetrostructure devices were developed to overcome the material limitations of GaAs MESFETs described above. Figure 3.13 shows the PHEMT material system and the device optimization that has been done during the wafer fabrication processes. In this case, an undoped InGaAs channel is grown on top of an undoped GaAs buffer layer. This is followed by an AlGaAs spacer layer that may be as thin as 20 angstroms. The silicon planar doping region provides doping concentration of 5 × 1012 carriers per cm2. In order to reach the lowest energy state in this system, the electrons separate from their parent silicon atoms and fall into the InGaAs channel. In this manner, high electron concentration is achieved while maintaining high electron mobility.
With respect to device optimization during wafer processing, the gate length is made very narrow (0.15 micron) and the gate resistance is lowered by use of a "T" or mushroom gate. Transconductance is improved by recessing the gate metal closer to the channel so that a small gate voltage change can make a large change in the drain to source current. In some devices, a second larger recess is used to improve the device breakdown voltage. Another optimization step that may be included in the processing is a field plate, which is a metal plate extending over the region between the gate and drain and connected to the source. This is called a source connected field plate and is used to minimize the peak electric field in the gate-drain region. However, the trade-off in using a field plate is increased gate capacitance.
Material advances and device optimization resulted in RF output power density increases from 0.7 W/mm of gate width to over 1.5 W/mm with little increased cost in terms of wafer processing. As a result, PHEMT technology superseded the MESFET device market in the mid-1990s.
3.4.3 GaN HEMTs
In the late 1990s and early 2000s, significant work was performed to develop high-voltage transistors based on GaN. Eastman reported that unintentionally doped AlGaN grown by OMVPE on GaN on sapphire could produce a strong spontaneous polarization difference between the AlGaN and GaN materials [18]. When the AlGaN is pseudomorphically strained, a strong piezoelectric polarization also is present and together they induce ~1 × 1013/cm2 electrons in the two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG). Hall mobilities of 1,200 to 1,600 cm2/V-S were measured [18]. Figure 3.15 shows a representative GaN HEMT structure on SiC.
One of the early hurdles to developing GaN HEMTs was the fact that there was no native GaN substrate on which to grow epi for devices. Sapphire and SiC substrates were used; however, the SiC substrates were not ideal at that time due to micropipe defects that were actually small holes that extended through the entire wafer from front to back. Sapphire was very pure and device yields were acceptable; however, the thermal conductivity of the substrate was poor. DARPA's Wide Bandgap Semiconductor (WBGS) program helped solve many of the materials and device problems and accelerated maturation and insertion of this technology.


Figure 3.15 GaN HEMT device cross-section.

GaN HEMT devices and circuits operate at 28V to 40V and can change the way power is routed thorough a phased array radar. RF output power densities at X-band are easily a factor of 5 higher than the best GaAs PHEMTs as shown in Figure 3.16. This may permit smaller, lighter-weight T/R modules to be built that have the same or better transmit performance than GaAs PHEMT-based modules.
Fabrication of GaN HEMT-based devices and circuits is very similar to GaAs circuits and in fact the same wafer processing equipment may be used for both. Some microwave and millimeter-wave semiconductor suppliers are processing GaN wafers in the same facility as GaAs. Process steps discussed earlier for GaAs MESFETs apply to GaN. However, the ohmic metallizations, gate metallizations and etching chemistries are different. GaN on SiC is transparent so special considerations are required, particularly during the exposure steps during mask to wafer alignment.


Figure 3.16 Comparison of the power density of various SF semiconductor device technologoies.

3.5 MMICs
Monolithic microwave integrated circuits are integrated circuits that combine multiple RF or millimeter-wave transistors, capacitors, inductor and resistors on a single substrate or chip. The term monolithic means "single stone." MMICs operate at microwave and millimeter-wave frequencies and require that interconnect or transmission lines be modeled and designed as circuit elements. Careful consideration must be made with regard to the bends and corners of the interconnects. Matching networks are required to assure that signals propagate through the circuit rather than being reflected back toward the source.
All of the semiconductor circuit components for T/R modules discussed in Chapter 2 can be implemented in MMICs. These circuits allow module fabrication to be simplified (fewer parts) and allow modules to be produced at a lower cost. Phased array radar apertures using T/R modules with MMICs are currently being used in operational systems. MMIC components such as power amplifiers, low-noise amplifiers, switches, phase shifters, and attenuators are now made using MMIC technology in a variety of III-V compounds semiconductor materials such as GaAs, InP, SiC, GaN on SiC, and SiGe BICMOS.
Rapid advancement in MMIC technology occurred from 1988 to 1994 as a result of the Microwave and Millimeter Monolithic Integrated Circuits (MIMIC) program. DoD invested over $500 million improving MMIC production capability in the United States under the MIMIC program. During this program, the cost of the MMIC components was reduced by roughly 10 times [19]. The ability to consistently produce MMIC components with the required performance, quality and reliability was greatly increased. This program was a major factor in moving AESAs from R&D to fielded radar systems.
3.6 Conclusions
Advances in compound semiconductor materials, devices and MMICs have made it possible to achieve the RF performance required to build T/R modules that meet AESA system requirements. Epitaxial growth of heterostructures by MBE and MOCVD permit high doping concentration and high mobility simultaneously resulting in performance not possible with homoepitaxy. Development of GaN on SiC provides revolutionary increase in RF output power while mitigating thermal dissipation through higher efficiency and better substrate thermal conductivity.
Problems
3.1What are the three bulk materials growth processes for GaAs? Which processes is preferred for substrates for MMIC processing and why?
3.2What is bandgap engineering and give an example? What important materials constraint is solved by bandgap engineering?
3.3Calculate the unity current gain frequency of a MESFET transistor in which a 0.25-V change in gate voltage causes a 100-mA change in drain to source current if the gate capacitance is 25 picofarads?
3.4What is the primary advantage of fabricating GaN HEMTs on SiC substrates?
3.5What is a via and why is it used in a MMIC process?
References
[1] McQuiddy, Jr., D. N., et al., "Transmit/Receive Module Technology for X-Band Active Array Radar," Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 19, No. 3, March 1991, pp. 308-341.
[2] Goldschmidt, V., "Crystal Structure and Chemical Constitution," Trans. Faraday Society, Vol. 25, No. 253, 1929.
[3] www.people.seas.harvard.edu.
[4] Singh, J., Electronic and Optoelectronic Properties of Semiconductor Structures, Cambridge University Press, March 2007.
[5]Razeghi, M., Fundamentals of Solid State Engineering, 3rd edition, Springer, NY, 2008.
[6]DeLorenzo, J., and D. Khandelwal, GaAs FET Principles and Technology, Dedham, MA: Artech House, 1982.
[7]Cotronakis, J., et al., "Continuous Defectivity Improvements and Impact on High Density Metal-Insulator-Metal (HDMIM) Capacitor Yields," CS Mantech Conference Digest, 2004.
[8]Ross, R., S. Svensson, and P. Lugli, Pseudomorphic HEMT Technology and Applications, Norwell, MA: Kluwer Academic Press, 1996.
[9]Malik, R., III-V Semiconductor Materials and Devices, New York: Elsevier Publishing, 1989.
[10]Allen, S., et al., "Silicon Carbide MESFET's with 2 W/mm and 50% PAE at 1.8 GHz," IEEE MTT-S Symposium Digest, San Francisco, CA, June 1996, pp. 681-684.
[11]Allen, S., et al., "Progress in High Power SiC Microwave MESFETs," 1999 IEEE MTT-S Symposium Digest, Anaheim, CA, June 1997, pp. 321-324.
[12]Mishra, U., et al., "Novel High Performance Self-Aligned 0.15 Micron Long T-Gate AlInAs-GalnAs HEMTs," IEDM Technical Digest, 1989, pp. 5.2.1-5.2.4.
[13]Ali, F., and A. Gupta, HEMTs & HBTs, Norwood, MA: Artech House, 1991.
[14]Kazemi, H., et al., "An Ultra-Low Power Integrated T/R Module for Space-Based Radar Technology," Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE Radar Conference, 2004, pp. 6-8.
[15]Paccagnella, A., et al., "GaAs MESFETs with Nonalloyed Ohmic Contacts: Technology and Performance," Electronics Letters, Vol. 24, No. 11, May 1988, pp. 708-709.
[16]Schottky, W., "Halbleitertheorie der Sperrschicht," Naturwissenschaften, Vol. 26, No. 843, 1938.
[17]Mead, C., "Schottky Barrier Gate Field Effect Transistor," Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 54, Issue 2, February 1966, pp. 307-308.
[18]Eastman, L., "AIGaN/GaN Microwave Power HEMT's," 21st GaAs IC Symposium Digest, Monterey, CA, October 1999, pp. 15-18.
[19]Cohen, E., "The MIMIC Program—A Retrospective," IEEE Microwave Magazine, Vol. 13, No. 4, May-June 2012, pp. 77-88.







4
Signal Integrity Issues in T/R Modules
4.1 Introduction to Signal Integrity
Signal integrity is the field that studies the quality of electrical signals in analog and digital circuits. In this chapter, we will focus on the signal integrity issues that are particular to T/R modules. The signal integrity in the module is important since it may be possible to achieve excellent performance form the integrated circuits (ICs) used but if the signal integrity is lacking, then the superior ICs will not be of benefit. The study of signal integrity in T/R modules can be organized along the six major concerns:
1.Chip-level interconnects, often called first-level interconnects;
2.Package and module-level interconnects, often called second-level interconnects;
3.Transmission-line interconnects;
4.Coupling between interconnects;
5.Vertical transition Interconnects;
6.Module resonance issues.
This chapter is organized along each of the six major concerns. Let's start by examining a real-world example of a T/R module. Figure 4.1 shows an image of the all-European GaN TRM front-end module [1]. Note from the figure that the module illustrates all six of the things that are of concern for signal integrity in the module. The module is a ceramic substrate fabricated from low-temperature co-fired ceramic (LTCC) with a metal ring brazed to its surface. The metal ring forms a wall around the package and a lid is seam sealed to it to form a hermetic package.


Figure 4.1 Image of a T/R module showing the six types of signal integrity concerns for T/R modules. (© 2014 IEEE. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)

The first type of concern is chip-level interconnects. In the figure, the chip interconnect is a wire bond, which is how most chip-level interconnects are formed. However, it is also common to use ribbon bonds and flip chip. The second type of concern for T/R module signal integrity is package-level interconnects. In the figure, the package-level interconnect is actually a transition under the metal wall of the package. However, as will be shown later in this chapter, for case of a surface mount (SMT) package, the package transition is from the package to the motherboard. The third type is transmission line interconnects. They are used to carry the signal from one circuit to another within the module. The fourth type is coupling between interconnects. Coupling can occur between transmission lines and wire bonds and between circuits within the module or at the module I/O. In general, the coupling between objects with the potential to couple decreases as distance between them is increased. In these cases, electromagnetic interactions occur that affect the integrity of the signals in the module. The fifth type is vertical transition interconnects. The figure shows transitions of microstrip transmission lines to buried layer stripline, which requires a vertical transition. In this case, it is necessary to carefully design the metal and dielectric features to maximize the signal integrity. The sixth type of concern is module resonance issues. This is important since many T/R modules are constructed to form a metal enclosure. The metal enclosure can support undesired cavity-mode resonances. The resonances will appear as degradation in the module signal integrity. Proper design of the T/R module requires careful attention to the six main signal integrity concerns.
4.2 Chip-Level Interconnects
The chip level of interconnect is the connection between the integrated circuit and the rest of the module circuits. Most often, this connection is made using wire bonds or flip-chip methods, although other techniques are sometimes used. We will review how chip-level interconnects are formed, the parameters that affect signal integrity, and methods to electrically model them.
4.2.1 Wire Bonding Methods
Wire bonds are formed using a small diameter wire. Normally, the wire is 25.4 μm in diameter, although wire diameters as small as 17.8 μm and as large as 381 μm are used. The material of the wire bonds used in T/R modules is normally gold. However, the larger-diameter wire bonds are normally fabricated from aluminum, which is common in some commercial systems such as power modules. Ribbon bonding in T/R modules, when used, is normally with 75 μm × 12.5 μm ribbon though other sizes are used.
The main quality parameter for wire bonds is the force required to break the wire bond connection to either the IC or the metal pad on the motherboard. Special machines have been developed, called bond pull testers, with a small hook that pulls on the wire. The force is measured and the point at which the bond breaks is called the bond strength. MIL-STD-883 METHOD 2011.7 is often used as a specification for destructive bond pull test. MIL-STD-883 Method 2023.5 is often used as a specification for nondestructive bond pull test. Most manufacturing facilities will perform destructive wire bond testing on their machines periodically throughout the day as a process characterization and control method.
There are two types of wire bonding that is normally used. The first is ball bonding. It is illustrated in Figure 4.2(a). The characteristics of this bonding method are that the bond has a ball on one side and a stitch on the other, as shown in the figure. The ball is formed in the bonding tool and is always the initial bond. The initial bond, in essentially all cases, is on the semiconductor. The following bond is the stitch and it is always on the substrate or a component such as a capacitor. Another important characteristic of ball bonding is that the wire bond must leave the ball portion vertically and then loop over to the stitch portion. This creates long wire bonds that are a concern for high-frequency operation of the wire bond interconnect. This is because the long wire bond adds series inductance to the signal path, which is undesirable for applications operating at frequencies over a few gigahertz. In fact, most T/R modules cannot use ball bonds for the radar signal interconnects. Instead, ball bonds are normally used for low-frequency, control, and dc interconnects since ball bonds are lower-cost than most all competing IC interconnect methods.


Figure 4.2 Two types of wire bonds are normally used: (a) ball-and-stitch bonds and (b) wedge bonds. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)

The second type of wire bond is a wedge bond and it is illustrated in Figure 4.2(b). An important characteristic of wedge bonding is that the wire does not require the large loop that is characteristic of ball bonding. This is because the wedge bond lies flat and relatively parallel to the surface of the IC. This allows the wedge bond to exit the IC horizontally rather than vertically as required with the ball bonding. The reduced wire length is one of the reasons that wedge bonding is so popular for electronics operating at frequencies above a few gigahertz.
The fabrication steps for ball bonds and wedge bonds are illustrated in Figure 4.3. Note how manufacturing steps are similar with the bonding tool guiding the wire. Wedge bonding can be used for either round wire or for ribbon wire. Ribbon bonding cannot use the ball bonding process since ribbon cannot form the ball bond.
4.2.2 Wire Bond Modeling
Beyond the fabrication methods for wire bonds, it is important to understand the effects of wire bonds on the signal integrity of the module. It is also necessary to be able to properly electrically model the effects of wire bonds so that signal integrity can be predicted and optimized.
For practical concerns it is useful to have a low-fidelity model of wire bonds that can be used to make quick calculations if required. When performing detailed design of a module, a higher-fidelity model is require to accurately capture the wire bond effects. Therefore, we will develop a low-fidelity model and a high-fidelity model for a round wire bond.


Figure 4.3 A simplified illustration of the manufacturing steps for (a) balling bonding and (b) wedge bonding.

Low-Fidelity Model
The low-fidelity model treats the wire bond as a simple series inductor. This is illustrated in Figure 4.4. Note that the wire bond cross-section is shown in Figure 4.4(a) as a wire over a ground plane. Figure 4.4(b) shows the equivalent circuit which is a simple series inductor with inductance L. Considering the wire bond as a wire over ground is a convenient approach for the low-fidelity model since a closed-form equation for the inductance is available. The equation for the inductance is

where L = inductance of the wire bond, H = height of the wire over ground, and r = radius of the wire = d/2.
This low-fidelity method of modeling a wire bond was used to predict the inductance of a simple wire bond. A 3-D finite element method (FEM) simulation was conducted using HFSS and the results were compared to the low-fidelity model.


Figure 4.4 A simplified approach to a wire bond is (a) as a wire over ground and (b) to model it as a series inductor.

In the model, the wire is 0.163 mm above the ground plane, it has a diameter of 0.0254 mm, and it is 0.75 mm long. For these dimensions, (4.1) predicts an inductance of 0.489 nH. Figure 4.5 shows a comparison of the HFSS simulations to the low-fidelity model. It shows that the model has reasonable accuracy to 10 GHz on the magnitude of the scattering parameters, but the error in the phase of scattering parameters is as much as 8° at 10 GHz. At higher frequencies, the model accuracy degrades significantly. However, this simple model can be useful as an initial approximation of the wire inductance.
High-Fidelity Model
A higher-fidelity model was developed that uses additional circuit elements to account for physical effects that occur in the wire bond. For instance, the model includes the small series resistance that occurs in the wire due to the finite conductivity of the wire. The high-fidelity model also accounts for fact that the wire bond behaves like a round transmission line over ground. The effect is accounted for by using lumped capacitors. Finally, the model includes the effect of a small section of microstrip transmission line due to the wire bond pad. When all these effects are taken into account, the wire bond model is as shown in Figure 4.6. The element values for the model are defined as ZMS = line impedance of the bond pad section, LMS = the length of the bond pad section, RW = dc resistance of the wire itself, CW = distributed capacitance of the wire, and LW = distributed inductance of the wire.
The elements values for each portion of the model can be determined by starting with the inductance and capacitance of the wire, LW and CW. They are found by multiplying the distributed inductance by the length of the wire and the distributed capacitance of the wire by the length of the wire, or



Figure 4.5 Comparison of a simple inductor equivalent circuit of the wire bond showing (a) magnitude of return loss and insertion loss in decibels, and (b) phase of S21 and S11 in degrees (HFSS simulation uses solid lines and circuit simulation uses dashed lines). (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)



Figure 4.6 The high fidelity equivalent circuit model of the wire bond. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)


However, from transmission line theory, we know that the impedance and wave velocity on the wire are given by

and

where εreff = the effective dielectric constant of the wire bond treated as a transmission line, vo = speed of light in free space (m/s), Zow = line impedance of the wire when it is treated as a transmission line (ohms), Cdist = distributed capacitance of the wire transmission line (F/m), and Ldist = distributed inductance of the wire transmission line (H/m).
Solving (4.4) and (4.5) for Ldist and Cdist in terms of Zow, vo, and εreff, we obtain


From basic resistive circuit theory, we know that the resistance of a wire is equal to the length of the wire divided by the conductivity and area of the wire, which can be written as

and ZOW is given by

where RW = resistance of the wire (ohm), σ = electrical conductivity of the wire (S/m), A = area of the wire = πr2 (m2), r = radius of the wire = d/2 (m), H = height of the wire over ground (m), and d = diameter of the wire (m).
The other elements in the model are the two microstrip line sections that account for the wire bond pads. Since transmission line models are included in microwave circuit simulators, in practice designers will use the model element in the software for the transmission line section that models the wire bond pad, with impedance and length of ZMS and L MS.
The high-fidelity equivalent circuit model simulated results were compared to FEM simulations and the results are shown in Figure 4.7. Using (4.2), (4.3), (4.8) and the model of the bond pads, the equivalent circuit was created. Notice that agreement between the FEM model and the equivalent circuit model is with a few percent to 50 GHz. The element values for the high-fidelity model are LW = 0.489 nH, CW = 6.4 fF, RW = 0.036 ohm, ZMS = 50.2 ohms, and LMS = 0.090 mm. Figure 4.8 defines some of the additional features of the wire being analyzed.
This analysis method was applied to a simple straight wire bond. However, this same method can be applied to much more complex wire bond configurations such as a ball bond with excellent results.
4.2.3 Flip-Chip Methods
Flip chips have been used in T/R modules. The majority of the uses of flip chips have been for low-power devices such as low-noise amplifiers, phase shifters, and variable gain amplifiers. The use of flip chips with highly integrated SiGe T/R functions is much more common. The use of flip chips for microwave and millimeter-wave frequencies requires careful attention to the three most significant parameters affecting their electrical performance which are:
1.Proper design of the transmission lines in the IC (normally, CPW is use for flip-chip ICs);
2.Proper design of the bump interconnect from the IC to the motherboard;
3.Avoidance of parasitic modes.
Despite the challenges, flip-chip interconnects are particularly useful because of the lower inductance and tight manufacturing tolerances that can be achieved. The series inductance of wire bond interconnects limit the electrical bandwidth over which they can be used. Flip-chip interconnects can be implemented successfully to at least 100 GHz especially when bump matching circuits are used on the motherboard and/or IC.
Another benefit of flip chips is that full-thickness die can be used that eliminates processing steps used in face-up ICs and provides for a more robust chip for high-speed assembly. Figure 4.9 is a side view illustration of a flip-chip integrated circuit mounted to a motherboard. Note that the flip-chip interconnect provides the dual purpose of electrical interconnect and mechanical attachment of the integrated circuit to the motherboard.


Figure 4.7 Comparison of FEM analysis and the equivalent circuit model for a gold wire (σ = 4.1 × 107 mho/m) with H = 0.163 mm, h = 0.127 mm, εr = 9.8, d = 0.0254 mm, and a wire length of 0.75 mm. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)



Figure 4.8 Definition of some of the dimensions used in the modeling. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)



Figure 4.9 Illustration of the flip-chip interconnect showing the spacing between the flip chip and the motherboard as hfc. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)

Types of Flip-Chip Interconnects
There are many different types of flip-chip interconnects. Figure 4.10 illustrates a few of them. Solder bump flip-chip interconnect is shown in Figure 4.10(a). There are many types of solder bump interconnects each with its own benefits. The majority of flip chips are fabricated using some form of solder bump.
The hard bump flip-chip interconnect is illustrated in Figure 4.10(b). In this configuration, a metal bump normally of silver or gold is grown on the IC interconnect pads. The connection to the motherboard is achieved using solder. The metallurgy of the hard bump solder attach is an important design consideration for long-term reliability.
Stud bumps are illustrated in Figure 4.10(c) just prior to thermosonic attachment. The stud bump can be understood as half of a ball and stitch wire bond except that only the first bond is connected. In this approach, the stud bump is created and then the wire is broken instead of making a second connection.


Figure 4.10 Illustration of three of the most common flip chip interconnects: (a) solder bump, (b) hard bump that is solder-attached, and (c) stud bump. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)

Electrical Modeling of Flip-Chip Interconnects
Early in the development of flip chips using GaAs MMIC processing it was unclear which transmission line was optimum for use on the IC. Coplanar waveguide was chosen for most applications due to the fact that it offers easy access to ground on the same surface as the active devices in the IC, allows high-performance electrical transitions, and allows for full-thickness wafers to be used, which results in reliable assembly. Several investigators have worked to develop equivalent circuits of the flip-chip interconnect [3-5] and to determine design rules for implementation [6].
The main parameters affecting flip chip interconnect electrical performance are shown in Figure 4.11 and are the bump pad on the IC, LPIC, the bump pad on the motherboard, LPMB, the diameter of the bump, DBUMP, and the thickness of the bump, hBUMP. It is important to note that the thickness of the bump is assumed to be the same as the gap between the substrate and IC including metal thickness and any attachment material such as solder, z-axis film, or epoxy. In most applications, LPMB and LPIC will not be the same since the precision of the processing on the IC is much higher than for the motherboard there the LPIC is smaller than LPMB. Parameters such as the thickness of the IC die, hIC, and thickness of the motherboard, hMB, have minimal effect on the transition performance of the flip-chip interconnect (see, for instance, [6]). The exception to this is that at millimeter-wave frequencies the thickness of the IC, hIC, has a second-order effect on a parasitic mode that can exist within the dielectric material of the MMIC. In addition, the thickness of the motherboard as a minor effect for very thin motherboards since the ground plane below the motherboard (and any circuits or signal routing) can couple to the signal lines on the IC. The extension of the IC beyond the IC bump pad, LEXT, has a minor effect of adding capacitance to the transmission line on the motherboard.


Figure 4.11 Illustration of the flip-chip transition showing the important dimensions. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)

The effect of the bump pad on the motherboard and on the IC creates a shunt capacitive discontinuity. This is a major contributor to the overall electrical bandwidth of the transition. Heinrich, Jentzsch, and Baumann [4] found that the transition can be accurately modeled using a simple shunt capacitance model. In their approach, they compared simulations using the finite-difference time-domain method to a simple lumped capacitor model and demonstrate that a simple model using the closed form capacitor equation provides sufficient accuracy.
The proximity of the substrate to the flip chip will affect the transmission lines on the IC [7, 8]. The distance between the mounting substrate and the IC is determined by the height of the bump, hBUMP. If the height of the bump is allowed to vary and all other parameters remain the same, the line impedance of the IC coplanar waveguide line will be reduced as the bump height is reduced.
A commercially available 3-D electromagnetic simulator can be used to simulate the effect of the mounting substrate on the performance of the flip-chip coplanar waveguide transmission lines. Figure 4.12 shows the cross-section of a CPW transmission line that was analyzed. Note that the lower CPW lines on the motherboard are shown only to clarify the definition of hBUMP, but were not part of the analysis. The only conductors in the analysis are the CPW lines on the IC.


Figure 4.12 Two configurations of a CPW IC mounted to a motherboard were analyzed using a commercially available 3-D electromagnetic simulator (a) with air below the motherboards and (b) with ground below the motherboard. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)

The results of an analysis conducted at 20 GHz are shown in Figure 4.13. The values of the variable used in the analysis are line width of CPW line = 0.08 mm, gap of CPW line is 0.065 mm, thickness of IC conductors is 0.005 mm, and thickness of motherboard lines is 0.0125 mm, thickness of the IC substrate is 0.5 mm with a dielectric constant of 12.9, and thickness of the motherboard is 0.254 mm with a dielectric constant of 6.15 (RO3006) for configurations 1 and 2 and 8.8 (aluminum nitride) for configuration 3. Note that the effect of the proximity of the motherboard is a reduction in line impedance and increase in the effective dielectric constant. Above about 0.1 mm of bump height, the effect of the motherboard is negligible.
A set of HFSS simulations was conducted to determine the effect on return loss for various bump heights using the same configuration as for Figure 4.11. The results of the analysis are shown in Figure 4.14. Note that as the bump height, hBUMP, is decreased, the return loss is degraded.
This simulation study shows that the transmission lines in the motherboard need to be designed to minimize the effect of the motherboard and that the bump design affects the electrical bandwidth of the flip-chip interconnect.
Avoid Parasitic Modes from Flip-Chip Interconnects
Another important consideration when using flip chips in T/R modules is the avoidance of a few undesired signal propagation modes that can exist at the transition point into the IC.
There are several parasitic modes that can be created in an MMIC flip-chip interconnect. One mode is due to the existence of the undesired parallel-plate mode in the CPW transmission line. In most practical realizations of packaging using flip chips, ground is present under the coplanar waveguide lines. This ground plane is important since it provides isolation to other circuits, bias, and control line routing.


Figure 4.13 Proximity effect of a coplanar waveguide IC and the attachment substrate (a) for line impedance and (b) effective dielectric constant [solid line is the case of no ground below the mother board as in Figure 4.12(a), dotted line is for the case with a ground plane below the motherboard as shown in Figure 4.12(b) with the motherboard dielectric constant of 6.15, and dashed line is for the case with a ground plane below the motherboard as shown in Figure 4.12(b) with the motherboard dielectric constant of 8.8]. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)



Figure 4.14 The configuration shown in Figure 4.11 was subjected to HFSS analysis for several different bump heights, hBUMP, of 0.025 mm, 0.05 mm, 0.075 mm, and 0.1 mm (solid line is 0.025 mm, the dashed line is 0.05 mm, the dotted line is 0.075 mm, and the dotted and dashed line is 0.1 mm). (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)

However, as Yaozhong Liu, K. Cha, and T. Itoh determined [9], conductor-backed coplanar waveguide has a zero cutoff mode that can exist, which will lead to undesired resonance if not properly grounded. This mode can exist on the CPW line in the motherboard and also on the CPW line on the IC. The transition from the motherboard to the IC excites this undesired mode which creates a forward (PPL2) and reverse (PPL1) propagating parallel plate mode [4] as can be seen in Figure 4.15. PPL1 is the parallel plate mode that propagates back toward the motherboard CPW line and its effect can be minimized by using vias connecting the topside ground plane to the bottom side ground plane on the CPW in the motherboard. However, PPL2, which is the parallel plate mode that exists between the CPW line in the IC and the ground plane in the motherboard, is difficult to suppress. There is strong coupling between the desired CPW mode and the PPL2 mode and can be as high as 30 dB. This can be a serious concern for high-gain ICs and other adjacent circuitry, which requires careful design of the MMIC chip and the adjacent circuitry.


Figure 4.15 The transition between the CPW line on the motherboard and IC generates the parasitic parallel plate mode that propagates forward and reverse from the transition. (From: [4] © 1998 IEEE. Reprinted, with permission.)

A parasitic resonance can occur at the transition from the motherboard to the MMIC if the CPW ground pads vias are not properly placed. In most practical implementations, the motherboard CPW lines will use conductor backed coplanar waveguide with grounding vias connecting the topside ground to the bottom side ground. The location of the ground via closest to the bump interconnect must be placed close enough to avoid a possible quarter-wave resonance that can occur in the PPL1 mode. The line-length LMV as shown in Figure 4.16 appears as a quarter-wave stub that is open on one end and short-circuited on the other with a resonant frequency of

where fMV = frequency of resonance due to the stub created at the flip-chip bump transition, vo = free space velocity, εrMB = dielectric constant of the motherboard, and L MV = the distance between the first motherboard via and the end of bump pad.


Figure 4.16 A quarter wave resonance can occur at the flip chip transition if grounding vias are not properly located near the bump pads on the ground path. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)

4.3 Package/Module-Level Interconnect
The second level of interconnect used in T/R modules is at the package or module level. For a highly integrated module such as the one shown in Figure 4.1, the second-level interconnect exists at the module input and output. For T/R modules constructed from surface mount (SMT) packages, the second-level interconnect exist at the transition from the SMT package to the motherboard.
Each type of transition has its challenges. We will briefly discuss second-level interconnects at the module level. It is similar to the transition interconnected used inside the module from microstrip to buried stripline. Since we will discuss that in detail in Section 4.6, we will only briefly discuss it in this section. We will discuss in some detail the SMT package transition and a few of the methods that have been developed to create electrical models of it.
4.3.1 Module Interconnects
The heart of the module-level interconnect is a transition from inside the module to outside the module (refer to Figure 4.1). It is formed by a vertical transition from the transmission line inside the module, which is coplanar waveguide with ground (CPWG) to a buried stripline. The buried stripline travels under the braze wall. The stripline connects to another vertical transition back up to the top of the substrate in back into CPWG transmission line.
4.3.2 SMT Package Interconnects
Signal integrity for T/R modules using SMT components is important because of the widespread use of SMT components from dc to about 40 GHz. Full T/R modules can be created using all SMT devices. In these cases, second-level interconnects between the package and the motherboard must be properly optimized for signal integrity.
A small outline package (SOP) is shown in Figure 4.17. Variants of it are the thin small outline package (TSOP) and the thin shrunk small outline package (TSSOP). These packages are surface mounted to a motherboard and replaced earlier dual in-line packages (DIP) packages, which used through holes in the motherboard for mounting. The SOP and its variants can be made with a thermal pad exposed on the bottom of the package to provide a heat path for power dissipated in the IC. The leads and die paddle are copper that has been plated with a tin finish.
A QFN package is shown in Figure 4.18. It is also a surface mount package and is used extensively for microwave and millimeter-wave applications. It normally has an exposed thermal pad on the bottom. The reason this package is so popular for RF applications is that it has a short signal path from the motherboard to the wire bond. This short path results in less severe parasitic effects and provides wider electrical bandwidth performance.


Figure 4.17 Illustration of a small outline package (SOP) showing the package and the motherboard to which it is mounted. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)



Figure 4.18 Illustration of a quad flat no-lead (QFN) package. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)

For the most part, the SOP and plastic QFN encapsulation material is in intimate contact with the surface of the IC. For many applications this is not an issue since the IC is designed to accommodate the effects of the encapsulate material or the effects are minor enough that they can be tolerated. However, for some applications, the IC performance is degraded enough by the encapsulate material that an alternative method must be used.
The task of electrical modeling of surface mount packages at microwave and millimeter-wave frequencies has the challenge of accounting for effects in the motherboard and the package transition. Most diligent designers will extend the analysis to include the wire bond so that they can optimize all the effects from the transmission line on the motherboard all the way up to the bond pads on the IC. In practice, most designers use EM simulators to analyze and optimize the packaging interconnect or measured data on the package. Usually, the simulation results are imported into circuit simulators. Figure 4.19 shows an image of a 3-D model used for the analysis of a QFN package.
4.4 Transmission Line Interconnects
The transmission lines between circuit elements in the T/R module must be properly designed to maintain signal integrity. This means several things.
First, the impedance of the transmission lines must be correct. Normally, the routing of the signals within the module is achieved using 50-ohm transmission lines. This requires that the dimensions of the transmission line conductor, dielectric thickness, and dielectric constant are chosen to achieve the required line impedance. Most often, the dielectric material is chosen based on considerations other than the line impedance so that the dielectric constant is fixed. The module electrical design engineer normally has control of the thickness of the dielectric layers containing the transmission lines and the features of the transmission line conductor(s). Therefore, the proper line impedance can normally be achieved with minimal effort.


Figure 4.19 In practice, most designers will analyze the SMT packages using a 3-D EM simulator and this illustration shows a QFN model ready for analysis. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)



Figure 4.20 Illustration of the three most common transmission lines used in T/R modules: (a) stripline, (b) microstrip, and (c) conductor-backed coplanar waveguide (CBCPW). (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)

Second, the transmission line type must be chosen. It is very common to use microstrip line to connect between ICs or IC packages in a T/R module. However, most modules contain multiple transmission line types. The most common transmission line types used in T/R modules are microstrip, stripline, and conductor-backed coplanar waveguide (CBCPW). Figure 4.20 illustrates these three transmission line types. The choice of the transmission line type is normally a fairly easy choice. Stripline is used when buried lines are needed. Microstrip is used for surface transmission lines. CBCPW is used for transmission lines that require topside ground contact or when there are concerns about coupling.
Third, the transmission line interconnect must minimize discontinuities. A discontinuity in a transmission line is any change in its cross-sectional dimensions such as line width change or a change direction of propagation such as a bend or curve in the transmission line. There is a special type of transition, which is often referred to as the vertical transition. It uses vias or other metal structures to create a transition that is perpendicular to the normal surface of the substrate. This type of transition is discussed in Section 4.6. Here we are concerned with transitions that occur in the plane of the transmission line. Figure 4.21 illustrates the concern with proper transmission line interconnect optimization and shows the progressive improvement in return loss with improvements in the bend type. The best performance is achieved with a bend that includes some matching circuit. This analysis demonstrates the care that must be taken in routing transmission lines within the T/R module to achieve the highest level of electrical performance.

Figure 4.21 A simple transmission line bend demonstrates the need for proper design of transmission line interconnects: (a) EM simulation results showing the return loss as a function of four different types of microstrip bends, and (b) the four types of microstrip bend.
If these three concerns are properly addressed in the design of transmission lines, then the signal integrity can be maintained.
4.5 Coupling Between Interconnects
Electrical interconnects can experience significant coupling. For electric field coupling, the coupling capacitance is roughly proportional to frequency. The simple parallel plate capacitance equation can provide some useful insight into the physics of coupling. We know that for parallel plates separated by a dielectric, the capacitance is given by

where C = capacitance, F, ε0 = permittivity of free space (F/m), εr = relative permittivity of the dielectric, and D = separation between the plates
From (4.11) we know that the capacitance increases as the separation between the plates, D, decreases. We also know that the capacitance increases as the relative dielectric constant increases. Finally, we know that the capacitance increases as the area of the plates increases. The trends that are true for simple parallel plate capacitors are also true, in general, for coupling between structures in T/R modules. As the separation between structures (such as transmission lines) decreases, the coupling increases. The coupling between structures increases as the dielectric constant increases. Finally, the coupling increases for larger structures. These simple concepts can function as a guide for the detailed design of T/R modules to reduce undesired coupling.
4.6 Vertical Transition Interconnects
Vertical transition interconnects are an important part of T/R module design. The reason is the complexity and level compaction typical in them. There are at least two levels of complexity that drive the need for vertical transition interconnects. The first is buried transmission lines. Buried transmission lines are used to transition within a ceramic substrate under a hermetic metal wall or to carry the radar signal under other electronics while avoiding undesired coupling. The most critical part of the design of that part of the module is the vertical transition between the microstrip line and the stripline.


Figure 4.22 (a) The module interconnect shown in the section of the module with the I/O, (b) a 3-D model for EM analysis (© 2014 IEEE. Reprinted, with permission, from [1]), (c) a simplified view of the 3-D model clearly showing the CPWG and stripline transmission lines, and (d) the critical features of the opening, D, in the ground plan and via diameter. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)

This configuration is shown in Figure 4.22(a) which is a close up of the module I/O from Figure 4.1. A 3-D model as shown in Figure 4.22(b) was created for FEM electromagnetic modeling. A simplified view of the model is shown in Figure 4.22(c).
The important parameters for proper operation of this transition are the diameter of the via used to connect between the center strip of the CPWG to the buried stripline and the opening in the ground plane shown as feature D in Figure 4.22(d). The opening D must be optimized since too narrow an opening will create excessive capacitance to ground. Too much of an opening of feature D will remove ground plane under the CPWG and will reduce the capacitance between the ground and the vertical via too much. Some capacitance from the ground plane to the vertical via helps to tune out some of the via inductance.
The second type of vertical transition common to T/R modules is the transition from one substrate to another that is part of a stack of modules. In this instance, the signals transitions from one substrate vertically to another substrate. An example of this can be found in [10] where the authors used a stack of ceramic substrates and compressible connectors to form vertical interconnects between the substrates. This approach created an X-band T/R module that was used to construct a tile array. The module is illustrated in Figure 4.23(a). The figure shows ceramic substrates with integrated circuits stacked using ring frames. Within the ring frames are compressible connectors shown in Figure 4.23(b). The vertical transition circuit includes the metal pattern configuration in the ceramic substrates as well as the compressible connectors.


Figure 4.23 Illustration of a 3-D stack of substrates that (a) form a full T/R module and (b) use compressible interconnects. (© 1997 IEEE. Reprinted, with permission, from [10].)

Another example can be found in [11] where the authors used vertical transitions with solder ball interconnects. The T/R module actually included the ICs and the antenna elements and operated at X-band.
4.7 Module Resonances
Another challenge to signal integrity in T/R modules is undesired package resonances. The cause of these resonances is a volume that is enclosed by electric conductors to create a cavity. All metal cavities filled with a vacuum will display a resonance at a frequency given by

where fr = frequency of the resonance (Hz) and a = width of the cavity (m).
The cavity resonance predicted by (4.12) is the lowest frequency of resonance and can be a major concern for those developing T/R modules.
The cross section of a T/R module housing is illustrated in Figure 4.24(a). It shows the metal box, dielectric substrate and internal components. As can be seen in Figure 4.24(b), the electric field distribution has its peak in the middle and decays to zero and the metallic walls of the metal box. The electric field is such that it will set up a package resonance that will cause RF "suck outs" to occur.


Figure 4.24 Cross-section of a T/R module showing (a) the integrated circuits and (b) the approximate electric field pattern due to the package resonance. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [2].)

The lowest frequency at which a T/R module will resonant is the most important to know and to manage. This is due to the simple fact that if the lowest resonant mode is avoided or managed properly, the other higher modes in most cases can be ignored. Thankfully, the lowest resonant mode can be calculated or approximated for most T/R modules enclosed by metal walls. This can be useful to determine the proper dimensions of the housing to avoid the lowest resonance.
A first order approximation of the resonant frequency can be achieved by ignoring the dielectric substrate and treating the cavity as a waveguide. In this case it is simple to calculate the resonant frequency using (4.12). Such an approximation will give a resonant frequency prediction which is actually higher than will be measured in the module. However, since calculation is so easily done by hand, it offers a quick assessment of resonances.
A more precise answer is usually needed which requires the dielectric substrate to be taken into account. This is achieved by recognizing the package resonance is due to the propagation of the longitudinal section magnetic (LSM) mode. In particular, it is the LSM11 mode.
A variational method can be applied to solve for the propagation constant of a dielectric-filled waveguide that will give us the desired resonant frequency of the cavity [12]. The equation for the propagation constant is:

where

The elements of the P matrix are:



The elements of the T matrix are:



where a = cavity width (m), b = cavity thickness (m), t = substrate thickness (m), d = air region thickness (m), εr = dielectric constant of the substrate, and = frequency (Hz).
Setting (4.13) equal to zero and using a numerical root solving method such as the bisection technique will yield the frequency of resonance for the LSM11 mode. The independent variable in the solution algorithm is frequency which is varied until (4.13) equals zero. This technique was implemented in a computer program and simulated for a = 12.7 mm, b = 6.35 mm, t = 0.635 mm, and dielectric constant of 9.8. The predicted resonant frequency is 11.21 GHz.

Table 4.1
Comparison of the Dielectric Loaded Cavity Resonant Frequency Calculation Using (4.12) and (4.13) for a = 12.7 mm, b = 6.35 mm, and εr = 9.8


Using the approximation from (4.12), we obtain a resonant frequency of 11.81 GHz, which is an error of about 5.3% compared to the solution from (4.13). As the substrate thickness is increased, the error from using (4.12) increases. Table 4.1 shows the effect of substrate thickness on the cavity resonance and how the error from using (4.12) increases as substrate thickness increases. In addition to the substrate thickness, as the dielectric constant of the substrate is increased, the error in using (4.12) also increases.
In practice, most modules cannot be made small enough to avoid the lowest cutoff resonance. This is especially true above 20 GHz. In these cases, a material called absorber is used. It lowers the Q of the package resonance such that the resonance can normally be ignored.
4.8 Conclusions
The signal integrity of T/R modules can be affected by many different causes. In this chapter, we were able to consider the major contributors. We showed how chip-level interconnects are normally formed by wire bonds or ribbon bonds. We also compared the difference between ball bonds and wedge bonds. A low-fidelity model and a high-fidelity model were developed for wire bonds that can be extended to very complex wire bonds. We also examined package and module-level interconnects. Package-level interconnects must take into account the motherboard and its contributions.
Transmission line interconnect impact on signal integrity was shown to be an important contributor to overall module performance. Even the smallest details such as a bend in a transmission line must be carefully designed to maintain high-quality signals. A general set of guidelines was discussed for controlling the coupling in T/R modules.
Finally, the effects of vertical transitions and module resonances were examined so that it was possible to quickly calculate the resonance of a module to determine if absorber will be required.
Problems
4.1What is the approximate inductance of a 25.4 μm wire that is 0.25 mm above ground?
4.2What are the inductance, capacitance, and resistance for a 25.4-μm gold wire that is 0.3 mm long and 0.125 mm above ground?
4.3At 10 GHz, what is the stub resonance created at a flip chip interconnect if the open stub line is 3.2 mm long on a motherboard with a dielectric constant of 6.0?
4.4What are the three most important factors affecting flip-chip performance?
4.5What is the approximate cavity resonance for a metal enclosed housing that is 13 mm wide?
References
[1]Oppermann, M., F. Thurow, and B. Bunz, "GaN/SiC MMICs and Packaging for Use in Future Transmit/Receive Modules," Electronics System-Integration Technology Conference (ESTC), Helsinki, Finland, September 16-18, 2014.
[2]Sturdivant, R., Microwave and Millimeter-Wave Electronic Packaging, Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2014.
[3]Jackson, R. W., and R. Ito, "Modeling Millimeter-Wave IC Behavior for Flipped-Chip Mounting Schemes," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 45, No. 10, 1997, pp. 1919-1925.
[4]Heinrich, W., A. Jentzsch, and G. Baumann, "Millimeter-Wave Characteristics of Flip-Chip Interconnects for Multichip Modules," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 46, No. 12, 1998, pp. 2264-2268.
[5]Heinrich, W., "Flip-Chip for Millimeter-Wave and Broadband Packaging," IEEE International Workshop on Radio-Frequency Integration Technology, Singapore, November 30-December 2, 2005, pp. 124-126.
[6]Stainculescu, D., J. Laskar, and E. M. Tentzeris, "Design Rule Development for Microwave Flip-Chip Applications," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 48, No. 9, 2000, pp. 1476-1481.
[7]Sturdivant, R., "Reducing the Effects of the Mounting Substrate on the Performance of GaAs MMIC Flip Chips," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, Orlando, FL, May 16-20, 1995, pp. 1591-1595.
[8]Nagy, O., et al., "An Investigation of the Proximity Effect of Millimeter-Wave MMICs in Flip-Chip Configuration," European Microwave Conference, London, England, September 24-26, 2001, pp. 1-4.
[9]Liu, Y., K. Cha, and T. Itoh, "Non-Leaky Coplanar (NLC) Waveguides with Conductor Backing," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 43, No. 4, 1995, pp. 1067-1072.
[10]Sturdivant, R., et al., "Design and Performance of a High Density 3D Microwave Module," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, Denver, CO, June 8-13, 1997, pp. 510-504.
[11]Khandelwal, N., and R. W. Jackson, "An X-Band System-In-Package Active Antenna Module," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, Long Beach, CA, June 12- 17, 2005, pp. 1019-1022.
[12]Collin, R. E., Field Theory of Guided Waves, 2nd ed., Piscataway, NJ: IEEE Press, 1991, pp. 428-429.







5
Materials for T/R Modules
5.1 Introduction to Materials
One of the skills and capabilities that are required for successful T/R module development is expertise in the materials used for their fabrication. The choice of materials and their implementation have a profound affect on performance, cost, size, and functionality. For instance, the choice of material for the integrated circuit will impact, to a large extent, performance and reliability. This chapter focuses on understanding the materials typically used in T/R modules.
The materials choice is most often made based upon the critical parameters that are of concern for a particular set of requirements. A common material choice is the substrate material used in the module. Often this choice is based upon the components that are solder or epoxy attached to it. Some important parameters are thermal expansion of the material as temperature varies, dielectric constant (for dielectric materials), loss tangent (for dielectric material), and thermal conductivity. Many other parameters are also important and we investigate them in this chapter.
The decision on which materials to use occurs early in the development of the T/R module. Figure 5.1 illustrates a simplified material selection process which is a subset of the overall array development. The process of choosing the right material starts with an understanding of the requirements of the module. The product requirements document must state requirements which are affected by the choice of materials such as maximum junction temperature, hermeticity, maximum operating frequency or maximum data rate, size, weight, first-level and second-level interconnects, and insertion loss of interconnects. Once these requirements are known, a product concept can be developed. Usually, the product concept is based upon the experience of the engineer who must balance many different variables and choose an optimum solution.

Figure 5.1 The top-level view of the material selection process for RF electronic packaging. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)
Once the product concept has been developed, the materials used in the product are determined. Often the list of materials is called the material set since it is the set of materials in the product. Accurate parameters must be determined for each material. For many materials, the manufacturer's data sheet will have some electrical and mechanical parameters. However, for some materials this information may not exist, or if it is available, it will be measured under conditions that are not consistent with the operating range of the product.
An example is dielectric constant. It is common for some materials to have dielectric constant specified at a very low frequency such as 1 MHz. This is useful for some applications but for most T/R modules, this frequency is much too low. A module operating at a frequency of 22 to 28 GHz will need data that is valid for that range. In practice, at microwave and millimeter-wave frequencies, materials data is not readily available.
As a guiding principle, engineers should only use an item or material if critical material parameters are not known. Fortunately, several methods have been developed to measure material dielectric constant and loss tangent at microwave and millimeter-wave frequencies. Those methods will be discussed in this chapter.
Analysis and measurements of the product are used to confirm compliance of the material set against requirements. The final product is subjected to detailed design verification and reliability testing. The material selection process continues until the T/R module meets specification.
5.2 Electrical Parameters and Their Measurement
Even though design of a T/R module requires careful attention many different materials parameters, there are a few electrical parameters that are of most concern:
•Dielectric constant;
•Loss tangent;
•Semiconductor dielectric properties;
•Electrical conductivity of circuit traces and metallic features.
It turns out that for some insulators, semiconductors, and metals the distinguishing performance parameters are due to the electron energy bandgap between the valence and conduction bands [2]. Figure 5.2 illustrates the electron energy bandgap. For instance, dielectric materials have a bandgap between the valence and conduction band is usually larger than 5 eV. This can be distinguished from semiconductors where the electron gap is about 1 eV. Electrical conductors have no energy gap between the valence and conduction bands and it contains free electrons. Therefore, knowing the bandgap between valence and conduction bands for materials is a way to have insight into its properties.
5.2.1 Dielectric Constant
Most dielectric materials are poor electrical conductors and so they are good electrical insulators. An important material parameter for insulators is dielectric constant. To understand dielectric constant, first consider an insulator that is placed in an electric field. Polarization occurs within the material at the microscopic level. The average equilibrium positions of bound positive and negative charge experience a displacement due to the electric field. This causes an electric dipole moment to exist in the material that affects the electric field. This effect is illustrated in Figure 5.3.


Figure 5.2 Energy bands for different types of materials: (a) insulator, (b) semiconductor, and (c) conductor. (After: [2].)

There are three possible physical mechanisms that will generate a polarization in a dielectric material, and an electric dipole moment.
1.Atomic polarization occurs when the center of the electron cloud of an atom is displaced relative to the center of the nucleus in the presence of an electric field. This is the mechanism for most dielectrics used in microwave and millimeter-wave packaging.
2.Ionic polarization occurs when molecules with ionic bonds have a displacement of the positive ions relative to negative ions in the presence of an electric field. Common table salt, NaCl, molecules are an example.
3.Orientation polarization occurs with molecules that have a permanent dipole moment but naturally randomly orientated, which orient themselves in the presence of an electric field. An example of this is water molecules, which have approximately a 104° angle between the two positively charged hydrogen atoms relative to the negatively charged oxygen atom.
Notice Figure 5.4, which shows a dielectric material in the presence of an electric field. The electric field creates dipole moments. For atomic polarization, the electron cloud is displaced and this creates the dipole. If the density of dielectric dipole moments is large, then the electric susceptibility will be large. Susceptibility is the measure of a material's ability to react to the electric field by creating dipole moments.


Figure 5.3 (a) A dielectric material with zero voltage on the plates will not generate an electric field in the material. (b) However, when an electric field is generated, the dielectric will exhibit dielectric dipoles. A dipole is a pair of charges of equal and opposite charge that are separated by a very small distance. If the electric field is removed, the dipole moments relax to the prior, random orientation. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)


Figure 5.4 In the presence of an electric field, (a) the dipoles line up, and (b) a displacement vector, d, exits between the +Q and -Q charges. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)
Dielectric constant or relative permittivity (in practice, the two terms are used interchangeably) is an important parameter for dielectrics. It is a macroscopic measure of a material's response, at the atomic level, to an electric field. Dielectric constant is material permittivity normalized to the permittivity of free space:

5.2.2 Loss Tangent
Dielectric loss is due to dissipation of the signal in the dielectric material which converts a portion of the RF signal into heat. For a TEM transmission line, the loss due to dielectric loss is easily calculated.

where tanδ = dielectric loss tangent.
The dielectric loss tangent is the parameter which must be considered for each material used to support the RF signal. Many data sheets specify the loss tangent of a material or it can be measured.
Some datasheets for materials do not supply the loss tangent, but instead supply the dissipation factor (DF). The difference between the dissipation faction and loss tangent is that the dissipation factor ignores the fact that the permittivity is complex at high frequencies due to atomic resonances within the dielectric material.
If the loss tangent of the material is not supplied but DF is, then it is very common to use DF directly. The dividing line between a dielectric and a conductor is the amount of loss the material has in the presence of an electromagnetic field. Good dielectrics have very low conductivity. Good conductors have high conductivity.
5.2.3 Measurement of Dielectric Constant and Loss Tangent
Fortunately, several methods exist to measure dielectric constant and loss tangent [3-10]. It is also helpful that some industry standards have been developed such as the IPC TM-650 2.5.5.5C. It is a stripline transmission line method to measure permittivity and loss tangent at X-band frequencies. It is primarily intended as an aide for manufacturers of electronic substrates for assuring quality control. ASTM D3380-10 is a standard for the measurement of dielectric constant and loss tangent of polymer-based microwave circuit materials.
In general terms, dielectric materials measurement methods are either broadband or narrowband. Examples of broadband methods are free space and transmission line techniques. Examples of resonant methods are ring resonator and waveguide cavity resonator.
Ring Resonator Method
The Ring Resonator Method [11] uses a transmission line arranged as a ring with input and output capacitive coupling. The resonant frequency of the ring gives dielectric constant and the Q of the resonance yields the loss tangent. Figure 5.5(a) shows a sketch of a ring resonator. Note that there are CPW to microstrip probe transitions at Port 1 and Port 2. These transitions allow for ground-signal-ground (GSG) probes to be used at a probe station for ease and accuracy in test. It is important to also note that the input and output transmission lines do not connect directly to the ring resonator but instead there is a physical gap in the metal pattern. This allows for coupling to the resonator to minimize the loading that occurs from the 50-ohm input and output circuits.


Figure 5.5 Ring resonator: (a) the ring metal pattern has a line width of W, an inner radius of Ra, and test signals injected at Port 1 and Port 2, and (b) the equivalent circuit models the gap as capacitors C1 and C2 and two transmission lines of length, L. (After: [6].)

The test sample can be modeled electrically as shown in Figure 5.5(b). The input gap is represented by a pair of capacitors. Capacitor C1 is due to the fringing capacitance off the end of the input and output transmission lines. The capacitor C2 models the capacitance from the input and output lines to the ring resonator. Yu and Chang showed that the ring resonator can be modeled using two transmission lines [12]. Alternatively, it can be modeled using an electromagnetic simulator. For the two-transmission line method, it is realized that, for larger diameter resonators, the curvature can be ignored. Thus, the resonator is analyzed as two transmission lines that are connected at the coupling point to the input and output lines. Since Port 1 and Port 2 are in-line with each other, the length of each line modeling the ring is given by L = πRm, where Rm is the mean radius of the line. Since the two transmission lines are symmetrically terminated, the resonance will occur when the length of the line is at multiples of a half wavelength, or

where λ = the wavelength of the microstrip line mode, Rm = mean radius of the line = Ra + W/2, and n = the resonance number of the nth resonance.
Recognizing that

where εreff = effective dielectric constant of the transmission line and c = 3 × 108 m/s = speed of light in free space.
It is possible to combine (5.3) with (5.4) and solve for the resonant frequency of the ring resonator resulting in

Since microstrip is dispersive the effective dielectric constant will not be the same at each resonant frequency. Therefore, the effective dielectric constant is shown as being a function of frequency. Once the resonator substrate is measured and the frequency of the resonances is determined, it is possible to solve for the effective dielectric constant by rearranging (5.5) as

which tells us that the frequency-dependent effective dielectric constant is a function of the resonance number, dimensions of the ring, and the resonance frequency. Since the goal is to determine the dielectric constant of the substrate, it is necessary to relate the effective dielectric constant to the dielectric constant of the substrate. Kirschning and Jensen [13] developed an analytic expression for the effective dielectric constant as a function of microstrip line physical dimensions and dielectric constant

where

where u = W/h, W = microstrip line width, h = dielectric substrate thickness, and εreff (f = 0) = effective dielectric constant at zero frequency.
In (5.14) P(f  ) is the filling factor which accounts for the fact that the microstrip line has the dielectric effects of the substrate material and the air region above it. The air region results in the microstrip dispersion effects which cause the effective dielectric constant to vary as a function of frequency. The effective dielectric constant at zero frequency can be determined using the equation from Schneider [14]. which is based upon conformal mapping and a curve fit,

As can be seen from Figure 5.6(a), the measured ring resonator shows the expected periodic resonances. The figure shows excellent agreement between measured and model results. The ring resonator was fabricated using HTCC ceramic. The solid line is the simulation and the dashed line is the measured data. The actual test resonator circuit in the probe station is shown in Figure 5.6(b). As the resonant frequency increases, the ring resonator method becomes less attractive since it is difficult to fabricate small ring resonators and the losses due to radiation and conductor loss become more difficult to estimate. Therefore, other techniques are used that rely on cavity resonance methods.
Cavity Resonance Method
Highly accurate characterization of dielectric constant and loss tangent can be achieved using resonant cavity methods. An example is the split waveguides technique. It uses cutoff and non-cutoff modes in a metallic waveguide [15-18]. Figure 5.7 shows an image of circular waveguide cavity resonator system. In this arrangement, a sample of dielectric material is placed between the two circular resonator halves. The sample is normally a thin square sheet that is 0.5 to 1 mm thick and 25 to 50 mm on each side. Also, this method is nondestructive so that the substrate can be used.


Figure 5.6 Ring resonator showing (a) the measured data and model prediction and (b) an image of the circuit in the probe station. (Image courtesy of Ametek Electronic Components and Packaging, New Bedford, Massachusetts.)

The input/output signal to the resonators uses probes. Each resonator has a single probe so that the resonant transmission and reflection characteristics can be measured.
One of the keys to making this method work is to lightly couple into the cavities. This maintains high loaded Q and allows for distinguishing the desired resonant mode from the other unwanted modes. It was found through experimentation that coupling into the resonator can achieved using a coaxial line with a center conductor formed into a loop.
Transmission Line Measurements
It is very useful in the design of electronic packaging to know the insertion loss of a transmission line that is being used. This is due to the fact that loss budgets and gain/loss distributions are normally an important part of the design procedure. Therefore, designers need to know the insertion loss of the transmission lines per unit length. Figure 5.8 is an image of conductor backed coplanar waveguide transmission lines used to measure the transmission line insertion loss per unit length.


Figure 5.7 A split resonator was fabricated using machined brass and silver plate to measure the dielectric constant and loss tangent of dielectric materials. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)

5.2.4 Metal Electrical Conductivity
Metallic materials have free electrons that give rise to an electric current in the presence of an electric field. The losses of a zero frequency or direct current (dc) losses are a function of the metal electrical resistivity. For an ideal metal, the dc resistance is just its resistivity multiplied by the length of the metal divided by its cross-sectional area, or

where ρ = resistivity of the conductor in units (ohm ⋅ meter), L = length of the conductor, and A = the cross-sectional are of the conductor.
For many packaging technologies, the resistivity of a circuit is given in ohms per square (often written as ohm/□). The concept of ohm/square is illustrated in Figure 5.9, which is a top-down view of a rectangular conductor of length, L, and width, W. One square is conductor that has equal length and width. Dividing the total length of the metal trace by its width yields the number of squares.




Figure 5.8 Various lengths of microstrip lines were fabricated on 0.381-mm-thick 92% alumina substrates. (Ceramic substrates are courtesy of CMS Circuit Solutions, Inc. of Murrieta, California.)



Figure 5.9 For many applications including electronic packaging, it is common to speak of ohms per square in describing the dc loss of a conductor trace as shown in (a) a top-down view of a trace and (b) the isometric view of a trace of thickness t. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)

The ohms/square of a conductor trace can be thought of as the resistivity normalized to the thickness of the metal conductor. This means that it is the responsibility of the packaging manufacturer to quote metal losses in terms of ohms per square and to tightly control the resistivity and thickness of their conductors to maintain their specified ohms per square dc loss. Equating (5.9) and (5.11),

Rearranging and recognizing that A = line width × line thickness, it is possible to show that

It is important to remember in this derivation that ohms/square is a parameter that describes the resistance per square of resistor or conductor material. Also, ohms per square can also be thought of as the resistivity normalized by the conductor thickness. It is used in practical circuit design since manufacturers often provide resistances in ohm/square. One of the reasons is that it is much easier to count squares and perform a simple multiplication to determine loss and resistance. For ceramics, the resistance of metal conductors is in the range of 2 to 20 milliohms/square.
5.3 Mechanical Parameters
The main mechanical parameters of concern in T/R module design are thermal conductivity, thermal expansion, Young's modulus, stress, strain, and sheer. Thermal conductivity is a concern for T/R modules operating at any frequency, but is especially a concern for higher frequencies due to the significant thermal density of some high-power amplifiers. Thermal expansion is also a concern since it is very common for T/R modules to be required to withstand temperature variations from −40°C to +150°C in use and as high as +240°C during solder reflow. Young's modulus, stress, strain, and sheer are also important for the reliability and structural integrity of the packaging.
5.3.1 Thermal Conductivity
The thermal conductivity of a material is a measure its ability to transfer heat. The transfer of energy can occur from electrical carriers such as electrons or holes, lattice waves often referred to as phonons, electromagnetic waves such as infrared radiation, and other methods. For most packaging materials, the total thermal conductivity is given by

where TCT = total thermal conductivity, TCe = thermal conductivity due to electron transport, TCp = thermal conductivity due to phonon transport, and TCEM = thermal conductivity due to electromagnetic wave propagation.
For metals, thermal conductivity is due primarily to electronic processes from free electrons, which is to say, TCe > TCp + TCEM. In addition, metals are good thermal and electrical conductors since the mechanism of transport in both cases is free electrons. Thermal conductivity due to electron transport is reduced in materials due to electron-phonon interactions and impurities. For dielectrics, thermal conductivity is due primarily to phonon conduction, which is to say, TCp > TCe + TCEM.
Since electrical conductivity and thermal conductivity in metals are due to free electrons, it is interesting to plot thermal conductivity versus electrical conductivity for various metals as shown in Figure 5.10. Note how the different metal types fall roughly along a straight line. The Wiedemann-Franz law states the ratio of thermal conductivity due to electron processes to electrical conductivity is proportional to temperature and is the same for all metals according to


Figure 5.10 The thermal conductivity plotted as a function of electrical conductivity for several different metals along with the ideal Wiedemann-Franz Law straight line. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)


where TC = thermal conductivity, σ = electrical conductivity, L = Lorenz number = 2.45 × 10−8 (WΩ/K2), and T = temperature.
In the plot, the straight line is just (5.15) solved for thermal conductivity, TC, and plotted as a function of electrical conductivity. It is clear from the figure that the Lorenz number is not exactly the same for all metals, which is why the metals plotted in the figure do not lie in a perfectly straight line. However, for the metals plotted, they do agree with the theory fairly well.
The thermal conductivity of a material is affected in several ways. For instance, at a high temperature, thermal conductivity is reduced in most materials. The fact that thermal conductivity varies as a function of temperature must be taken into account in the T/R module design. In addition, for some materials, such as HTCC and LTCC ceramics, the thermal conductivity varies depending upon the impurities and additives used by the manufacturer. The thermal conductivity of several materials is shown in Table 5.1.

Table 5.1
Thermal Conductivity and Thermal Expansion of Various Materials Used in T/R Modules at Microwave and Millimeter-Wave Frequencies


Thermal Conductivity
Thermal Expansion

Material
(W/mK)
(ppm/°C)

Diamond
1,000 to 2,000
1.1

Silicon (Si)
150
3.8

Silver (Ag)
429
19.8

Copper (Cu)
380
16.5

Gold (Au)
318
14.2

Aluminum (Al)
240
22

Tin (Sn)
67
22

Silicon carbide (SiC)
310
3.8

Indium phosphide (InP)
65
4.3

Gallium arsenide (GaAs)
55
5.9

Alumina (Al2O3)
25
5.4

LTCC
2 to 4
5.8

Aluminum nitride (AlN)
150
3.5



5.4 Ceramic Materials
Ceramic packaging is of particular benefit to high reliability T/R modules due to its excellent material stability. While it is true that high performance laminates have been used up to millimeter-wave frequencies for decades, until recently, the vast majority of T/R modules were fabricated in ceramics. There are several reasons that ceramics are useful:
1.Ceramics are inherent stabile due to their very high Young's modulus.
2.It is easy to wire bond to metalized ceramics allowing microwave hybrids.
3.Low loss ceramics such as alumina and quartz allow for low insertion loss lines.
4.Tight line resolution to 2.5 μm (thin film) allows tight line impedance control
5.Narrow line widths to 12.5 μm (thin film) allow high impedance lines.
6.Brazing metals to ceramic is a standard process permitting hermetic modules.
7.The high thermal conductivity of ceramics allows integration of high-power amplifiers.
8.Blind and buried vias are a standard process in co-fired ceramics allowing high density.
9.Microelectronics on ceramics are highly reliable in extreme temperature environments.
The work-horse processes for ceramics have been thin film, thick film, high-temperature co-fired ceramics (HTCC), and low-temperature co-fired ceramics (LTCC).
5.4.1 Thin-Film Ceramic
Thin-film circuits are realized using sputtering techniques. Sputtering has been used for many years. For instance, Thomas Edison received a patent for a sputtering apparatus in 1902. Edison said that, "The value of my process for coating of phonographic-records resides in the fact that the deposited film is so minutely thin as to be accurately deposited upon all portions of the record, so that an absolute accurate matrix or mold can be secured" [19]. Although his method may be considered crude by today's standards, it did work.
Thankfully, thin-film processing has improved since the days of Edison. The thin-film process is illustrated in Figure 5.11. Sputtering uses high-energy ion particles that are pointed at and that hit the target. The target is that material, such as gold, to be sputtered on the substrate. Atoms on the target are freed by bombardment of ions. This causes some of the atoms to be deposited onto the substrate.


Figure 5.11 Illustration of a chamber for thin-film sputtering. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)

T/R modules that use thin film processing normally integrated the thin film into a multichip module or housing. Thin-film circuits can be used to provide a variety of functions within a T/R module. Examples are power dividers, detector circuits, limiter, and transmission lines between MMICs. It is extremely common for thin film to be used to fabricate Lange couplers used to combine high-power amplifier MMICs. This is because of the thin lines and narrow spacing required by the couplers. A variety of thin circuits are shown in Figure 5.12.
5.4.2 Thick-Film Ceramic
Thick-film processing starts with a hard substrate, normally ceramic. The thick-film process is illustrated in Figure 5.13. Thick film has several advantages and some drawbacks compared to thin film. The advantages are:
1.The designer is not restricted to one value of ohm/square for resistors.
2.It is possible to have low-cost solid vias (gold, copper, or silver).
3.High-volume thick film has a lower cost than thin film.
4.It is possible to use printed metal and dielectric layers to create complex circuits.
Thick film suffers from some drawbacks compared to thin film. Most of the limitations are due to the fact that thick film is printed. The drawbacks are:


Figure 5.12 Photograph of various thin-film circuits. (Image courtesy of UltraSource, Inc., Hollis, New Hampshire.)



Figure 5.13 Illustration of the thick-film printing process. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)

1.The narrowest printed line is about 75 μm, although 125 μm is a standard process.
2.Etched thick film can realize lines as narrow as 25 μm, but it is more costly.
3.Line width resolution is 25 to 50 μm, resulting in more variation in line impedance.
4.The surface roughness of thick film can increase line losses.
Thick-film processing consists of 10 main elements:
1.Thick-film paste (or ink): The metal, resistor, and dielectric layers are created using a paste that suspends the material to be printed. The most common metal material is gold, but other metals can be used such as copper (Cu), silver (Ag), palladium silver (AuPd), platinum palladium silver (AgPdPd), and platinum gold (AuPt). Thick-film metal is typically 8 to 12 μm thick, although etched thick film can be as thin as 1 to 2 μm. Gold is preferred due to its high conductivity and compatibility with wirebonding. Resistive material is printed to create resistors and the material is often referred to as ink. One benefit of thick film is that multiple resistor ink ohm per square (ohm/□) values can be used. This can be a significant benefit for designs requiring very large value resistors and very small value resistors on the substrate.
2.Squeegee: A squeegee is used to press the paste onto the ceramic substrate through a mesh and emulsion on a screen. Manual or automatic machines move the squeegee across the screen. The process is optimized so that the right pressure is used to create a consistent pattern result and protect the screen.
3.Frame: The metal frame is a mechanical support for the screen and emulsion. Thick-film frames are normally fabricated from aluminum and provide mechanical stability required for precision screen printing. The frame physical features and size are fixed by the requirements of the printing machine.
4.Screen (or mesh): Screens are manufactured from stainless steel or polyester and the mesh opening is an important parameter for them. This is due to the fact that mesh openings affect line resolution that is fabricated since the maximum particle size in the paste must fit through the mesh opening. In other words, if the feature to be printed is smaller than the mesh opening, then the opening in the mesh emulsion may cover it. If this occurs, then the paste will not pass through the mesh. However, if the opening in the mesh emulsion is too small, then the particles in the paste may not fit through the mesh. Over time, the screens wear out due to stretching for the pressure used in printing.
5.Emulsion: The emulsion is the pattern in the screen through which the paste passes. It creates the actual pattern that is printed on the substrate. The thickness of the printed features is determined by the emulsion thickness.
6.Desired metal pattern: The pattern that is intended for the circuit must be designed properly and the data converted so that each processes has its own mask layer. To achieve the desired end result with metal patterns, resistors, and dielectric layers, there may be from 5 to 50 or more print and fire cycles.
7.Ceramic substrate: Thick-film processing uses hard substrates normally of ceramic, although metal can also be used. Prior to thick-film processing, the substrates are sent for laser machining to create the required circuit holes and alignment features. Laser machining is accomplished using very high-power CO2 lasers.
8.Printing machine: The machine used to print the paste layers is either manual or fully automatic. The printing machine holds and aligns the substrate and the fame. An important part of the machine is the squeegee and its movement mechanism. Manual printing machines can have a very long service life of 20 years or more.
9.Etching (option): An attractive option for circuits requiring fine lines and spacing is etched thick film. In this process a layer of gold is printed over the portion of the circuit requiring fine lines. Then thin-film etching processes are used to create the pattern. Using this method, it is possible to realize line widths as small as 25 μm.
10.Postprocessing: After the thick-film processing is completed, some applications require postprocessing such as resistor trimming and metal brazing. For instance, when resistors are used, they are designed to be 80% of the final desired value. Resistors are laser trimmed to the final desired value. Other postprocess steps are the inclusion of metal features such as ring frames. Metal features are often brazed using AgSn or other solder.
5.4.3 Thermally Enhanced Thick-Film Processes
An attractive option for some very high power circuits with significant heat dissipation is direct bond copper (DBC) and high thermal conductivity-filled vias. The processing steps for DBC vary with supplier, but Figure 5.14 shows the cross-section of an alumina substrate with directly bonded copper. Other methods for realizing thick copper include thick copper plate over printed thick film silver [20].
5.4.4 High-Temperature Co-Fired Ceramic (HTCC)
HTCC ceramic is a commonly used processing technique for electronic packages. It is has been successfully used to create transmit receive modules. There is a stable installed base of fabricators that own thick-film fabrication. HTCC is fired at very high temperature such as approximately 1,600°C for alumina and approximately 2,000°C for aluminum nitride. Another important characteristic about HTCC is that it is fabricated by firing multiple layers of material to create a homogenous substrate. HTCC uses refractory metals for the conductor layers due to the high processing temperatures required for the ceramic. Noble metals such as gold, silver, and copper would not survive the firing temperature. Refractory metals such as tungsten (W) and molybdenum (Mo) are used.
A simplified process flow for HTCC is shown in Figure 5.15. The process steps are:
1.Slurry: The slurry is the liquid ceramic material used to create the dielectric layers. The slurry consists of ceramic, glass, binding material, and solvents. Many fabricators formulate and manufacture their own slurry while others purchase green tape.


Figure 5.14 Direct bond copper (DBC) uses a layer of copper foil, which is bonded at a high temperature (1,000°C) to form a strong bond to the alumina substrate. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)



Figure 5.15 Illustration of the processing steps to realize co-fired packaging. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)

2.Tape casting: The ceramic layers are created by pushing the slurry past a tape casting stage. This creates "green" alumina tape layers. The layers are not actually green but are white or off-white in color. Once the green tape layers are dry, they are flexible and feel like vinyl seat material. They vary in thickness from 0.1 mm to 0.5 mm, depending on the needs of the final ceramic package.
3.Punching: Since tape layers can have distinct via sizes and locations, each tape layer is separately punched with holes. For low-volume fabrication, numerically controlled (NC) punch machines are used for hole formation. High-volume production uses tools with multiple punches to generate the holes in the green tape.
4.Via filling and conductor printing: Vias are filled with metal paste and each layer is printed with the required metal pattern. The via filling and printing process is essentially the same as for thick film except that, for HTCC, the metal is not fired prior to stacking. Instead, the firing (sintering) occurs after the layers are stacked together.
5.Stacking, pressing, and co-fired: Prior to sintering, the layers are then stacked and pressed. They are then co-fired to create the T/R module package or substrate. During the firing process, the solvents are burned away and the material shrinks in volume by about 20%. Fabricators have developed methods to control and predistort the metal patterns so that the final product achieves the required conductor locations and dimensions.
6.Postprocessing: HTCC ceramic is postprocessed in ways that are similar to thick-film ceramic. For instance, HTCC ceramic can be plated, lapped, ultrasonically machined, or brazed with metal such as seal rings, leads, and heat sinks. Brazing is normally with silver copper or gold tin eutectics. Figure 5.16 shows several finished HTCC parts with gold plating and brazed metal base.
5.4.5 Low-Temperature Co-Fired Ceramic (LTCC) Materials
One of the differentiating characteristics of LTCC is that it is fired at much lower temperatures than HTCC. This allows noble metals such as gold and silver to be used for the metal conductors, which can be important for some T/R module since conductor loss is an important loss mechanism for the transmission lines used. Another differentiating characteristic of LTCC is that some suppliers have ceramic formulations that have a lower dielectric loss tangent than HTCC alumina. This can be another important benefit for some T/R modules, especially at millimeter-wave frequencies. LTCC has been used for applications as high as W-band [21-23].


Figure 5.16 Photograph of several HTCC finished parts. (Image courtesy of Adtech Ceramics Company, Chattanooga, Tennessee.)

5.5 Laminate Packaging
Laminate circuit boards, often called printed wiring boards (PWB) or printed circuit board (PCB), have moved from being only useful for low-frequency applications to the preferred method for ultralow-cost T/R modules. The most common PCB material is FR-4; however, it has limited application for T/R modules except for applications below a few gigahertz. This is due to its high loss tangent. Therefore, laminates with low dielectric loss and stable material properties have been developed. Laminate multichip modules (MCM-L) methods provide the designer the option to create highly integrated solutions using low-cost PCB techniques.
5.5.1 Laminate Board Fabrication
The fabrication steps for laminate circuit boards are shown in Figure 5.17. The first step is delivery of the database to the supplier and the process ends with final testing and inspection. The process steps shown in the figure are simplified for clarity. Nevertheless, the figure does show the major fabrication steps. Also, each manufacturer has its own process that can vary from what is shown in Figure 5.17. For instance, some fabricators tailor the process with inspection points and bake-out steps. Despite this fact, the processes, as outlined, does provide an accurate overview. The process steps are:
1.Database review and acceptance: This step requires the designer to pass the engineering and manufacturing instructions to the supplier. Also, this step includes the review process by the board fabricator. The industry standard is Gerber files, hole drill file, and fabrication drawing.


Figure 5.17 Simplified laminate circuit board process flow. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)

2.Artwork generation: In this step, the fabricator generates the masks used in subsequent process steps. This includes etching and solder mask. The physical artwork is created by dedicated machines that generate transparent film with the metal pattern.
3.Clean layers: Cleaning the layers of laminate is important so that contaminates are removed prior to patterning and etching. Otherwise, surface contaminates can cause rejects due to improper metal etching. Some boards already have photoresist material, so the cleaning operation is not used.
4.Pattern and etch: The laminate boards have copper cladding on both sides and the photoresist is used to create the desired pattern.
5.Bake-out: Board processes require bake-out at several points during fabrication. This step removes volatile substances before the next process steps. Bake out is usually at 120°C-150°C for 30 to 120 minutes.
6.Oxide treatment of inner layers for adhesion: Most processes use a step for treatment of the inner layers of copper to improve their adhesion to subsequent layers and prepregs. For instance, black oxide is used for this purpose. The black oxide is from the copper oxide (also called cupric) in the tank. Mil-F-495E specification is for black oxide use on copper metals and has been used by manufacturers.
7.Alignment and lamination: Multilayer boards must achieve good alignment between layers. This is especially true for T/R modules that have RF transitions between layers. Therefore, alignment fixtures are used to ensure that layers are properly aligned during the lamination process. Figure 5.18 shows the stack-up of a laminate circuit board.


Figure 5.18 Cross-section of the material stack-up of a typical laminate circuit board. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)The figure shows the core material and prepreg layers. The prepreg layers melt under lamination and form around the metal features.

8.Drill and deburr: The circuit boards are drilled and deburred after the lamination process. This step used the hole drill information from the hole drill file, which includes the locations of the holes and the type of tool to use for each hole. The tool data instructs the drill machine, which diameter tool to use for creating the hole. The removal of extra material at the hole drill locations is achieved during the deburr process.
9.Through-hole plating: Electroless copper plating is used for plate of drilled holes. The plating creates a barrel plate. However, it is possible to have a fully filled via as shown in Figure 5.19. It is more common to have barrel-coated vias. If filled vias are desired, they are filled with conductive epoxy and plated over with copper. This method is commonly used for some QFN packages with thermal pads so that solder flow can be controlled to achieve maximum adhesion.
10.Solder mask: Creation of the solder mask on the circuit board is important since it creates the openings for most of the solder-attached components. However, most T/R module boards only use solder mask in locations where dc or low-frequency circuits are located. This is because the solder mask will negatively impact transmission line performance if it is placed over them.
11.Finish plating: Finish plating is the step that covers exposed copper and improves reliability. However, it can also be used to create copper traces that are compatible with wire bonding. This is especially important for T/R modules that use bare die integrated circuits. In this case, the metallization for the copper traces must be carefully considered and tight fabrication control must be maintained with board fabricator and plating supplier. One metallization solution is Electroless Nickel/Electroless Palladium/Immersion Gold (ENEPIG). IPC-4556 is a specification that is used to control this process. Typical values for the metal thicknesses are 100-150 micro-inches of nickel, 8-15 micro-inches of palladium, and 1-2 micro-inches of gold. However, care must be taken in using ENEPIG metal to ensure that the gold concentration is not high enough to cause issues with solder connections (namely, gold embrittlement).


Figure 5.19 Image of a barrel coated via filled with solder in a laminate circuit board. (Image courtesy of NewTek PCB in Orange, California.)

12.Silkscreen and CNC routing: The silkscreen layer is used to create reference designators, notation on the board, logos, part number, and instructions on the surface of the laminate. It is defined by a layer in the Gerber files. The final step is CNC routing, which cuts out the individual substrates from the panel in which they were fabricated.
13.Electrical testing and inspection: The laminate board is electrically tested prior shipment. This steps checks for shorts, opens, and transmission-line impedance. Final visual inspection confirms specification compliance.
5.5.2 High-Performance Laminate Materials
For application at microwave and millimeter-wave frequencies, FR-4 is not a practical choice as the material for transmission lines. This is due to the fact that it has a very high dielectric loss tangent, which means that the RF signal energy is absorbed by the FR-4 and dissipated as heat. Therefore, high-quality laminate materials are used that have much lower dielectric losses and also lower dielectric constant. These improved materials can have dielectric losses that are 10 to 50 times lower than FR-4.
5.5.3 Liquid Crystal Polymers
Liquid crystal polymer (LCP) is a type of partially crystalline polyester. Although its crystal structure is less ordered than a regular crystal, it is possible to create ordered structure while remaining in the liquid phase. It is inert, which makes it a candidate for many applications including food processing and industrial and consumer products. One of the benefits of LCP material is that it has very low water absorption rates. This is important for high-reliability applications or for applications that use unprotected integrated circuits that are mounted onto the LCP material. They are halogen-free and inherently flame-resistant and can be fabricated to have a low coefficient of thermal expansion [24-34].
5.5.4 MCM-L Laminate Multichip Modules
Modules have been formed using laminate substrates. The cost benefits are significant when compared to traditional multichip modules that use metal housings or ceramic packages. In fact, the cost benefit offered by laminates has made some millimeter-wave product feasible. These laminate modules are called laminate multichip module (MCM-L).
Oppermann, Thurow, and Bunz demonstrated that PCB laminate can be used for phased array T/R modules. Figure 5.20 show an image of it. It uses a SP3T switch to select between a high-power transmit mode with up to 10-W output power and a lower-power communications mode with approximately 0.5-W to 1.0-W output power. All of the MMICs are integrated into surface mount technology (SMT) solder attach packages so that all the components are solder-connected to the PCB. The motivation for integrating the T/R module in the PCB laminate is to achieve lower cost. The cost benefit was achieved because PCB material and processing has a lower cost than competing methods such as ceramic and it allows for easy integration of SMT packages containing MMIC integrated circuits.
5.6 Conclusions
It is critically important that developers of T/R modules know the relevant properties of each material used. This includes electrical, thermal, and mechanical properties. Some of the common materials used in T/R modules are thin-film ceramics, thick-film ceramics, high-temperature co-fired ceramic (HTCC), and low-temperature co-fired ceramic (LTCC). Printed circuit board (PCB) methods have also been used since they have a lower cost.


Figure 5.20 A T/R module realized in a low-cost laminate circuit board with a selectable communications or radar mode in transmit. (© 2014 IEEE, Reprinted, with permission, from [35].)

Problems
5.1What are the four main electrical concerns about materials that are used in T/R modules?
5.2What is the difference between dielectric constant and dielectric loss tangent?
5.3Name three methods that are used to measure dielectric constant and loss tangent of materials.
5.4What is metal conductivity? How is the concept of ohms/square used for calculating the resistance of conductor traces? What is the resistance of a trace that is 0.1 mm wide and 1.5 mm long with 0.25 ohm/square?
5.5What is the difference between thermal conductivity and thermal expansion?
5.6What three differences between thin film and thick film?
5.7What are HTCC and LTCC? What are three differences between HTCC and LTCC?
5.8What are some of the advantages of using a laminate PCB for a T/R module?
References
[1]Sturdivant, R., Microwave and Millimeter-Wave Electronic Packaging, Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2014.
[2]Chen, L. F., et al., Microwave Electronics: Measurement and Materials Characterization New York: John Wiley & Sons, 2004, pp. 2-6.
[3]Baker-Jarvis, J., et al., "Dielectric Characterization of Low-Loss Materials: A Comparison of Techniques," IEEE Trans. on Dielectrics and Electrical Insulation, Vol. 5, No. 4, 1998, pp. 571-577.
[4]Baker-Jarvis, J., et al., "Dielectric and Conductor-Loss Characterization and Measurements on Electronic Packaging Materials," U.S. Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology: NIST Technical Note 1520, July 2001.
[5]Olyphant, M., and J. H. Ball, "Stripline-Line Methods for Dielectric Measurements at Microwave Frequencies," IEEE Trans. on Electrical Insulation, Vol. EI-5, No. 1, 1970, pp. 26-32.
[6]Waldron, I., "Ring Resonator Method for Dielectric Permittivity Measurement of Foams," MS Thesis, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, May 2006.
[7]Van Heuven, J. H. C., and T. H. A. M. Vlek, "Anisotropy in Alumina Substrates for Microstrip Lines (Short Papers)," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 20, No. 11, 1972, pp. 775-777.
[8]Fritsch, U., and I. Wolff, "Characterization of Anisotropic Substrate Materials for Microwave Applications," MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, Albuquerque, NM, June 1-5, 1992, pp. 1131-1134.
[9]Rautio, J. C., and B. J. Rautio, "Highly Accurate Broadband Measurement of Anisotropic Dielectric Constant Using a Shielded Planar Dual Mode Resonator," Microwave Measurements Symposium: 74th ARFTG, Boulder, CO, December 1-4, 2009, pp. 1-5.
[10]Dankov, P. I., "Dielectric Anisotropy of Modern Microwave Substrates" Ch. 4 of Microwave and Millimeter-Wave Technologies: From Photonic Bandgap Devices to Antenna and Applications, Rijeka, Croatia: InTech, 2010, pp. 75-101.
[11]Kulke, R., et al., "Investigation of Ring-Resonator on Multilayer LTCC," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium: Workshop on Ceramic Interconnect Technologies, Phoenix, AZ, May 20-25, 2001, pp. 1-4.
[12]Yu, C. -C., and K. Chang, "Transmission-Line Analysis of a Capacitively Coupled Microstrip-Ring Resonator," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 45, No. 11, 1997, pp. 2018-2024.
[13]Kirschning, M., and R. H. Jansen, "Accurate Model for the Effective Dielectric Constant of Microstrip with Validity Up to Millimeter-Wave Frequencies," Electronic Letters, Vol. 18, No. 6, 1982, pp. 272-273.
[14]Schneider, M. V., "Microstrip Lines for Microwave Integrated Circuits," The Bell Systems Technical Journal, May-June 1969, pp. 1421-1444.
[15]Kent, G., "A Resonant Mode Dielectrometer for Substrates," Microwave Measurements Symposium: 37th ARFTG, Boston, MA, June 1991, pp. 21-25.
[16]Kent, G., and S. M. Bell, "The Gap Correction for the Resonant-Mode Dielectrometer," IEEE Trans. on Instrumentation and Measurement, Vol. 45, No. 1, 1996, pp. 98-101.
[17]Kent, G., "Non-Destructive Permittivity Measurements of Substrates," MTT-S International Microwave Symposium Digest, Boulder, CO, June 27-July 1, 1994, pp. 352- 353.
[18]Kent, G., "Non-Destructive Permittivity Measurements of Substrates," IEEE Trans. on Instrumentation and Measurement, Vol. 45, No. 1, 1996, pp. 102-106.
[19]Thomas A. Edison, U.S. Patent Number 713,863, Filed June, 1900, Awarded November 18, 1902.
[20]Remtec, Inc., www.remtec.com.
[21]Rigaudeau, L., et al., "LTCC Millimeter Wave Device Combining Both Filtering and Radiating Functions for Q Band Applications," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, San Francisco, CA, June 11-16, 2006, pp. 756-759.
[22]Baras, T., and A. F. Jacob, "Manufacturing Reliability of LTCC Millimeter-Wave Passive Components," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 56, No. 11, 2008, pp. 2574- 2581.
[23]Lee, J. H., et al., "Highly Integrated Millimeter-Wave Passive Components Using 3-D LTCC System-on-Package (SOP) Technology," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 53, No. 6, 2005, pp. 2220-2229.
[24]Interplex.com.
[25]Rjrpolymers.com.
[26]Roman, J. W., "Liquid Crystal Polymer in the New Age of Electronic Packaging," IMAPS New 35th Annual Symposium, May 6, 2008.
[27]Ito, E., "Benefits of LCP Usage on Air Cavity Packages and Electronic Components," IMAPS International Symposium on Microelectronics, San Jose, CA, November 1-5, 2009.
[28]Dougherty, D. J., et al., "Multi-Lead Organic Air-Cavity Package for High Power High Frequency RFICs," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, Boston, MA, June 7-12, 2009, pp. 473-476.
[29]Rogerscorp.com.
[30]Kingsley, N., "Liquid Crystal Polymer: Enabling Next-Generation Conformal and Multilayer Electronics," Microwave Journal, May 15, 2008, pp. 188-200.
[31]Aihara, K., et al., "Development of Multi-Layer Liquid Crystal Polymer Ka-Band Receiver Modules," Asia Pacific Microwave Conference, Bangkok, Thailand, December 11-14, 2007, pp. 1-4.
[32]Thompson, D. C., M. M. Tentzeris, and J. Papapolymerou, "Packaging of MMICs in Multilayer LCP Substrates," IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters, Vol. 16, No. 7, 2006, pp. 410-412.
[33]Laskar, J., et al., "On the Development of CMOS mmW and sub-THz Phased Array Technology for Communication/Sensing Nodes," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, Anaheim, CA, May 23-28, 2010, pp. 1312-1315.
[34]Dyadyuk, V., L. Stokes, and T. Merkle, "Experimental Evaluation of the E-Band Multi-Chip Modules Integrated Using Laminated LCP Substrates," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Workshop Series on Millimeter Wave Integration Techniques, Sitges, Spain, September 15-16, 2011, pp. 53-56.
[35]Oppermann, M., F. Thurow, and B. Bunz, "GaN/SiC MMICs and Packaging for Use in Future Transmit/Receive Modules," Electronics System-Integration Technology Conference (ESTC), Helsinki, Finland, September 16-18, 2014.







6
Heat Issues and Solutions for T/R Modules
6.1 Introduction to Thermal Issues and Solutions
This chapter discusses the thermal issues that must be addressed in T/R module development. The primary driving factor in thermal design is the heat generated by the electronics. Normally, the end goal of a proper thermal solution is to achieve a particular device reliability given the operating lifetime requirements and available cooling resources. The reliability of electronics degrades as the operating temperature increases. As a general rule of thumb for GaAs and GaN, a decrease of 10° in junction temperature results in a 2.5 to 3.5 times improvement in lifetime.1 In this chapter, we will review the general principles of heat transfer and the reliability prediction of electronics using the Arrhenius curve and will also show the fundamental physics that drive thermal solutions. We will then apply this information to the design and analysis of high-power amplifiers typically used in T/R modules.
The proper process for thermal design is to analyze every active device in the module to determine its junction temperature. This may reveal some surprising results. For instance, on a T/R module design in which one of the authors was involved, the highest junction temperature device was an amplifier in the amplitude control circuitry rather than the high-power amplifier (HPA). As a result, the material used to the amplitude control circuit was modified to lower the device junction temperature. While it is true that every active device must be analyzed for junction temperature and lifetime, for the most part, the primary heat transfer concern in T/R modules is the HPA. Notice how Figure 6.1 shows a wideband HPA, developed by the European company Cassidian (now Airbus Defense and Space) and the Fraunhofer Institute of Applied Solid-State Physics (IAF) in Germany realized in GaN for application to T/R modules in phased array radar. Significant work has been done on GaN reliability [2-4].
The reason the HPA is normally of greatest concern is because it generates significantly more thermal power than any other component in a T/R module. This is even more so as high-power amplifiers based on wide bandgap materials such as silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN) make their way into modules. Until recently, gallium arsenide (GaAs) was the primary semiconductor material used for high power amplifiers in T/R modules. It typically generated about 1 W/mm (output power/mm of total gate periphery). The attraction of the wide bandgap materials is that they are capable of reliably generating 5 W/mm. The much higher output power capability of wide bandgap materials means that they can improve the radar output power from the T/R module by up to a factor of 5 over prior products. However, this increased output power comes at a price. Namely, the HPA will have increased heat flux.
6.2 Heat Flux in MMIC High-Power Amplifiers
For high-power amplifiers, increased output power means that there will be more heat dissipated. The thermal concern in high-power amplifiers is compounded by the fact that the heat flux in HPA MMICs is much higher than conventional electronics. Lower-frequency electronics have power densities that are typically 1 to 30 W/cm2 [5]. However, RF amplifiers can have power densities that are 200-2,500 W/cm2. In addition, for most lower-frequency parts fabricated in CMOS, the heat-generating parts are evenly distributed over the face of the integrated circuit. This is not the case for most high heat dissipating microwave integrated circuits. Instead, the heat-generating components are normally clustered together for electrical performance reasons such as to achieve the highest output power. To illustrate this point, consider the standard heat flux definition:


Figure 6.1 The 10-W GaN 6-18-GHz high-power amplifier: (a) image showing reactive matching on the 5.5 mm × 3.5 mm MMIC, and (b) measured output power (solid curve) and power-added efficiency (PAE) under pulsed conditions (50 mS/500 mS pulse ratio) at 30-V dc bias and 26-dBm input power. (© 2013 IEEE. Reprinted, with permission, from [1].)


where q″ = heat flux (W/m2), Q = power or the heat energy generated (W), and A = area over which the heat energy is leaving the heat source (m2).
Now, consider the GaN high-power amplifier shown in Figure 6.2. It has a die size that is 5.0 × 4.42 mm with components distributed over the face of the die. Note from the figure how most of the heat-dissipating components are concentrated in one area. In this case, the field effect transistors (FETs) are placed tightly together to achieve the highest output power possible. The high-power output stage transistors cover an area that is approximately 0.55 mm × 4.2 mm. The power dissipated by the transistor approximately 75W. Therefore, on the assumption that all that power is dissipated by the output stage of the amplifier (in reality, less than approximately 10% of the power will be dissipated by prior stages in the MMIC), the energy density at the bottom of the integrated circuit just under the FET devices can be calculated using (6.1) as:


Figure 6.2 GaN high-power amplifier (HPA) with 75W of output power in the 2.7-GHz to 3.5-GHz frequency range. (Image courtesy of Cree, Inc., Durham, North Carolina.)


This amount of heat flux is very common for all GaN high-power amplifiers used in T/R modules and some have higher heat flux. Therefore, careful attention must be paid to the proper selection of materials and manufacturing processes to maintain a junction temperature, which is within the limits of the manufacturer.
As a very practical illustration of what this level of power dissipation means, consider a common household clothes iron. Most clothes irons dissipate about 1,500W of energy when turned to the highest setting over an area that is about 25 × 12 cm. This results in a power density that is about 5 W/cm2. Therefore, the power density of the high-power amplifier output FETs is about 650 times higher than a clothes iron turned to its highest power setting.
Heat transfers from one area to another area due a temperature difference. The heat transfer is described using several different mechanisms. The first is conduction, which is heat transfer through a medium that is solid or a fluid that is stationary. The rate of heat transfer through a material in the x-direction, for instance, per unit area perpendicular to the direction of heat transfer is referred to as the heat flux and is expressed as

where k = thermal conductivity (W/mK) and dT/dx = temperature gradient in the x-direction.
The thermal conductivity, k, is dependent upon the type of material being used. For most practical materials, thermal conductivity varies as a function of temperature. However, in our analysis, we will assume that it is temperature-independent.
Thermal conductivity varies significantly for the various types of electronic packaging materials. Aluminum, for instance, has a thermal conductivity of approximately 220 W/mK. Alumina ceramic has a thermal conductivity of approximately 25 W/mK. LTCC ceramic has a thermal conductivity of approximately 2 W/mK. Plastic has a thermal conductivity of approximately 0.2 W/mK. The fact that the thermal conductivity of these materials varies by approximately progressive factors of 10 from each other makes it easy to remember and they are commonly used materials in T/R modules.
As an example, consider a block of aluminum that is L = 10 mm thick intimately connected to a motherboard. If the temperature at interface between the motherboard and aluminum is T1 = 50°C and the temperature on the opposite side of the alumina is T2 = 48°C, calculate the heat flux. From (6.2), we know that

Heat also transfers due to convection when a surface and a moving fluid are at different temperatures. Convection occurs because of conduction (heat diffusion) and because of the macroscopic motion of the fluid (advection). The conduction portion of the heat transfer occurs near the surface of the solid material where the motion of the fluid varies from zero (at the solid surface) to the maximum fluid velocity at some distance from the solid surface. In this case the heat flux is given by

where h = convection heat transfer coefficient (W/m2K), Ts = temperature at the surface of the solid (K), and T∞ = fluid temperature (K).
The convection heat transfer coefficient, h, includes all the physical contributions to the heat transfer such as the material parameters of the fluid, the surface treatment/geometry of the solid, and all the associated transport mechanism. In general, a laminar flow of the liquid will result in a lower heat transfer coefficient, but turbulent flowing liquid will have a larger heat transfer coefficient. This is due to the fact that turbulent flowing liquid results in a thinner layer of stagnant fluid at surface of the solid.
Heat also transfers due to radiation. This occurs from to the radiation of electromagnetic waves from the material. In contrast to conduction or convection, radiation does not require a medium for the transfer of energy. Rather, radiation is most effective in a vacuum, void of any matter. The heat flux radiated at a material surface is given by

where ε = the emissivity of the surface (0 ≤ ε ≤ 1), σ = the Stefan-Boltzmann constant (5.67 × 10−8 W/m2K4), and Ts = temperature of the surface (K).
The emissivity, ε, of the radiating surface is a figure of merit for how efficient the surface is at emitting radiation compared to an ideal radiation of energy.
6.3 Amplifier Efficiency and Dissipated Thermal Power
In the most general term, an amplifier accepts a low input signal and increase its amplitude. This amplification comes at a price which is dc bias power. The amplifier converts the dc bias power into power in the RF signal. Figure 6.3 illustrates an amplifier with a bias voltage, Vd, and bias current, Id. The power dissipation and efficiency for amplifiers were given in Chapter 2 and are repeated here for the convenience of the reader.
The dc power into the amplifier is

where VD = dc bias voltage and ID = dc bias current.
All practical amplifiers have a certain amount of inefficiency in the conversion of dc power into RF signal level. The efficiency that an amplifier converts dc power to RF power is called power-added efficiency (PAE), which is expressed as a percentage. This is a performance metric that is frequently used to characterize high-power amplifiers. The amplifier PAE is given by

where η = power-added efficiency (PAE), Pout = RF output power from the amplifier, Pin = RF input power to the amplifier, and Pdc = the dc power into the amplifier from the bias voltage and current.
Expressed as a percentage, PAE (%) = 100 ⋅ η, which is normally how it is used. Most high-power amplifier design activity centers on achieving the highest PAE as one of the major specifications of the device. The reason is quite straightforward and is that high-efficient amplifiers require less dc power drive for the same output power. In addition, higher-efficient amplifiers require less sophisticated and lower-cost cooling systems since the amplifier will generate less thermal energy.

Figure 6.3 Simplified diagram of an amplifier showing the input power (Pin), output power (Pout), bias voltage (Vd), and bias current (Id).
The thermal power dissipated in the amplifier is easily calculated. It is just the dc input power plus the RF input power and minus the RF output power. Therefore, the dissipated power in the amplifier is

By solving (6.6) for Pdc and substituting into (6.7),

Using (6.7) or (6.8), it is possible to determine the dissipated power for most amplifiers using data supplied by the manufacturer. Consider an X-band GaN amplifier that delivers an output power of 15W with an input power of 1W and uses a bias voltage of 24V and bias current of 1.5A. The dc power is
Pdc = 24V ×1.5A = 36.0W
The power-added efficiency is

The power dissipated is
Pdiss = Pdc + Pin − Pout = 36W +1W −15W = 22W
This calculation assumes that the amplifier is operated in CW mode, or that it is on all of the time. For many communication systems (such as full-duplex mode), this assumption is valid. For some radar applications (such as FMCW mode), this assumption is also valid. However, in most radar applications and for some communication systems (such as half-duplex mode), the HPA is only on for a short period of time such as 5%-50%. The percentage of time that the HPA is on is often referred to as the duty cycle. So a HPA that is on for only 10% of the time, the duty cycle is 10%. It can be immediately appreciated that if the HPA will have a low duty cycle, then the dissipated power will be much less. The duty cycle must be included in the calculations for dissipated power.
Returning to the CW-mode example, the amplifier will dissipate 22W of thermal energy, which must be accommodated by the T/R module, the array cold plates, and the array physical structure. Consider an array of 1,000 T/R modules using the 15-W X-band GaN amplifier. Just for the high-power amplifiers, the array would need to dissipate 22 KW of thermal power. When the other components in the T/R module and the other sources of efficiency degradation are considered, the total thermal power dissipated in the array can be two to three times this amount, or as much as 60 KW of thermal energy. For this reason, the thermal management design of a T/R modules and the rest of the phased array must be carefully considered.
6.4 Thermal Resistance and Device Junction Temperature
Once the power dissipated in an amplifier is known, it is possible to use that information to calculate the junction temperature. In practice, the temperature rise in a MMIC device from its device junction to its case (the bottom of the MMIC) is calculated using the thermal resistance. For semiconductor devices, the conventional language is thermal resistance from junction to case. Therefore, the thermal resistance is given as θjc where the subscript j is for junction and the subscript c is for case. This language is used for packaged devices where the semiconductor may be packaged inside a plastic case so that it makes since to speak of device junction to case. For bare die, such as a MMIC, the same language is used, except that the case now refers to the bottom of the MMIC as illustrated in Figure 6.4(a). It shows the cross-section of a MMIC with the device junction on the top of the MMIC.
For calculating the junction temperature, the thermal resistance is represented as a resistive element as shown in Figure 6.4(b). The heat flow is represented as a current. The temperatures are represented as voltages. Using this analogy between heat flow and electrical circuit modeling, one is able to determine the junction temperature of the MMIC. Normally, the thermal resistance is either supplied by the vendor of the MMIC or calculated using thermal analysis software. The concepts developed so far in this chapter can be applied to calculating the junction temperature of the MMICs and other integrated circuits in the T/R module, which is the topic of the next section.


Figure 6.4 (a) Thermal resistance of a MMIC is the temperature difference between the top and bottom of the die for a given amount of heat dissipated in the amplifier, and (b) the thermal resistance can be represented using the analogy of a resistor in an electric circuit.

6.5 Example of Heat Dissipated by Components in a T/R Module
As a practical example of the methods discussed so far, the junction temperature of heat dissipating integrated circuits in a T/R module will be calculated. Figure 6.5(a) shows a simplified block diagram of a T/R chip set. A simple market survey was conducted to find a possible set of actually MMICs to use for calculating junction temperature. Figure 6.5(b) shows the vendors and part numbers of the devices.2 The HPA uses GaN semiconductor to achieve an output power of 40W. The other MMICs use GaAs. After the chip set is chosen, the bias voltages, currents, input power, output power, and thermal resistance are used to build a spreadsheet as shown in the figure. There are several simplifications in Figure 6.5(b). For instance, the case temperature (mounting temperature on the bottom of the MMIC) is assumed to be the same for all the devices. This is normally not the case in practice. Also, the spreadsheet assumes the devices are operating in CW mode. That is, it assumes that the devices are on 100% of the time. However, this is certainly not the case in many applications. In addition, the table does not include other components such as the HEXFET used to modulate the drain of the HPA. Even with these simplifications, this spreadsheet demonstrates the principle for how to calculate the junction temperatures of the MMICs using their dissipated power and thermal resistance.

Figure 6.5 Junction temperatures can be simulated for (a) the simplified block diagram of a T/R module using (b) actual MMIC devices that can be commercially purchased.
Once the spreadsheet has been generated, it can be used to perform trade studies such as the impact of the mounting temperature on junction temperature. This can be a useful tool for other system level requirements such as the cooling system and material choices in the electronic packaging. Once the junction temperatures of the devices are known, then it is possible to calculate the expected lifetime of the devices.
6.6 Reliability Calculations
The expected lifetime of a semiconductor device is typically determined by performing accelerated life testing at high temperature. In other words, the device is placed in a chamber where it is subjected to high temperature under typical dc bias conditions and, often, with an applied RF signal. The rational for high temperature testing to determine device reliability is that the failure mechanisms for the device are present in the device junction and the rate of failures.
There are several challenges for accelerated life testing. One of them is that the devices must be tested at in fixtures that are subjected to temperatures of 250°C or higher. To further complicate the issues with maintaining this high temperature is that it must be precisely controlled during wide variations of ambient temperature changes and for extended periods of time as long as 2,000 to 3,000 hours (3 months) or more. In addition, specialized test equipment is required that provides the correct RF load impedance the device being measured, injects the required bias, and provides the correct RF drive level [6]. Figure 6.6 is an image of accelerated life test systems. They allow for multiple devices to be subjected to accelerated life testing under RF drive. This type of system is required to obtain the type of reliability data necessary for GaN and other high-power electronics.
The devices to be measured are loaded into the accelerated life testing system. After the testing is completed, the results are plotted as shown in Figure 6.7. Normally, at least three test points per device are generated, which means that the test needs to be completed three different times, each at a different temperature. Figure 6.7 shows the three data points. It illustrates that a lifetime follows a straight line curve when the mean time to failure (MTTF) is plotted on a logarithmic scale. The plot is often referred to as the Arrhenius curve.


Figure 6.6 Image of an accelerated life test systems. (Image courtesy of Accel-RF Corporation, San Diego, California.)



Figure 6.7 The measured results of life testing are plotted showing the channel temperature as a function of the logarithm of MTTF in hours.

The results of accelerated life testing are fitted to a curve, known as the Arrhenius curve, for extrapolation at lower temperatures. It is based on the Arrhenius equation, which gives the rate a failure will occur

where r = rate at which the diffusion process occurs, A = scaling constant, Ea = activation energy, k = Boltzmann's constant = 8.617 × 10−5 (eV/K), and T = temperature, Kelvin.
The mean time to failure is inversely proportional to the reaction rate. If we are able to measure the mean time to failure, MTTFH, at an elevated temperature, TH, and we want to know the mean time to failure, MTTFL, at a lower temperature, TL, then we have


If we divide (6.11) by (6.10) and solve for MTTFL, we obtain

Often, (6.12) is referred to as the acceleration factor. As an example of its usefulness, consider the case of a semiconductor device that has a 1,000-hour lifetime at a junction test temperature of 160°C with an activation energy, Ea of 0.7 eV. It is possible to find the lifetime if it is operated at a junction temperature of 60°C as

A curve fit to the measured data is used to obtain the activation energy using (6.12). Alternatively, the activation energy can be calculated directly using

Each failure mechanism will have its own activation energy. Some types of failure mechanisms are diffusion, contamination, intermetallics, corrosion, and gate defects. All the failure mechanisms related to the device junction temperature are effectively combined under accelerated life testing and characterized by the activation energy for the device. This is done because it is economically impractical to determine the activation energy for each failure mechanism and its contribution to the overall device failure. Moreover, the users of the devices are really only concerned with the overall activation energy for the device. The interested reader may consider the JEDEC JEP118 publication Guidelines for GaAs MMIC and FET Life Testing for more information [7]. MIL-STD-883 Method 1016 can also be consulted.
Besides MTTF, reliability is sometimes specified using the FIT (Failure unIT), which is the number of failures per billion device hours.
6.7 Diamond-Enhanced GaN High-Power Amplifiers for T/R Modules
GaN amplifiers are normally fabricated using a silicon carbide (SiC) wafer onto which the epitaxial layer is grown. This is illustrated in Figure 6.8(a). The epitaxial layer usually consists of a 1.2-μm transition layer, an 800-nm undoped GaN buffer layer, a 17-nm Al-Ga-N Schottky barrier, and a 2-nm-thick GaN cap layer [8]. Typically, the SiC layer, plus the GaN epitaxial stack, is 100 μm thick in a completed wafer ready for dicing.
However, in the case where diamond is used, the GaN epitaxial stack is grown on lower-cost silicon and processed to combine with diamond. The processing steps are illustrated in Figure 6.8(b). The GaN on silicon wafer is attached to a temporary carrier used to protect the active devices and circuit design on the GaN wafer topside. Then the silicon wafer is removed to expose the epitaxial layer. Then diamond is deposited directly on the backside of the wafer. After the temporary carrier layer is removed, the diamond-enhanced GaN wafer is ready for testing and dicing.
The reason that that diamond layer improves the thermal performance is because the thermal path from the GaN junction to the back of the MMIC sets the thermal resistance. By improving the thermal path, it is possible to realize lower-junction temperature devices. Alternatively, it is possible to take advantage of the increased thermal conductivity to design FET devices with increased power density and still maintain the same junction temperature.


Figure 6.8 (a) The GaN epitaxial layer is normally grown on SiC since it has good thermal conductivity, but (b) a series of process steps can be used to realize the diamond deposited directly to the back of the GaN wafer. (© 2014 Compound Semiconductor published by Angel Business Communications, Ltd. Reprinted, with permission, from [8].)

It is possible to illustrate the benefit of diamond-enhanced GaN using a simplified calculation procedure, which is fully described in [9]. With the simplifying assumption that the spreading angle in the heat spreader is 45° for all heat spreader materials that we will consider, the temperature rise from the back of the MMIC to the interface with the GaN can be approximated given by

where k = thermal conductivity of the heat spreader (W/mK), Q = heat energy created (W), h = thickness of the heat spreader (m), ΔT = temperature difference across the heat spreader layer (K), X = the dimension of the of the heat source in the x-direction, and Y = the dimension of the of the heat source in the y-direction.
Using (6.14) the benefit of using high thermal conductivity heat spreaders can be shown. Table 6.1 shows the most commonly used base materials (which function as heat spreaders in the MMIC) for GaN. These base materials spread the heat from the GaN junction. As can be seen from the table, the benefit of using diamond can be seen, the benefit of using diamond can be significant. Using this simplified analysis, CVD diamond can reduce the junction temperature by as much as a factor of 2.5 compared to silicon carbide.

Table 6.1
Commonly Used Base Materials for GaN


Thermal Conductivity
Temperature

Material
(W/mK)
Rise (°C)

Silicon
149
68.48

Silicon carbide
400
25.51

Diamond (CVD)
1,000
10.20

Diamond (ideal)
2,000-2,200
5.10



Using the simplifying assumptions and (6.14) it is possible to estimate the temperature rise for GaN on silicon, SiC, CVD diamond, and ideal diamond. Several studies have been performed to determine the benefit of using directly deposited diamond [8, 10, 11]. The measured results show that the thermal resistance for a device operating at 25V and a drain current of 130 mA had a thermal resistance of 7.44°C/W for GaN on diamond, 11.5°C/W for GaN on SiC, and 16.6°C/W for GaN on silicon.
6.8 Thermal Simulations Using SPICE
SPICE is a familiar simulation tool for many engineers, especially electrical engineers. It was developed for the purpose of performing transient modeling of electrical circuits. The familiarity of SPICE and the fact that it has been integrated into many of the commercially available microwave circuit simulators makes it attractive as a simulation platform for thermal modeling.
This approach is based upon the analogies between heat transfer and electrical circuit modeling. Heat flow can be modeled as electrical current, thermal resistivity can be modeled as electrical resistivity, and thermal capacity (thermal mass) can be modeled as electrical capacitance. If these analogies are applied, then the predicted voltages in the circuit can be interpreted as temperatures at the material interfaces.
A simplified SPICE model for a QFN mounted to a motherboard and heat sink is shown in Figure 6.9(a). The dissipated power is represented as a current source such that every watt of power dissipated is equal to 1A of current from PDISS.
As an example, consider an amplifier with a bias voltage of 5V and a current of 160 mA dissipates 0.8W so the current, IPDISS, is 0.8A. The manufacturer datasheet for the amplifier gives the θjc as 48°C/W, which is represented in the schematic as the thermal resistance, RQFN2. The motherboard has a thermal capacity, CMB, of 0.003 W ⋅ s/°C and thermal resistance, RMB, of 10°C/W. Finally, the motherboard is connected to a heat sink at an ambient temperature of 30°C. The heat sink is shown in the figure as a dc bias, VAmbient. Circuit simulation determined that the junction temperature for a constant thermal dissipation is 76.4°C. Figure 6.9(b) shows the transient response to a pulsed heat source. The results show that the thermal rise time is about 0.1 second.


Figure 6.9 Example of a transient thermal analysis: (a) schematic and (b) time-domain response. (© 2014 Artech House. Reprinted, with permission, from [9].)

The correlation between thermal simulation and electric circuit simulation can be seen by examining Table 6.2, which will help with translating thermal parameters into the parameters needed for electrical stimulation.

Table 6.2
Comparison of the Units Used for Heat Transfer Simulation in SPICE Simulators


Units for Heat
Units in the

Parameter Type
Transfer
Circuit Simulator

Thermal resistance
°C/W
Ohms

Thermal mass
J/°C
Farads

Dissipated power
Watts
Amps

Temperature
°C
Volts



6.9 Thermal Measurements
Thermal measurement of the junction temperature in MMIC devices is difficult due to the fact that the heat-generating structures have such small physical dimensions. Ideally, the measurement of device junction temperature would have the characteristics of [12]:
1.Spatial resolution that is less that the gate length of the transistor. Since most MMICs operating in the microwave and millimeter-wave range use device gate lengths that are 0.1 to 0.25 μm, the ideal spatial resolution would be some fraction of this dimension.
2.Temperature resolution fine enough to resolve the thermal gradients. This is because it would allow the ability to resolve temperature differences.
3.Temporal resolution fast enough to capture the transient thermal effects. In other words, the idea system would be capable of capturing the temperature change as a function of time with enough resolution to show the temperature rise from ambient to its steady state value.
4.No interference with the thermal performance of the device being tested. That is, the test method would not cause changes that would compromise the integrity of the measurement.
These idea goals for measurement of device thermal performance cannot be achieved with existing measurement methods. However, some techniques have been developed that do allow for useful characterization of the temperature of the devices.
6.9.1 Electrical Test Methods
One method for measuring device temperatures is to use a Schottky barrier diode and its dc I-V (current voltage) characteristics. This is possible because the temperature-dependent behavior of the diode dc I-V is well known. One benefit of this method is that it is capable of very high temporal resolution because of the very fast transport characteristics of the diode. However, the spatial resolution is limited because the diode is large compared to the heat-generating region of the device. Also, a calibration method is usually required that sets a known point on the dc I-V curve at one temperature. Often this method is combined with other techniques.
6.9.2 Optical Methods
Optical methods are the most familiar because of the widespread use of thermal images in the entertainment industry, military systems, and consumer devices. For instance, it is now possible to purchase a thermal imaging attachment for smartphone at consumer price points.3
Beside the popular use of thermal imaging, it has been successfully used in imaging electronic components for many decades [13]. Two of the common methods used are infrared and Raman thermography. One of the limitations of infrared thermography is that its spatial resolution is limited to approximately 5 to 10 μm due to the fundamental wavelength of the blackbody radiation from the surface being imaged. Infrared frequencies are 300 GHz to 430 THz. Typical thermal imaging is conducted in frequencies of 20 to 40 THz because of the radiation level for typical temperatures being measured. The spatial resolution is limited by the wavelength, which can be calculated at 40 THz as

At 20 THz the spatial resolution limit is approximately 15 μm. This means that it is not possible to obtain a spatial resolution for thermal imaging that is any better than 7.5 to 15 μm. This has significant implications for imaging the submicron features typical of modern semiconductor devices.
For instance, this means that the thermal imaging down to the actual physical junction features of a FET device is not possible since the gate length for microwave and millimeter-wave devices used in communication and radar systems is typically less than 0.25 μm and often less than 0.15 μm. However, it is critically important for heat transfer engineers to have empirical measurements that can confirm the accuracy of their models and numerical solution methods. The thermal analyst is faced with the challenge of modeling submicron features but only being able to perform infrared imaging at wavelengths that are 10 to 100 times larger than the transistor gate length.
The normal procedure for handling this challenge is to use numerical methods such as finite element or finite difference to calculate the junction temperature. Then the average temperature is determined over a portion of the device junction length. It is very common for the averaging length to be between 7.5 μm and 10 μm. The calculated average temperature is compared to thermal images for confirmation of the thermal calculations.
6.9.3 Temperature Measurements Using Liquid Crystal Thermography
Liquid crystal thermography can be conducted using nematic or chromatic crystals. Nematic crystals have been used to measure GaN amplifiers with reported spatial resolution down to ~1 m [14, 15]. Nematic crystals are gray and have a well-defined transition temperature accuracy of approximately ±1°C and rely upon the transition of the crystals from an orderly array with predictable polarization to random array without polarization. The transition point is called the nematic-isotropic (N-I) transition temperature.
Thermonchromic liquid crystals (TLC) can be used to perform thermal imaging. Chromatic crystals have a full-color response to temperature with comparable resolution to the nematic crystals. Figure 6.10 illustrates the color dependence of the crystals to temperature change. It has the drawback of requiring the TLC to be in direct contact with the material being imaged. However, the benefit is that the temperature is converted into visible light wavelength, which can be read to give the surface temperature. The TLC material operates by changing its reflected light color as a function of temperature when illuminated by white light. Common everyday examples of TLC materials include mood rings and some thermometers used in fish tanks.


Figure 6.10 Graph illustrating the approximate relative wavelength of light and the visible light spectrum emitted by thermonchromic liquid crystals (TLC).

For high-quality thermal imaging of electronics, special TLC formulations have been developed. These materials are used in conjunction with imaging cameras, calibration methods, and imaging software. The software breaks the captured thermal image into its color components (i.e. the red, green, blue, or RGB values). Since high-quality TLC materials are carefully characterized, the functional relationship between its color components and temperature is well known. This allows precise temperature determination once the color components are determined. One of the benefits of liquid crystal thermography is that rapid, although less precise, temperatures can be obtained by visual inspection under a microscope of the colors. One of the drawbacks is that it requires the specimen being images to be properly prepared (coated black) and precise measurement requires a high-quality optical camera and software.
6.9.4 Thermal Design Using Surrogate Validation Chips
A group of researchers developed a practical method for thermal measurement using thermal surrogate validation chips [16]. The validation method uses heat-dissipating devices that are designed to replicate the thermal dissipation of the integrated circuit. In the case of GaN MMICs, the validation chip is fabricated on a GaN or SiC substrates. The heat is generated using a deposited layer of NiCr resistor material that is approximately 1,700 angstroms thick. The heat-generating resistors are design to have the same location as the junctions of the field effect transistors of the actual MMIC amplifier. This arrangement with resistive elements allows for detailed measurement of the thermal performance of multiple candidate cooling systems with the concern of damaging expensive MMIC amplifiers. Also, it allows greater freedom in directly controlling the amount of heat generated. Figure 6.11 shows an image of a validation chip fabricated on a GaN/SiC wafer. Thermal imaging can be used to compare measured imaging to predicted performance.
6.10 Conclusions
This chapter discussed the heat transfer challenges in T/R module development for communication and radar systems. It was shown that the main heat-generating device is normally the high-power amplifier, although every active device should be analyzed for maximum junction temperature. Methods were presented for calculating dissipated power and for calculating the maximum junction temperature. Using this information, the reliability of the electronic components was determined using Arrhenius curves generated from long-term life testing. Thermal management methods such as direct diamond attachment were discussed. Finally, this chapter reviewed methods for thermal analysis and temperature measurement.


Figure 6.11 Heat sources can be fabricated to create a validation chip for thermal measurement. (© 2011 IEEE. Reprinted, with permission, from [16].)

Problems
6.1What are the benefits of using GaN over GaAs for high-power amplifiers?
6.2How high can the heat flux for high-power amplifiers reach?
6.3What is the power-added efficiency of an amplifier operating off a 24-V supply drawing 500 mA with an output power of 10W under 0.5W of RF drive? What is the dissipated power?
6.4What is thermal resistance and why does it impact the junction temperature of a MMIC?
6.5What is an Arrhenius curve? What is mean time to failure and why is it important for T/R modules?
6.6When using SPICE to simulate a thermal circuit, what circuit element represents the power?
References
[1]Schmid, U., et al., "Ultra-Wideband GaN MMIC Chip Set and High Power Amplifier Module for Multi-Function Defense AESA Applications," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory and Tech., Vol. 61, No. 8, 2013, pp. 3043-3051.
[2]Kayali, S., G. Ponchak, and R. Shaw, GaAs MMIC Reliability Assurance Guideline for Space Applications, JPL Publication 96-25, December 15, 1996.
[3]Via, G. D., "GaN Reliability - Where We Are and Where We Need to Go," CS MANTECH Conference, May 2014.
[4]Gajewski, D., S. Sheppard, and T. McNulty, "Reliability of GaN/AlGaN MMIC Technology on 100-mm 4H-SiC," 26th Annual JEDEC ROCS Workshop, May 2011, pp. 141-145.
[5]Borkar, S., "Design Challenges of Technology Scaling," IEEE Micro Magazine, Vol. 19, No. 4, 1999, pp. 23-29.
[6]Shaw, R., D. Sanderlin, and J. DeJulio, "Performance Characterization, Repeatability, and Consistency of X-Band GaN HEMTs Prior to High Temperature RF Reliability Testing," JEDEC, 2006.
[7]"Guidelines for GaAs MMIC and FET life testing," JEP 118, www.jedec.org, Jan. 1993.
[8]Ejeckam, F., "Keeping Cool with Diamond," Compound Semiconductor, Vol. 20, No. 7, 2014, pp. 41-46.
[9]Sturdivant, R., Microwave and Millimeter-Wave Electronic Packaging, Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2014.
[10]Altman, D., et al. "Analysis and Characterization of Thermal Transport in GaN HEMTs on Diamond Substrates," 14th IEEE ITHERM Conference, Orlando, FL, May 27-30, 2014, pp. 1199-1205.
[11]Via, G. D., et al, "Wafer-Scale GaN HEMT Performance Enhancement by Diamond Substrate Integration," Physica Status Solidi C, No. 3-4, 2014, pp. 871-874.
[12]Beechem, T., "Metrology of GaN Electronics Using Micro-Raman Spectroscopy," Doctoral Thesis, Georgia Institute of Technology, 2008.
[13]Zhang, Z., "Surface Temperature Measurement Using Optical Techniques," Annual Review of Heat Transfer, Vol. 11, 2000, pp. 351-411.
[14]Minot, M. M., "Thermal Characterization of Microwave Power FETs Using Nematic Liquid Crystals," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, Baltimore, MD, June 2-4, 1986, pp. 495-498.
[15]Park, J., M. W. Shin, and C. C. Lee, "Thermal Modeling and Measurement of GaN-Based HFET Devices," IEEE Electron. Dev. Lett., Vol. 24, No. 7, 2003, pp. 424-426.
[16]Harris, M., et al., "Thermal Analysis and Validation of Packaging for 100W and Higher GaN MMIC Power Amplifiers," 12th Annual IEEE Wireless and Microwave Technology Conference (WAMICON), April 18-19, 2011.

1.This rule of thumb is for GaAs and GaN devices with activation energy of approximately 1.6-2.0 eV operating in the range of 125°C to 150°C. See [2-4] for more detail on activation energy for GaAs and GaN
2.The Core T/R is part number CHC3014-99F from United Monolithic Semiconductor in Villebon-sur-Yvette, France. The HPA is from Cree Semiconductor in Durham, North Carolina. The Driver Amplifier is from Analog Devices-Hittite Microwave in Chelmsford, Massachusetts. The LNA is from Analog Devices-Triquint Semiconductor in Richardson, Texas.
3.See, for instance, the thermal imaging attachment developed by www.flir.com







7
MMIC Fabrication and T/R Module Manufacturing
7.1 Introduction
Hundreds of thousands of T/R modules have been manufactured and installed into AESAs and the quantities will continue to grow as active arrays become prevalent in communication systems, additional defense radars and other defense transmit/receive systems. Production of consistent, reliable, cost effective T/R modules is essential to support the application needs. In addition, it is critical that the T/R module manufacturing industry be sustainable to support systems that have significantly long use requirements.
T/R module manufacturing processes must be highly automated and well controlled. However, manufacturing facilities must be able to adapt to the ever evolving T/R module designs as modules move from single channels, twin packs and on to multiple channel assemblies. Manufacturing operations must be able to accommodate advances in semiconductor component technologies that include bare die and packaged components.
Defense radar manufacturers consider T/R module manufacturing to be a core competency and a capability that they must own to be competitive. As a result, these companies invest in T/R module manufacturing to assure their facility is state-of-the-art. Automation permits cost-effective production of both high quantities during full rate production and small quantities in prototype development.
T/R module manufacturing builds on fundamental processes where each T/R that is built leverages lessons learned on past module production using the same manufacturing technologies, peronnel, and processes. T/R module manufacturing its self is relatively low risk after initial development that includes understanding the RF chipset, designing the RF interconnects and understanding the packaging constraints [1].
T/R module manufacturing is strongly influenced by the MMICs that make up a large percentage of the cost of the modules and are the predominant contributor to their performance. As a result, this chapter focuses on both MMIC fabrication and T/R module manufacturing.
7.2 MMIC Fabrication
MMIC fabrication employs many of the discrete device processing steps discussed in Chapter 3. However, a production MMIC wafer fabrication facility requires significant capital investment to build a cleanroom facility, equip the facility with the necessary process tools, staff the facility with processing and test personnel, provide for maintenance technicians, and provide the necessary high purity chemicals and gases. Quality-related issues must be addressed from the start. The right production equipment must be carefully selected. Personnel must be properly trained. Statistical process control software must be in place and validated. The following sections cover the required facilities, equipment, processes, process controls, and the procedures by which users interface with the MMIC fabrication facility.
7.2.1 MMIC Facilities
Facilities for the fabrication of monolithic microwave integrated circuits are very similar to any semiconductor fabrication facility with regard to the infrastructure to support the manufacturing. Primary considerations are land, buildings, uninterruptable electrical power, water treatment, waste water treatment, liquid nitrogen storage and distribution, process gases, storage and distribution, and effluent gas treatment. A production facility may require on the order of 10 to 20 acres of land, 500,000 ft2 of buildings and be able to process and dispose of 100 gallons of deionized (DI) water per minute. Cost of the facility exclusive of the land is on the order of $150 to $300 per ft2 and the cost of cleanroom space is on the order of $2,000 to $3,000 per ft2 [2].
An example of a compound semiconductor wafer fabrication facility is shown in Figure 7.1 [3]. This fabrication facility was originally a silicon DRAM facility that previously manufactured integrated circuits on 150-mm silicon wafers. The facility extends to over 310,000 ft2 and has over 100,000 ft2 of cleanroom space. Configured as a compound semiconductor facility, it has over 100 processing tools and has a production capacity of 30,000 wafers per year.


Figure 7.1 Volume MMIC fabrication facility. (© 2003 IEEE. Reprinted, with permission, from [3].)

This facility has a combination of class 100 and class 1000 space. Class 100 means that the air circulating in the room has less than 100 particles that are greater than 5 microns in a cubic foot of air. Class 100 is achieved by filtering the air entering the cleanroom space with special filters called HEPA filters. HEPA is an acronym for high-efficiency particulate air. The class of a cleanroom can be estimated by observing how many filters are in the ceiling. More filters means better filtration and a lower class number. Some portions of cleanrooms such as the photolithography area require class-10 or even class-1 conditions.
Microelectronic cleanrooms are designed to maintain temperature, humidity, particulate levels, static levels, and pressure levels. All of these environmental conditions can directly affect the final yield of the MMICs being produced. Defects may occur at any step in the process so the cleanliness level of the cleanroom must be maintained on a constant basis. Personnel are the major source of particulates in a cleanroom. As a result, personnel working in class 100 or better cleanrooms must wear cleanroom coveralls including caps, boots, face masks, and gloves.
Cleanrooms typically fall into two types of design. The most prevalent cleanrooms are the bay and chase arrangement shown in Figure 7.2 [4]. The bay is the clean area where wafer processing is performed. Clean air is driven through HEPA filters and returned through the chases, return walls, or return ducts. Return air can be routed through a wall return or a raised access floor return. This arrangement accommodates through-the-wall processing equipment designs such that the operator only accesses the process chamber and control console.


Figure 7.2 Bay-and-chase cleanroom configuration. (After: [4].)

The chase is where the pumps, gas lines and tanks, exhaust piping, and other particulate generating equipment are located. Chases have access from outside the cleanroom allowing maintenance personnel to perform services without the need for cleanroom garments. High-quality cleanrooms can easily be identified by inspecting the chases. Figure 7.3 is an example of a well-constructed cleanroom support chase [4]. Most of the leading suppliers of compound semiconductors for T/R modules use the bay and chase design.
The second type of cleanroom approach used in large manufacturing facilities requiring class 100 and better air is the ballroom approach with a flow through floor. This approach typically has a positive plenum ceiling driving air through the entire cleanroom through a raised access floor and to a return level under the floor. Air under the floor is returned back to the plenum above. Support equipment is located in subfloor area sometimes called "subfab" that is non-cleanroom space and accessible to maintenance personnel.
7.2.2 MMIC Fabrication Processes
MMIC fabrication facilities described above are capable of processing wafers through a number of established process flows depending on the type of product being produced. The facility shown in Figure 7.1 provides for a total of five process routes for discrete and MMIC product lines for both low-noise and high-power applications.
MMIC elements include active transistor cells, tantalum nitride (TaN) resistors, silicon nitride (Si3N4) capacitors, and metal film spiral inductors. Interconnects are provided by several metal layers: ohmic metal, gate metal, metal-1, and metal-2. Airbridge and dielectric crossover technologies are used for layer to layer interconnections and plated vias are used for ground connection. MMICs typically require no more than 12 front-side masking layers [3]. A combination of wet-etch and dry-etch techniques are used to optimize throughput and yield.


Figure 7.3 Well-constructed cleanroom chase. (Image courtesy of Hodess Construction Corporation, Attleboro Falls, Massachusetts.)

Figure 7.4 shows a detailed process flow for a GaAs PHEMT process. Wafers, having the desired epitaxial layers, are inserted into the wafer fabrication process. Epi for low-noise amplifiers MMIC is typically different than epi for high-power amplifiers MMIC. The first step is an isolation masking step followed by a combination of etch and ion implantation. The ion implanter is typically in a cleanroom bay by itself.
Ohmic contact is the next major process step consisting of photoresist deposit, bake, expose, and pattern followed by metal deposition. Mask-to-wafer patterning is accomplished by 365-nm I-line steppers, which are capable of linewidths on the order of 0.5 micron. Metal deposition is normally done by electron beam evaporation or sputtering. E-beam evaporation is preferred when performing a lift-off process in which the photoresist is dissolved after metal deposition thereby lifting off the undesired metal. E-beam evaporators and sputtering systems are typically housed in a metallization bay. An alloy process in a RTP system completes this step. In some wafer fabrication processes, the ohmic step precedes the isolation step [5].


Figure 7.4 GaAs PHEMT wafer processing flow diagram.

Wide recess is the next process step that includes electron beam lithography and an etch process. In wide recess steps, a dry plasma etch is used to remove the n+ GaAs cap layer and wet-etch process is used to trim the AlGaAs spacer layer to a desired saturated current target. Advanced epi materials may include an etch stop layer that provides additional process tolerance. Electron beam lithography systems are very sensitive to temperature, humidity, and vibration. As a result, special cleanroom considerations are required and the e-beam lithography tool is almost always in a separate bay.
Gate definition is the next step and is also an e-beam lithography step, define the T-gates using bilayer resist profile. The T-gate is centered within the wide recess, which is already centered within the source and drain. After the T-gate lithography, gate recess is performed followed by Ti-Pt-Au metallization to form the Schottky barrier gate diode [5]. Gate metal is lifted off from the undesired areas. Gate metal is not alloyed.
First-level metal is typically an e-beam evaporation process that is composed of a titanium adhesion metal, a platinum barrier layer and a gold final layer. This layer is an interconnect layer and also serves as the bottom plate of the MIM capacitors. Some processes use gate metal as the first interconnect metal.
Si3N4 is next deposited by PECVD. PECVD and ICP tools are typically in the same cleanroom bay. Tantalum nitride (Ta2N) is used for thin film resistors on MMICs and is deposited in the metallization process bay using a sputtering tool. The Ta2N film is deposited on top of the Si3N4 layer and then patterned by optical lithography and subsequently etched using a Freon-based dry-etch process.
A capacitor mask is next used to mask regions which will become the capacitor dielectric. Other areas are opened to allow contact to the first layer metal. Si3N4 is etched with a reactive ion etch tool using a fluorine chemistry.
Second level metal mask is used to pattern the top plate of the capacitors and to make connection to first level metal. This metallization is typically thick compared to first level metal. E-beam evaporation is the most common method for this step; however, some wafer fabrication facilities have developed selective plating processes to build up the thick metal and minimize the cost of precious metals. This layer may also incorporate air bridges as described in Chapter 3.
Final front side dc/RF testing is the final inspection step prior to the backside processing that is described in detail in Chapter 3. Testing, at the MMIC level and module level, is discussed in Chapter 8.
7.2.3 MMIC Foundry Procedures
It should be evident from the discussion above that MMIC wafer fabrication is an expensive proposition. Some companies that build T/R modules choose to outsource MMIC fabrication. However, they are not relegated to using off-the-shelf MMICs. Instead, they have the option to use open MMIC foundries that provide wafer fabrication services to any customer. MMIC foundries offer standard wafer processes that produce device performance parameters that are guaranteed based on process control monitor (PCM) data. Customers may design their own circuits using electronic design automation (EDA) software that uses process design kits (PDKs) which are provided by the foundry. A PDK is a set of files used within the EDA software to model transistors, passive components, and transmission lines for a given MMIC process flow from a particular foundry. A typical PDK contains:
•Standard cells library;
•Simulation model of transistors (typically a SPICE model);
•Layout information (most commonly in GDSII format1);
•Design rules check (DRC).
The two best-known and most widely used EDA software systems are Keysight Technologies Advanced Design System (ADS) and National Instruments Microwave Office [6, 7].
When the circuit design is complete, layout is performed in ADS software or other layout tools. The circuit design is checked with the DRC provided by the foundry to make sure that the critical dimensions (CDs) are met and the layer to layer alignment tolerances are correct. The design is then considered complete and ready to be sent to the foundry. In the early days of computer-aided design, the circuit layout, consisting of all the masking layers, was outputted on a magnetic tape and the tape was delivered to the foundry or mask making shop. This is how the term "tape out" was born and it represents the completion of a significant task.
Foundries receive the circuit layout files and have mask reticles made in preparation for wafer processing. A reticle is a 5× or 10× image of one of the layers for a particular circuit on a glass plate. This image or reticle is stepped over the wafer in a photographic step and repeat exposure tool. This process reduces the image on the reticle to the actual design dimensions and exposes a specific region on the wafer and then steps to the adjacent region and repeats. This process is repeated for each site on the wafer. When the step and repeat process is completed the wafer is immersed in developer and the circuit pattern is transferred from the glass mask to the wafer and the wafer is ready for subsequent processing as described in the steps above.
Foundries that produce compound semiconductors typically quote 12 to 16 weeks from receiving a design to delivery of finished circuits either in wafer form or diced. Quick turn prototyping may be available depending on the foundry.
7.3 T/R Module Manufacturing
7.3.1 T/R Module Manufacturing Facilities
T/R module manufacturing facilities are significantly different than wafer fabrication facilities. Cleanroom conditions are still necessary but they are class 1000 or class 10,000. Particulates that could destroy MMIC yield are typically not a problem in a T/R module manufacturing facility. Module assembly and test personnel tend to wear smocks rather than full cleanroom garments. T/R module facilities are typically ballroom configurations rather than bay and chase. An example of this configuration is shown in Figure 7.5. A subfab area for support equipment is not normally needed. Key manufacturing tools include:
•Materials handling equipment and database management software;
•Solder die attach system;


Figure 7.5 T/R module assembly cleanroom configuration.

•X-ray inspection system;
•Epoxy dispense system;
•Pick and place system;
•High-speed wire bonding system;
•Automated inspection system;
•Laser or parallel gap welder;
•Automated test set;
•Environmental test laboratory;
•Automated marking and serialization system.
7.3.2 T/R Module Manufacturing Processes
T/R module manufacturing involves assembling all of the components described in Chapter 2 into a common carrier or package that constitutes the T/R module. Figure 7.6 shows the sequential process steps required to assemble chip and wire type T/R modules that are commonly used in AESAs. Initial steps not shown in this process flow include procurement, inspection and kitting of the components making up the T/R module. Other materials that must be available include silver-filled epoxies, solder preforms, gold wire and ribbon, hydrogen getters, absorber, housings, lids, feedthroughs, and solvents for cleaning.


Figure 7.6 T/R module manufacturing process flow diagram.

Solder
High-power amplifiers in particular and other high-power dissipation devices require a low thermal resistance path to the base of the T/R package. Gold/tin (Au/Sn) solder in the eutectic ratio of 80% gold and 20% tin is used to attach these components to a heat spreader (sometimes called a tab). AuSn has a thermal conductivity that is a factor of 5 better than the best silver-filled epoxies. The heat spreaders are made of materials that are expansion matched to the semiconductor being attached. Common materials are copper/tungsten (CuW) and a clad structure of Copper-Molybdenum-Copper (CuMoCu). The thickness of the heat spreaders is adjusted to help minimize the wire bond lengths during a subsequent assembly step. Figure 7.7 is a diagram showing this stack-up.
Since there is significant heat dissipation in these subassemblies, it is imperative that the solder process be near void-free. Vacuum reflow soldering is a process that is frequently used by T/R module manufacturers to minimize voids. The heat spreader, solder preform, and MMIC are placed on a graphite plate and a thin graphite plate is placed on top of the stack. This entire assembly is placed in a vacuum chamber and pumped down. While under vacuum, the graphite plate is heated using a prescribed thermal profile until the solder melt temperature of ~280°C is reached. The temperature is ramped down and the assembly is removed and inspected using an X-ray system.


Figure 7.7 Materials stack-up of a MMIC soldered to a heat spreader that is epoxied to the module housing.

X-Ray
X-ray inspection of the solder process is a critical step that requires an X-ray inspection system. There are a number of companies that make systems that are acceptable for inspection of these subassemblies [8]. The key issues are appropriate X-ray energy and resolution. MMICs may be as small as 3 mm × 3 mm and the required detail detectability is on the order 0.5 micron. Maximum tube voltage should be on the order of 160 kV. Image processing software should permit automatic mapping and calculation of percent of voiding. Figure 7.8 is an example of an X-ray image of a MMIC that has been vacuum reflow soldered to a heat spreader. Dark regions are vias and the light irregular regions are solder voids. E and D points identify vias that were subsequently sectioned to investigate solder fill.


Figure 7.8 X-ray image of a MMIC soldered to a heat spreader showing solder voids.

Serialize Housing
T/R module housings are marked to identify each module that is in process. This is required to track progress of each housing and to insure that steps are not missed in case a housing is removed from the line for inspection or rework. This marking is typically done with a laser marking system. It must be permanent enough to withstand subsequent solvent and plasma cleans. Some T/R module production lines have automated material handling systems that can recognize the markings and route housing to the appropriate machine locations at the beginning of a work period.
Epoxy Dispense
Silver-filled epoxy is used extensively in module assembly. All of the thin-film networks, silicon integrated circuits, discrete components, circulators, and the HPA subassemblies that were soldered to heat spreaders in a previous step are attached with epoxy. This epoxy must meet critical mechanical, electrical, and thermal requirements and must have a reasonable work life to allow it to be dispensed and still be wet enough to accept the components during the pick and place step. Automated work cells are made specifically to dispense epoxy precisely so that the bond line and fillet around each component is consistent on every module that is assembled. Small variations in epoxy thickness can affect the RF performance of T/R modules. This is particularly true for X-band and higher frequency modules.
Pick and Place
After the wet epoxy is dispensed, an automated work cell is used to pick components from waffle packs, Gel Paks, wafers on tape, and other formats and place them in the proper location with placement accuracies of ±5 microns. Multiple collets permit vacuum pickup of a number of components without reprogramming. Z-axis placement can be controlled by a height or to a pressure [9]. Normally, all of the module components are picked and placed into the wet epoxy and cured at the same time in a single cure cycle. Large components like the circulators may need to be placed manually by assembly personnel.
Cure
Materials handling equipment or assembly personnel transfer the housings containing components that have been picked and placed to a belt furnace to cure the epoxy. The belt furnace ramps the assemblies to the recommended epoxy cure temperature. The furnace is programmed to keep the housings in a cure zone at the specified temperature for the specified length of time. Cure temperature and time vary with epoxy formulations. A common cure cycle for a popular silver-filled epoxy is 1 hour at 150°C [10].
Wire Bond
In Chapter 4, we previously introduced the topic of wire bonds and the difference between wedge and ball bonds. In this section, we discuss the manufacturing issues related to wire bonding.
Housing assemblies are cleaned after the epoxy curing process with a solvent clean or in most cases a plasma clean using an oxygen plasma to remove any residue that could interfere with the wire bonding process. This particular clean is critical because the gold wire used in the wire bonding process will not adhere to bond pads that are not clean.
T/R module production facilities use high-speed automatic wire bonders that can be programmed to make all of the wire bonds in a T/R module during one pass through the wire bonder work cell. Wire bonding speeds of five to seven wires per second (wps) are possible and the wire bonding head can rotate to any desired angle so that the housing does not need to be repositioned. T/R modules may require up to 500 wires, but at a rate of 5 wps, it only takes less than 2 minutes to make all of the wire connections.
The standard wire for T/R module assembly is 1-mil-diameter gold wire. When additional current handling capability is needed for instance on the drain voltage pads of HPAs, multiple 1-mil wires are specified. Many times, the MMIC manufacturer will provide wire bonding details for their particular product. Figure 7.9 is an example of the component layout and wire bonding details provided by a MMIC manufacturer and included as part of the device datasheet [11]. In this particular case, five 1-mil wires are recommended for each of the drain voltage pads. The peak current for this HPA is 6A, so each of the 10 wires would need to carry a maximum of 600 mA. The fusing current for 1-mil Au wire is dependent on wire length. If the length is less than 2 mm, the fusing current is greater than 1A, as shown in Figure 7.10 [12].
Two main types of wire bonding techniques are wedge bonding and ball bonding [13]. Both are thermosonic processes that use a combination of temperature and ultrasonic vibration or scrubbing to make the bond. The difference is in how the wire is fed through the bonding capillary and the method used to terminate the bonding process. In ball bonding, the wire is fed straight through the center of the capillary as shown in Figure 7.11. A ball is formed on the end with an electronic spark. The ball is then positioned to make the first wire bond connection and the tool is lifted to make the second bond. When the second bond is made, a clamp closes on the wire and the wire breaks when the capillary lifts. A small portion of wire remains at the capillary tip and the electronic spark forms another ball which is ready for the next wire bond. When the first bond is made, the tool must lift a certain height above the ball bond in order to make the next bond. As a result, there is a minimum loop that is possible with this technique.


Figure 7.9 Wire bonding diagram for an MMIC HPA showing multiple wires on the drain voltage bond pads. (After: [11].)

The other type of bond is a wedge bond as shown in Figure 7.11. Bonding wire is fed through a hole at the bottom of the bonding tool. The tail of the wire extends passed the bonding tool tip a precise amount. A wedge bond is formed by the bonding tool tip pressing the wire in contact with the bond pad during the ultrasonic cycle. Force on the tool makes a wedge deformation in the wire at the point of bonding. The tool lifts, a second wedge bond is made and the wire is terminated by breaking the wire after the second bond. When the clamps are properly set, the wire remaining in the tip of the bonding tool is the correct length to make the first bond for the next wire connection.
Wedge bonding is the preferred method for RF and microwave assemblies because the loop height can be smaller minimizing wire bond inductance and the tool can have deeper access to bond components that may be recessed isolation channels. Bonding wire inductance can have a significant impact on RF performance and must be considered in T/R module design and must be carefully controlled during the manufacturing process.


Figure 7.10 Fusing current for bonding wire as a function of wire length. (After: [12].)



Figure 7.11 Details of wedge and ball bonding. (Images courtesy of CoorsTek Gaiser Products Group, Ventura, California.)

Test
When the wire bonding step is completed, the T/R module is electrically interconnected as designed and electrical tests are possible. A temporary lid is held in place and initial dc and RF tests are made on the module. Modules not passing this initial test are pulled from the line and routed to either rework or scrapped. Testing is described in detail in Chapter 8.
Seal
T/R modules for AESA applications are designed to be hermetic and require a metal lid that is weld to the housing ring frame. Lids are typically made of kovar which is a nickel-cobalt-iron alloy that has been used in the microwave tube industry many years due to its thermal expansion match to glass. Lids are attached to the housing ring frame using a laser seam sealing process or a parallel gap welding process.
Mark Lid
After the T/R modules are sealed, the lids are laser marked with the part number, lot number, and date code at a minimum. Other markings which may include static precautions may also be included. Module manufacturing facilities carefully track the components used for each module and maintain a database that allows them to identify the wafer lot number, wafer number, and die location on the wafer of the MMIC in a specific module. This is particularly important to support failure analysis of module failures in fielded systems.
Environmental Test
Environmental tests are then performed based on the T/R module requirements specifications. Temperature cycle and acceleration tests are typically performed as defined by MIL-STD-810G.
Burn-In
Burn-in is a process in which the modules are energized and either operated under dc bias conditions or operated with RF drive like they would be used in an active array. This process can be expensive due to the infrastructure and labor associated with doing these tests [14]. However, on new module builds, RF operational burn-in and extended testing for up to 1,000 hours can identify latent failure mechanisms or add confidence that the T/R modules are robust and perform as intended.
Final Electrical Test
Final electrical test is performed to make sure the T/R modules still meet their lot average specifications after the environmental and burn-in tests. This test is performed even if the burn-in test was not performed.
Leak Test
Fine and gross leak testing is done to assure that the modules are still hermetic after the environmental tests.
Final Inspection
As a last process step, a final visual inspection is performed and the modules are ready for packing, shipping and/or installation in the next higher level assembly of an AESA or communications antenna.
7.4 Conclusions
This chapter focused on both MMIC fabrication and T/R module manufacturing. T/R module manufacturing is strongly influenced by the MMICs that make up a large percentage of the cost of the modules and are the predominant contributor to their performance. T/R module manufacturing processes must be highly automated and well controlled. Manufacturing facilities must be able to adapt to evolving T/R module designs as modules move from single channels, twin packs and on to multiple channel assemblies. Manufacturing operations must be able to accommodate advances in semiconductor component technologies that include bare die and packaged components. T/R module manufacturing builds on fundamental processes and leverages lessons learned from past module production. T/R module manufacturing is relatively low risk after initial development and pilot lot builds.
Problems
7.1What type of cleanroom do most compound semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities use? What level of air quality is required for wafer fabrication? What does class 100 mean?
7.2What is a chase? Why is it important?
7.3What is a eutectic?
7.4Calculate the inductance of a 1-mil gold wire having a loop height of 5 mils if it is 100 mils long. (Hint: see Chapter 4.)
7.5What three properties does a silver-filled epoxy need to satisfy?
References
[1]http://www.sldinfo.com/the-tr-module-production-base-for-the-f35-lightning-iis-radar/.
[2]Section 6, "Cost Modeling," Integrated Circuit Engineering Corp. Smithsonian, The Chip Collection.
[3]O'Keefe, M., et al., "GaAs pHEMT-Based Technology for Microwave Applications in a Volume MMIC Production Environment on 150-mm Wafers," IEEE Trans. on Semiconductor Mfg., Vol. 16, No. 3, August 2003, pp. 376-383.
[4]Hodess Construction Corporation, http://www.hodess.com/.
[5]Nayak, S., et al., "0.15 μm Power pHEMT Manufacturing Technology for Ka- and Q-Band MMIC Power Amplifiers," 2005 CS Mantech Technical Digest, 2005.
[6] http://www.keysight.com/en/pc-1297113/advanced-design-system-ads?cc=US&lc=eng.
[7] http://www.awrcorp.com/products/microwave-office.
[8] http://www.ge-mcs.com/download/x-ray/GEIT_31345%20phoenix%20xaminer_EN_09_14.pdf.
[9]MRSI-705 Advanced Packaging Work Cell Brochure.
[10]Henkel Ablebond 84-1LM1 datasheet.
[11]M/A Com MAAPGM0079-DIE datasheet.
[12]Heraeus, "Bonding Wires for Semiconductor Technology" brochure, 2012.
[13]CoorsTek Inc., Gaiser Products Group, Capillary and Wedge Bonding Application Notes. http://www.coorstek.com/resource-library/8510-1485_Gaiser_Capillaries_Pages_60-76.pdf.
[14]Roper, S., "New T/R Module Burn-In Method," AUTOTESTCON '94, IEEE Systems Readiness Technology Conference Proceedings, 1994, pp. 673-679.

1.GDSII is the semiconductor industry standard file format used to control integrated circuit photomask plotting.







8
Testing of MMICs and T/R Modules
8.1 Introduction to Testing
Engineers and managers working on active electronically scanned antenna programs will undoubtedly be involved in discussions related to testing of MMICs and T/R modules. T/R module manufacturing is driven by automated pick and place of many components as described in Chapters 2 and 7. A significant number of value-added steps can be completed in a short time and it is imperative that known good devices are being presented to the manufacturing line for assembly. Traceability is essential for maintaining quality in the wafer fabrication process and in T/R module manufacturing. Complete records for incoming materials and components that cover all processes through fabrication, assembly and testing allow identification and traceability in the event of quality problems that may occur during processing of wafers, during testing of T/R modules or during initial testing on fully assembled AESAs. This chapter focuses on testing of MMICs, which constitute a large percentage of the cost of materials for T/R modules, and testing of T/R modules after assembly.
8.2 MMIC Testing
8.2.1 Incoming Materials Testing
Wafer processing is expensive and time consuming so it is vital that the materials being used are inspected and certified as meeting the established requirements. As a result, all compound semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities have some level of analytical laboratory where incoming materials are certified for use in the fabrication line. Materials which are certified include:
•Wafers;
•Deionized water;
•Chemicals;
•Gases;
•Precious metals;
•Any other items entering the wafer fabrication cleanroom.
Epi ready wafers are the most expensive and most critical materials used in compound semiconductor fabrication. Nondestructive methods are required to verify that the wafers have the precise layer concentration and thickness.
Exact determination of epitaxial layer thickness and composition is critical to MMIC fabrication. RF performance is critically influenced by thickness and composition variation in the bandgap-engineered channel layer and these parameters must be controlled and monitored to a high degree of precision prior to any wafer processing. A sensitive wafer characterization technique that is accurate and fast is highly desirable for complete wafer evaluation. High-resolution X-ray diffraction (HRXRD) is an ideal method for evaluating quantum wells and heterostructures. However, HRXRD assessment of thin epi layers requires signal integration times of several hours. Room-temperature photoluminescence (RTPL) provides a quick and qualitative evaluation scheme and is particularly well suited for thin epi layer heterostructures. Researchers have combined these two techniques resulting in an accurate and rapid scheme for evaluation of AlGaAs/InGaAs/AlGaAs PHEMT structures [1]. Accuracy in measuring the indium mole fraction and channel thickness are ±0.25% and ±3-4Å, respectively.
Commercial nondestructive wafer-testing systems are available that permit rapid characterization of GaAs and GaN epi layers [2]. These systems are based on the interaction of microwave energy and magnetic fields with multilayer wafer structures to provide measurements of electron mobility, conductivity, and sheet charge density for cap layers and the channel layers. Figure 8.1 is an example of a sheet resistivity wafer map for a GaN epi layer on SiC [3].
Wafers with excessive surface defects must not find their way into the wafer fabrication line. Epi hillocks, described in Chapter 3, have been found to cause failures in MIM capacitors. Automated optical inspection (AOI) tools are used for in-coming qualification tests. Optical inspection systems for SiC substrates and GaN epi provide full-surface, high-sensitivity defect inspection and accurate process feedback [4]. These systems allow the epi wafer suppliers to improve SiC substrate quality as well as optimize the epitaxial growth yields.


Figure 8.1 Sheet resistivity map of a GaN on SiC epi layer. (© 2004, Journal of Crystal Growth, reprinted with permission from D. Grider, author, from [3].)

AOI systems reduce the time-to-root cause for failure by integrating surface defect detection and photoluminescence technology in one inspection platform. AOI tools provide high-sensitivity defect inspection including effective separation of front-surface defects such as nanometer-scale scratches and stacking faults on transparent substrate and epitaxial material. Photoluminescence detection capability captures yield-critical defects including basal plane dislocations and all stacking faults. These systems have the ability to classify critical yield-limiting defects such as stacking faults, dislocations, carrots, triangles, and submicron pits.
8.2.2 In-Process Testing
MMIC wafers are tested in-process in a cleanroom environment on automated probe stations at two processing steps. Wafers are tested just after FET gate fabrication, which is the first opportunity to probe devices that do not require air bridges. Process control monitor (PCM) sites are probed at this stage. PCMs are die sites that have discrete components and special test structures to verify that the process is in control. A classic example of a diagnostic structure for process control is presented by Immorlica, Decker, and Hill [5]. There are typically five to nine PCM sites on a 4-inch wafer. PCM tests typically include:
•Thin-film resistors: TLM measurements to extract sheet and contact resistance;
•Capacitors: Capacitance measurements, IV sweeps to extract breakdown voltage and estimate use-voltage lifetime;
•Epitaxial material: TLM measurements to extract sheet and contact resistance;
•FETs:
•Transfer curve: Threshold voltage, peak transconductance, maximum drain current, leakage currents;
•Output characteristics: Device on-resistance, knee voltage;
•Forward-gate bias turn-on voltage;
•Gate-drain two-terminal and three-terminal breakdown voltage.
Wafers are then tested again at the end of front-side processing when devices that require air bridges and passive elements can be tested. On-wafer automated testing includes both dc and RF measurements.
8.2.3 On-Wafer RF Testing
On-wafer RF testing was developed on the MIMIC program described in Chapter 3 and was a critical innovation that facilitated T/R module manufacturing by making available known good RF MMICs prior to packaging. Coplanar waveguide probes, shown in Figure 8.2, were the major development that permitted specially designed circuits that had ground connections on each side of the signal line (G-S-G) to be measured at RF frequencies before dicing the wafer [6]. Prior to this invention, there was no way to assure that bare die MMICs were good prior to assembling into a package.
An equally important area that is sometimes overlooked is the dc probe card that is required to bias the MMICs to the proper bias voltages and currents. These probe cards contain dc needles that contact pads on the MMIC and also have bypass capacitors mounted between the needle probes to prevent bias circuit oscillations. High-gain amplifiers are very susceptible to bias circuit oscillations and the dc bypass capacitors mounted on the probe tips very close to where contact is made to the MMIC are essential to the on-wafer probing process. Figure 8.3 is an example of a probe card that contains both RF and dc probes and is an example of how complex this process can be [7].
During final testing, devices that passed dc tests are probed for RF performance. RF tests may include:
•S-parameter measurement:
•Ft;
•Fmax;


Figure 8.2 Coplanar waveguide probe used for on-wafer testing. (Image courtesy of Cascade Microtech, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon.)



Figure 8.3 On-wafer probing test card containing dc needle probes and coplanar RF probes. (Image courtesy of GGB Industries, Inc., Naples, Florida.)

•Maximum stable gain (MSG);
•Pulsed IV to measure current collapse or dc-RF dispersion;
•Gain compression sweep;
•Linear and compressed gain;
•Maximum output power;
•Maximum power-added efficiency;
•Noise figure;
•TOI (calculation).
On-wafer RF tests are typically limited to short-pulse conditions due to thermal constraints.
8.2.4 MMIC Screening Tests
Power amplifier MMICs have large-area MIM capacitors and hundreds of submicron gate fingers. These features are susceptible to manufacturing defects that may not be detected during standard parametric testing. In order to insure robustness, special electrical screens are sometimes performed. These special tests include screening for gate shorts and screening for dielectric defects.
Patterning of submicron features, required for high-frequency performance, can be problematic and can result in flaws that cause microscopic short-circuit regions. Figure 8.4 is an SEM micrograph of a metal filament between gate and the corner of ohmic metal forming the drain or source of the FET [8]. Filaments can be burned away during parametric testing, making it difficult to detect electrically and they are not detectable at visual inspection because of their small size.


Figure 8.4 SEM micrograph of a gate to source short circuit on a MMIC device. (© 2007 CS Mantech. Reprinted, with permission, from [8].)

Specific screens, at die sort, can weed out defective devices. The gate can be biased in the forward direction to a voltage low enough not to burn away the filaments and too low to turn on the Schottky diode. Under these conditions, a leakage current can be measured and devices exceeding a limit are considered failures. Typical values for a short-free device are 1 pA/μm at a 1-V bias and 6 pA/μm at a 3-V bias. If shorts are present, current levels are above 5 μA/μm of gate periphery [8]. Many times, these screening tests are so effective that they are adopted as standard protocol.
Figure 8.5 is an example of a single-stage MMIC power amplifier. The large metal areas of circuitry are MIM capacitors. These capacitors are fabricated by metal and dielectric deposition on top of the compound semiconductor epi layers. Surface imperfections, discussed in Chapter 3, can cause defects in the MIM layers such that the capacitor breakdown is compromised. Special voltage ramp screening tests have been implemented to detect weak devices [9].
8.2.5 MMIC Reliability Testing
MMICs are fabricated using compound semiconductor materials described in Chapter 3. Schottky barrier FET processes are mature and process reliability has been established by all of the MMIC foundries. It is not unreasonable to expect very few MMIC failures in the lifetime of a system. However, in large ground-based AESAs, there may be over 25,000 T/R modules each having five to six MMICs. So the antenna front-end may have on the order of 150,000 MMICs. As a result, it is important to understand the predicted failure rate.
To acquire MMIC reliability data in a reasonable amount of time, it is common to use accelerated life tests at elevated temperatures as described previously in Chapter 6. By exposing devices to elevated temperatures, it is possible to reduce the time to failure of a component assuming that the failure mechanisms are thermally driven and most are.


Figure 8.5 Micrograph of a GaN MMIC showing the large-area MIM capacitors.

Reported data from accelerated operating life tests shows that GaAs PHEMT and GaN on SiC HEMT processes provide device mean time between failure (MTBF) rates of over 1 × 106 hours at channel temperatures of 175°C or less [10]. Figure 8.6 is an Arrhenius plot showing the activation energy of GaAs MESFET, GaAs PHEMT and GaN HEMT devices. Symbols on the plot represent the accelerated test temperatures and the time associated with each symbol is when half the test population failed. Activation energies range from 1.2 to 1.6 eV.
8.3 T/R Module Specifications
T/R modules, for defense radars, are considered critical items because:
•Technical complexity of a T/R module warrants an individual specification.
•Reliability of a T/R module significantly affects the ability of the radar to perform its overall function.
•Antenna hardware cannot be adequately evaluated without separate evaluation and application suitability testing of the T/R module.


Figure 8.6 Arrhenius plot of the results of accelerated life testing on various compound semiconductor processes that are being used for components in AESAs. (After: [10].)

As a result, there is a specification protocol that must be followed for critical items intended for use on Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPs). MIL- STD-490A describes the specification requirements for critical items in a type B2 Critical Item Development Specification [11]. B2 specifications cover the following sections and paragraphs:
Section 1. Scope.
Section 2. Applicable documents.
Section 3. Requirements.
3.1. Critical item definition
3.2. Characteristics
3.2.1. Performance
3.2.2. Physical characteristics
3.2.3. Reliability
3.2.4. Maintainability
3.2.5. Environmental conditions
3.2.6. Transportability
3.3. Design and construction
3.3.1. Materials, processes, and parts
3.3.2. Electromagnetic radiation
3.3.3. Nameplates and product marking
3.3.4. Workmanship
3.3.5. Interchangeability
3.3.6. Safety
3.3.7. Human performance/human engineering
3.4. Documentation
3.5. Logistics
3.5.1. Maintenance
3.5.2. Supply
3.6. Precedence
Section 4. Quality Assurance provisions
Section 5. Preparation for delivery
Section 6. Notes
T/R modules for communications systems may not have the rigorous specification requirements described above; however, detailed design drawings, documentation, and extensive electrical, mechanical, and environmental characterization are required.
8.4 T/R Module Testing
Development of AESAs based on T/R modules at every antenna element has changed the way radars must be tested and calibrated. With tube-based radars, verification of one or a few traveling-wave tubes (TWTs) was sufficient to verify performance of the transmitter. For AESAs that depend on spatial power combining, the most critical radar system measurements are phase and amplitude uniformity of T/R modules.
T/R modules are composed of digitally controlled microwave switches, phase shifters, variable gain amplifiers, and other components that may have multiple operating states. Every control state of every module must be tested and verified to be within prescribed limits. Accuracy to within a few tenths of a decibel and a few degrees of phase is required when measuring multiple states in each module [12].
8.4.1 Key Electrical Parameters
Key electrical parameters for T/R modules are shown in Table 8.1 [13]. Other parameters may be necessary to fully specify performance for some specific applications. These parameters are normally specified in section 3, paragraph 3.2.1 of the B2 specification described above. During early module development, all of these parameters are typically tested on every module for every phase and attenuation setting. In production, a limited set of parameters may be sufficient to characterize the module for acceptance once lot average bounds are set and a statistically significant number of T/R modules have been measured.
Transmit Mode
Table 8.1 lists the many transmit parameters that are made on T/R modules. S-parameters are typically small signal measurements that characterize the T/R module as a "black box." Input and output return loss and transmit gain are among the parameters that are obtained during this measurement. These can be done in both CW and pulsed conditions if provisions are made to manage the heat dissipation. Since modules are designed to operate in a saturated mode during transmit, measurement at the normal input drive level is typically preferred. Large signal T/R module parameters can be measured using an X-parameter test set.
X-parameters are a mathematical superset of S-parameters and are used for characterizing the amplitudes and relative phase of harmonics generated by nonlinear components under large input power levels. X-parameters are a fully nonlinear framework that provides both magnitude and phase of the fundamental and harmonics. They can be cascaded in simulation and produce the correct behavior in mismatched environments. X-parameters are based on the polyharmonic distortion modeling work by researchers at Keysight Technologies [14]. X-parameters may be measured using a Nonlinear Vector Network Analyzer (NVNA) system.

Table 8.1
Key Electrical Parameter for T/R Modules

Electrical Test Plan for T/R Modules


Transmit
Receive

S-parameters (pulsed)
S-parameters (CW)

Phase setting
Phase setting

Amplitude setting
Amplitude setting

Pout versus Pin
Pout versus Pin

Power-added efficiency (PAE)
Third-order intercept (TOI)

Total absorbed power
Total absorbed power

Harmonics
Noise figure

Spurious


Pulse profile


Amplitude and phase


Droop across pulse



Source: [13].

VSWR
T/R modules are normally designed to have an input and output impedance of 50Ω. VSWR is a measure of how well the module is matched to 50Ω. Most T/R modules are specified to have an input and output VSWR of better than 2.0:1.
Input Drive Level
T/R modules are designed to operate in saturation on transmit. As a result, there is a range of input drive level over which the T/R module will deliver the minimum required output. A normal level for input drive is 5 dBm ± 1 dB at any temperature and frequency within the operating range.
Peak Output Power
Peak output power is a lot-average specification at a given frequency and temperature when driven at the specified input drive level when the T/R module is connected to a matched load having a VSWR of 2.0:1 or better.
Power-Added Efficiency (PAE)
Overall or average PAE of a T/R module is the RF output power per unit of time divided by the dc power consumed per unit of time. This can be expressed by the equation

where Pout is the RF output power during transmit, DC is the duty cycle in percent, PdcTx is the dc power consumption during transmit, and PdcRx is the dc power consumption during receive.
From this equation, it is obvious that as the duty cycle decreases, the overall PAE also decreases as a result of the power consumption during receive. This behavior is confirmed by Daimler-Benz Aerospace [15]. Figure 8.7 shows the overall PAE behavior of an 8-W GaAs MESFET-based T/R module as a function of duty cycle. PAE of the transmit amplifier is assumed to be 40%. Overall, PAE rolls off considerably under 10% duty cycle.
Duty Cycle
Duty cycle specifies the percentage of time that the T/R module can operate in transmit mode during a period of time. Typical percentage range for duty cycle is from 5% to 25% primarily limited by thermal and operational constraints.


Figure 8.7 Overall PAE behavior of an X-band T/R module as a function of duty cycle. (After: [15].)

Pulse Droop
Pulse droop is a measure of the decrease in output power from the beginning of the pulse to the end of the pulse. Droop is caused by thermal characteristics and energy storage properties associated with the prime power electronics including the capacitors in the T/R modules. Maximum pulse droop is typically specified to be <0.5 dB. Pulse droop can be measured with a peak power analyzer [16]. Figure 8.8 shows an example of this type of measurement made on a 20-W GaN-based power amplifier directly mounted to a cold plate held at 20°C by a recirculating chiller. Little power droop is present in this example due to the short pulse width and low duty cycle.
Transmit Rise and Fall Time
Transmit rise and fall time is a measure of how fast the T/R module can switch from the off state to the transmit state and how fast it can turn off upon application and removal of the RF signal respectively. Amplifier stages are biased to the quiescent point a few microseconds prior to the RF pulse application. Rise and fall times are measured between the 10% and 90% points and are typically less than 50 ns.
Phase Error
Phase error is the difference in the measured phase of a module to the intended phase setting of the phase shifter. This parameter is measured as a function of frequency and temperature at a fixed attenuator setting. Worst case phase error is dependent on the number of bits of phase control but is typically better than 5°.


Figure 8.8 RF output power pulse of a 20-W GaN-based power amplifier demonstrating pulse droop.

RMS Amplitude Error
RMS amplitude error is the difference in the measured amplitude of a module to the average amplitude of the phase states at each operating frequency point. Ideally the amplitude for any given phase setting would be the same. The insertion loss of a phase shifter is typically on the order of −6 dB or so. Measurements at a given phase setting vary around this nominal value. Reasonable RMS amplitude error is on the order of 0.5 dB [17].
Module-to-Module Phase Tracking
Module insertion phase is normalized during calibration at the array level. Module-to-module phase tracking is a measure of the variation in insertion phase after any module normalization is done. Worst case deviation from the mean value is typically less than 10°.
Module-to-Module Amplitude Tracking
Module-to-module amplitude tracking is a measure of how well the amplitudes of a population of modules track. This parameter is strongly dependent on the gain of amplifiers in the transmit chain and how much tuning is done during assembly. On established module assembly lines producing mature modules, amplitude tracking tends to be better than 1.5 dB at any frequency with the operating bandwidth.
Spurious Signals and Harmonics
In and out of band spurious signals must not interfere with normal operation of the T/R modules and the harmonics of the fundamental signal must be controlled. Acceptable levels depend on the application but are in the range of <−60 to −75 dBc for spurious signals and <−35 dBc for the second harmonic signal.
DC Consumption
Peak dc consumption is a parameter that influences the system prime power requirement and power distribution design. It is a strong function of the HPAs used in the module and as a result there is no typical value for this parameter. However, this parameter is one of the most important parameters that drives system design.
Receive Mode
Noise Figure
Noise figure of a T/R module was discussed in Chapter 2 and is primarily determined by the LNA noise figure and its associated gain. The higher the gain of the LNA, the less subsequent stages affect NF. A noise figure of 3 dB is representative of state-of the art X-band T/R modules.
Gain
Receive gain is a measure of gain of the amplification stages on the receive path less the losses associated with the limiter, interconnects, T/R switches and CLC. Receive gain of 25 to 30 dB is not uncommon.
Gain Compression
Receive gain compression is typically measured at the output of the receiver and is measured at the 1-dB compression point.
Third-Order Intercept
Third-order intercept is calculated from the 1-dB compression point and a measure of the third harmonic as described in Chapter 2.
Maximum Receive Signal Level
The maximum receive signal level is the signal level that the module must be able to handle and survive with no permanent damage when the signal is removed. This depends on the limiter used in the T/R module design. Most T/R module designs are made to handle at a minimum the transmit power level of the module.
Module-to-module phase and amplitude receive tracking and sensitivity to temperature and voltage are parameters that are also measured during module development.
8.4.2 Example of Key Parameter Requirements on an X-Band T/R Module
Table 8.2 shows the performance requirements of an X-band T/R module [15]. These modules were designed and built for a synthetic aperture radar (SAR) application. Light weight and low prime power were key drivers. This example is one of a few that provide design requirements and support them with measured results. Receive gain was 30 dB across the band and the noise figure was better than 2.5 dB.

Table 8.2
Performance Requirements of an X-Band T/R Module for a SAR

Parameter
Requirement

Output power level
+39 dBm (7.9W)

PAE
>22% (25% goal)

Noise figure
<2.5 dB

RX gain
30 dB

Phase setting range
0° to 360°

Phase stability versus frequency and temperature
±6°

RX gain setting range
0 to −15 dB

RX gain stability versus frequency and temperature
±0.25 dB

Size (L × W × H)
65 × 80 × 10 mm3

Weight
<70g


Source: [15].

8.4.3 Automated Electrical Test Set
Automated Test Equipment (ATE) is essential for making the measurements described above. In addition to individual T/R module testing, system testing and calibration of thousands of T/R modules are required. Testing of this magnitude is well beyond what traditional discrete test equipment can perform in a reasonable amount of time. A highly automated test system is required that can reduce test time of T/R modules from hours to minutes or even less.
ATE systems can be configured to make on the order of 25,000 measurements on a typical T/R module in less than 4 minutes and can make the typical 2,500 key measurements required in production in less than 15 seconds per module [12]. Standard systems cover frequencies from 1 Hz to 24 GHz and can measure S-parameters for all phase attenuation combinations, noise factor, RF output power, intermodulation distortion, and spurious emissions. Two modules can be tested at the same time with a single system, or up to eight T/R modules can be tested in parallel [12].
T/R module ATE consists of only three major components to provide all measurements, including module control and power supply:
•A vector network analyzer for RF measurements;
•A control platform for RF signal switching and conditioning;
•A test platform for T/R module control and supply.
Source code for test cases is normally included with these systems, but custom code is usually necessary for tests on specific modules. Additional components are required in most cases especially if the T/R module output power is over ~10W.
In order to take advantage of the speed at which T/R modules can be measured, it is essential that the connections to the modules be made with probe-like contacts or fixturing rather than screw-on coaxial connectors. As a result, microstrip feed-thrus, as shown in Figure 8.9, are used on high-volume production modules to facilitate high throughput during module testing [18].
8.5 Conclusions
MMIC and T/R module testing are essential steps that must be accomplished in order to ensure acceptable performance of AESAs. Proper testing and screening can eliminate defective MMICs and modules at early stages of production minimizing rework costs and field failures. Incoming materials inspection is particularly important in the MMIC fabrication process. On-wafer RF testing makes it possible to have known RF good MMICs available for the production of T/R modules. ATE permits T/R modules to be tested in minutes rather than hours and makes it easier to align and calibrate modules at the array level.
Problems
8.1Calculate the activation energy of a process if 50% of a test population failed after 2,000 hours at 260°C and 700 hours at 300°C.


Figure 8.9 Microstrip feed-thru for a T/R module to permit rapid setup and testing. (Image courtesy of Adtech Ceramics Company, Chattanooga, Tennessee.)

8.2The overall PAE of a T/R module having an output power of 39 dBm is 25% at a duty cycle of 20%. What is the dissipated power during the receive portion of the cycle?
8.3What is on-wafer testing? Describe how it is accomplished and why it is important.
8.4What feature is incorporated on a probe card on the dc needle probes? What is its purpose?
8.5What major components are required for an ATE system to test T/R modules?
References
[1]Torabi, A., et al., "High Resolution X-ray Diffraction and Photoluminescence Correlation as an Accurate and Nondestructive Evaluation Technique for PHEMT Structures," International Centre for Diffraction Data 2000, Advances in X-Ray Analysis, Vol. 42, 2000, pp. 623-628.
[2]Leighton Electronics, Model 1600 series datasheet.
[3]Gibb, S., et al., "Commercialization of GaN Based Field Effect Transistors," ICMOVPE XII, Journal of Crystal Growth, Vol. 272, Issues 1-4, Dec. 2004, pp. 285-292.
[4]KLA Tencor Candela CS920 specification sheet, http://www.Kla-tencor.com/Compound-Semiconductor-Manufacturing/Candela-es920.html, 2015.
[5]Immorlica, A., R. Decker, and W. Hill, "A Diagnostic Pattern for GaAs FET Material Development and Process Monitoring," IEEE Trans. on Electron Devices, Vol. ED-27, No. 12, December 1980, pp. 2285-2291.
[6]Cascade Microtech Probe Selection Guide. Published 04/01/2009, updated August 3, 2015.
[7]GGB Industries Picoprobe Brochure. Published 2014, updated 2015, Naples, FL.
[8]Saeger, T., et al., "Gate Shorts: A Process Engineer's Nightmare," CS Mantech Conference, May 14-17, 2007, Austin, TX, pp. 279-281.
[9]Rosenbaum, E., J. King, and C. Hu, "Accelerated Testing of SiO2 Reliability," IEEE Trans. Electron Devices, Vol. 43, No. 1 January 1996, pp. 70-79.
[10]Pengelly, R., "GaN HEMT Technical Status: Transistors and MMICs for Military and Commercial Systems," 2009 International Microwave Symposium Workshop WMF, Boston, MA, June 2009.
[11]Military Standard 490A, "Specification Practices," Section 3.1.2.2.2, Headquarters, Air Force Systems Command, Andrews Air Force Base, Washington, DC, June 1985.
[12]McCarthy, D., "Challenges and Solutions for Testing AESA Radar T/R Modules," http://www.rfglobalnet.com/doc/challenges-and-solutions-for-testing-aesa-radar-t-r-modules-0001, August 2013.
[13]Aeroflex 5100 T/R Module Test Environment Brochure.
[14]Verspecht, J., and D. Root, "Polyharmonic Distortion Modeling," IEEE Microwave Magazine, Vol. 7, Issue 3, June 2006, pp. 44-57.
[15]Schaeffner, R., G. Eckert, and T. Neutzel, "Design and Technology of T/R Modules for Phased Array Radar Applications," GaAs 98 Symposium Digest, Amsterdam, 1998, pp. 68-72.
[16]Boonton 4500B Peak Power Meter Brochure.
[17]http://www.microwaves101.com/encyclopedias/phase-shifter-rms-amplitude-error.
[18]AdTech Ceramics Technical Information, http://www.adtechceramics.com/ceramic-feedthroughs.html.







9
MMIC and T/R Module Cost
9.1 Introduction
Cost of T/R modules is a driving factor in the overall cost of an AESA. Once T/R module performance is verified and module reliability is proven, the focus quickly turns to cost reduction. Estimates vary, but most cost models attribute 50% to 75% of the cost of an AESA to the antenna and within the antenna, one-half the cost is associated with T/R modules [1, 2]. Figure 9.1 is a chart showing this cost breakdown.
Ground-based and shipboard AESAs can have a sell price of approximately $175 million per array face [3]. Based on the percentage allocations above, the sell price of the T/R modules can be on the order of $44 million to $65 million per array face. This range can be even wider depending upon the complexity of the module, output power, and operating frequency. Ground-based arrays can have on the order of 25,000 elements each having an associated T/R module [4]. Based on these estimates, individual T/R modules can have a sell price on the order of $1,760 to $2,600 each. The cost and sell price of a T/R module are different. The sell price includes the cost for the manufacturer to make the T/R module plus some margin based on a percentage of the sell price.
This chapter focuses on cost modeling and cost factors associated with T/R modules. Since the MMICs account for one-half the cost of the T/R modules, they are addressed separately at the beginning of the chapter.


Figure 9.1 Cost breakdown of an AESA radar and antenna equipment. (After: [1, 2].)

9.2 MMIC Cost
9.2.1 MMIC Wafer Fabrication Cost
There is a cost associated with MMICs that is independent of yield. This is the cost of processing a wafer through a fabrication facility. It includes the starting wafer material cost, the labor and related materials cost associated with processing, amortization cost of the facility, and cost to maintain the facility. Cost per fabricated wafer is typically computed using the cost of equipment depreciation, cost of direct labor, maintenance and materials, cost of energy, and other facilities as well as building depreciation costs [5].
Figure 9.2 shows the factors that make up the cost per fabricated wafer [5]. Percentages associated with each cost factor are from the silicon industry data but to a first order are applicable to MMIC fabrication.
Manufacturing cost is all of the costs directly allocated to production and less depreciation. It constitutes ~54% of the cost of a fabricated MMIC wafer and includes the direct labor and nonlabor cost of manufacturing. Labor cost is approximately 11% of the total cost per fabricated wafer. The nonlabor cost includes the cost of consumables, spare parts, materials (including cleanroom garments, wipes, face masks, and tweezers), production control, and facilities (power, deionized water systems, and gas scrubbers) and is 43% of the fabricated wafer cost. Other costs factors are selling, general and administrative expenses, research and development costs, and depreciation expenses.


Figure 9.2 Cost factors associated with fabricating a MMIC wafer. (After: [5].)

MMIC manufacturing facilities and equipment were described in Chapter 7. Costs associated with building, equipping, operating, and maintaining a wafer fabrication facility dictate that the facility operates as close as possible to capacity. This means that it should be fully loaded and operating three shifts per day. Factory loading affects both product cost and cycle time. The closer the factory as a whole runs to its capacity, the lower product costs will be. In addition to running at capacity, the MMIC fabrication facility needs to have optimized processes that result in very high yields.
9.2.2 Wafer Fabrication Process Yield
Since there is a significant fixed cost associated with processing a wafer through the MMIC manufacturing facility, it is critical that the yield of good products, coming off the line, be high enough to justify the cost. Device yield is made up of four factors that include line yield, dc yield, RF yield, and visual yield. Device yield is the product of these factors and is given by

Line yield is the number of wafers that finish the wafer process divided by the number of wafers that were started. For example, if 10 wafers start the process as a wafer lot and eight finish the process, the line yield is 80%. Line yield is most affected by breakage and handling issues.
Typical line yield is 75% to 90% on well-established high-throughput wafer processing lines.
DC yield is defined as the number of MMICs on the wafer passing dc tests divided by the number of possible die/wafer. DC tests are typically done prior to any backside processing.
RF yield is the percentage of RF good devices to the total number of dc good chips/wafer. For MMICs, RF yield between 50% and 80% is typical, but is strongly dependent on die size and chip complexity.
Visual yield is the number of visually good chips from all of the RF good chips on a wafer. Wafers are inspected under a microscope to determine if any chips have visual anomalies. MIL-STD-883 Test method 2010.10 (Monolithic) is typically used as the acceptance criteria.
Possible number of die per wafer is a function of the size of the device design that is being fabricated and the diameter of the wafer. Mask sets are typically designed to exclude devices that do not fit fully on the wafer as shown in Figure 9.3. An equation for estimating possible number of die per wafer is given by:

where d is the wafer diameter in millimeters and S is the die size in mm2.
Calculators to estimate possible die per wafer are available online [6]. Some of these calculators also predict yield based on a user entered defect density in number of defects per cm2 [7].


Figure 9.3 Mask design illustrating the number of possible good die per wafer.

MMICs are separated by spaces for dicing and that area is not available. The area located at the edge of the wafer cannot be used so the above calculation is at best an estimate. An additional area is used for PCMs and is not available for a possible die site, so the possible number of die per is best determined by counting when layout is completed.
To illustrate the process of determining yield and in predicting how many wafers may be needed to provide MMICs for T/R modules, we refer to Figure 9.3. In this example, we can simply count the number of possible MMICs per wafer. In this case, that number is 69. If we assume that the dc bad devices are marked with a dot, the number of dc good devices is 44, so the dc yield is 44/69 or 63.8%. Assuming that the line, RF, and visual yields are 100%, the overall MMIC yield is 63.8%, and we have 44 known RF good MMICs available for pick and place into T/R modules.
MMICs tend to have regions that require sub-half-micron features. As a result, defects associated with photolithography and electron beam lithography processes tend to limit yield. Foreign materials remaining on the wafers after cleaning operations are also a factor. MMIC power amplifiers designed for T/R modules may be on the order of 24 mm2. Overall yields in the range of 60% to 70% are considered realistic for mature processes that are well controlled.
9.2.3 Wafer Diameter Impact on MMIC Cost
GaAs and GaN MMICs may be fabricated on 3-inch, 4-inch, or 6-inch diameter wafers. If a facility is equipped to handle 6-inch wafers, the labor cost to process 6-inch wafers is virtually the same as processing 3-inch or 4-inch wafers. Starting material cost will be higher, but the other cost factors shown in Figure 9.2 should be comparable. Table 9.1 shows how many more MMICs are possible on 6-inch wafers compared to smaller diameters. Useable area accounts for edge and dicing street exclusion and PCM sites. If an MMIC HPA design is 4 × 6 mm and the yield is 50%, then there will be 327 MMICs available from a 6-inch wafer compared to 135 from a 4-inch wafer. So from a purely customer perspective, the cost based on 6-inch wafers should be significantly lower. However, from the supplier perspective it may not be cost effective to convert the fabrication facility to 6 inches based on projected sales of MMICs. These decisions are based primarily on foundry loading, which is discussed next.
9.2.4 Impact of MMIC Fabrication Facility Loading on Cost
Loading of a wafer fabrication facility is a measure of how much work is in process versus the capacity of a facility. In Chapter 7, we described a facility that had a capacity to process 30,000 MMIC wafers per year. This means that during any 1 month, they should have at least 2,500 wafers coming off the line as completed wafers. Since it normally takes 8 to 12 weeks to process MMIC wafers the number of wafers in the line at any given time is greater than 2,500. If the facility is operating at full capacity, it is considered fully loaded. If it does not have sales to support operating at full capacity it is under loaded. However, many of the fixed costs are independent of loading and are based on the capacity of the facility. As a result, the cost of wafer fabrication may be on a different cost curve as compared to being fully loaded since the fixed cost must be amortized over the number of wafers being processed. Figure 9.4 is an example of how the cost per fabricated wafer and yield affect the cost of GaAs PHEMT devices in terms of $/mm2. This example shows that with operation near capacity, a fabrication facility can operate on a more cost-effective curve and lower the cost per mm2. It also reiterates that the key factor influencing cost is yield.

Table 9.1
Estimated Number of Good MMICs per Wafer as a Function of Wafer Diameter and Yield


9.2.5 MMIC Cost Based on Area or Output Power
Reducing cost in terms of $/mm2 is always desirable and is a good metric for assessing MMIC cost within a materials technology. However, it may not be an appropriate metric when comparing the cost to achieve a particular RF function at a specific performance level. This is particularly true when assessing the best cost solution for high-power amplifiers that may be implemented in GaAs PHEMT or GaN HEMT.
GaN has a power density of approximately five times higher than GaAs PHEMT at X-band. As a result, the size of the MMIC power amplifier, having the same output power, can be on the order of one-third to one-fourth the size of the GaAs-based amplifier [8]. An actual example of this is given in [9] comparing two 6-W Ka-band MMICs one GaAs PHEMT and the other one GaN. The areas of these manufactured MMICs are 22 mm2 and 5.6 mm2, respectively.


Figure 9.4 MMIC cost in $/mm2 as a function of wafer processing cost and yield.

Cost of the 4-inch starting material for the GaN solution is $8,700 compared to $500 for the GaAs PHEMT starting material. Wafer fabrication cost is assumed to be the same for both materials since they are both Schottky barrier gate processes and require the same number of masking steps. Estimated fabrication cost is assumed to be comparable to the GaN materials cost ($8,700).
Under these assumptions and based on documented materials costs, the processed wafer cost for GaN is $17,400 and the cost for GaAs PHEMT is $9,200. Referring to our die per wafer calculator and assuming that the GaN HPA is 4 mm × 6 mm and the GaAs MMIC is four times larger we find that the possible die per wafer are 213 for the GaN solution and with a defect density of 0.5/cm2, and the projected yield is 88% providing 189 good die. For the GaAs PHEMT case, the area is 96 mm2 and the predicted yield is 63% using the same defect density. This predicts that only 28 GaAs MMICs will be good. As a result, the cost of GaN HPAs should be $92 compared to $328 for the GaAs PHEMT solution. Again, it should be noted that these values are not reflective of the selling price. Profit margins for MMICs are driven by competition. MMIC suppliers, like IC suppliers, are in a strong position to set their margins if they are the first to market with a product.
This example shows that the cost of components for T/R modules must be assessed using the correct metric. Even though the cost of an MMIC HPA, in terms of $/mm2, was considerably lower for GaAs, the cost for the equivalent functional element was significantly higher than for GaN. Each functional element should be assessed in this manner. One technology solution for all the MMICs is probably not the correct decision.
9.3 T/R Module Cost
T/R modules for AESAs are typically designed to meet a performance specification that is flowed down from system-level requirements. As a result, T/R modules require components that are either state-of-the-art or custom circuits that must be designed and iterated to achieve optimum performance. In addition, T/R modules must meet severe environmental and mechanical requirements that necessitate costly metal packages. Given these circumstances, T/R modules are very custom hybrid microwave circuits composed of expensive MMICs, circulators, and interconnect networks housed in metal packages that are gold plated. It should be obvious that T/R modules designed and manufactured by this methodology are expensive.
T/R module cost information tends to be company-proprietary and is guarded in a manner similar to MMIC yield and wafer fabrication cost. Also the cost of T/R modules is strongly dependent on the functionality, output power and frequency of operation. As a result, it is difficult to accurately assess what a T/R module should cost.
In the beginning of this chapter, it was stated that most cost models attribute one-third to one-half the cost of an AESA to the antenna and within the antenna, and one-half the cost of the antenna is associated with the T/R modules [1]. Based on these assumptions, individual T/R modules can have a sell price on the order of $1,760 to $2,600 each. If we assume that the T/R module manufacturer achieves a 20% profit margin, the recurring cost of a T/R module having the complexity described above and packaged to meet expected environmental and mechanical conditions should be in the range of $1,408 to $2,080. This assumes volume production using the automation described in Chapter 7 and includes the cost savings associated with learning.
Figure 9.5 is a breakout of generally accepted percentages of the cost of T/R modules associated with MMICs, purchased parts, assembly, test, and qualification. MMICs include:
•CLC MMIC;
•Driver amplifier;
•One or two HPAs;
•LNA/post-amplifier.


Figure 9.5 Recurring cost factors as a percentage of total T/R module cost.

Within the MMIC chipset, the HPAs account for approximately one-half the cost of the MMICs. So if our assumption that the T/R module should cost and average of ~$1,750, the MMIC chipset should be $700 and the HPAs should cost ~$350.
Purchased parts include:
•Silicon ICs;
•Silicon HexFETs;
•Capacitors;
•Thin-film and thick-film networks;
•Connectors;
•Housings;
•Lids;
•Absorber;
•Hydrogen getter;
•Solder;
•Epoxy;
•Wire;
•Ribbon.
Assembly constitutes 15% of the cost of a T/R module. Touch labor must be minimized to achieve the cost target of $262 per module for assembly. Testing and qualification are equally demanding and the labor associated with these tasks must be minimal.
Based on this analysis, it is clear that the current methodology of designing and building modules needs to change in order to reduce the cost of AESAs. Ways to reduce T/R module cost are discussed in the next section.
9.4 Cost Reduction
9.4.1 MMIC Cost Reduction
MMIC manufacturers work to maximize productivity of fabrication operations. They strive to:
•Increase yields;
•Increase throughput;
•Decrease inventories;
•Decrease operating expenses;
•Decrease lead times.
These goals are accomplished by reducing manufacturing cycle times, improving throughput (by increasing equipment productivity), and reducing the time spent performing nonvalue-added procedures (i.e., misprocessing, setup of equipment, running test wafers) [10]. RF MMIC manufacturing objectives include:
•Improved process capability;
•Greater equipment availability/utilization;
•Reduced misprocessing;
•Higher yields;
•Reduced step-up time of equipment;
•Selective use of off-line metrology and inspection equipment;
•Faster learning and diagnosis (e.g., yield ramp or yield learning);
•Improved scheduling and maintenance procedures;
•Smoother transitions from R&D and pilot line operations to production;
•Better understanding of processes and manufacturing [10].
An easy way to lower MMIC cost is to process larger-diameter wafers. However, this requires the infrastructure to do so, which may not be easy. If we refer back to Table 9.1 and compare the number of good die per wafer at a 60% yield, we see that we get almost 400 MMICs from a 6-inch wafer versus 161 from a 4-inch wafer. If we assume that the 6-inch wafer cost is $1,000 compared to $500 for a 4-inch GaAs wafer with epi and the fabrication cost is $8,700, the per MMIC cost is reduced from $57 down to $24. If there is on the order of 150,000 MMICs per array face, the cost savings is approximately $5 million.
Chip compaction is another way to reduce the cost of MMICs. An example of this cost reduction measure is described by Markus Behet, Qorvo, Inc. [11]. In this demonstration, the first iteration of an automotive radar MMIC was 12.3 mm2. Through a series of design and fabrication iterations, the circuit was reduced to 2.8 mm2 while maintaining the same functionality. Advanced computer-aided design automation allowed circuit elements to be more closely spaced while maintaining sufficient isolation to prohibit cross-talk. These chip compaction iterations are shown in Figure 9.6. Using the iSine die per wafer calculator, we find that at 12.3 mm2 we expect 209 good MMICs. At an area of 2.8 mm2 we expect to have 916 good MMICs. If the wafer fab cost is $9,200 per wafer, the cost of the compact MMIC is $10.00 versus $44.62 for the first iteration.
Increasing the level of monolithic integration is another method to reduce cost. Fewer components mean fewer assembly steps reducing assembly time and increasing throughput. The T/R core chip that was discussed in Chapter 2 is a good example of higher levels of MMIC integration [11]. Phase shifter, attenuator, and switching and control functions are all integrated on a single MMIC. Only two additional chips are required to implement the T/R functional block. A particular example of a core chip is the CHC3014 MMIC produced by United Monolithic Semiconductors. The CHC3014 is a transmit and receive X-band MMIC that includes a 6-bit phase shifter, a 6-bit attenuator, a second 2-bit attenuator used for tuning, self-biased buffers, switches, and TTL-compatible parallel interfaces [12]. The chip size is 4.47 mm × 5.07 mm, which should have a yield better than 50% on its well-established 0.25-µm GaAs PHEMT process.
Increasing the level of integration results in larger MMICs. Wafer processing yields tend to decrease with larger area MMICs so there is some optimum level of integration for MMIC chip sets.
Semiconductor cost reduction will always be a trade-off against performance. Without question, the lowest cost semiconductor approach will be a silicon solution. CMOS and SiGe BiCMOS processes have demonstrated very high switching speeds and are clearly suitable for many of the RF functional blocks in a T/R module chipset. Understanding the strengths and limitations of these technologies and applying them where feasible will reduce cost.


Figure 9.6 Cost reduction by chip compaction through design iterations. (© 2009 Qorvo, Inc. Reprinted, with permission, from [11].)

9.4.2 T/R Module Cost Reduction
Cost reduction at the T/R module level is highly desired, but difficult to do after the fact. When the B2 critical item specification (Chapter 8) is written for T/R modules and the module design concept is determined, the only cost reduction steps that are possible are:
•Reduction in the cost of the MMICs and purchased parts;
•Reduction in touch labor by higher levels of automation;
•Reduction in testing and qualification.
In most module facilities these cost reduction measures have already been taken. If cost reduction is considered prior to the specifications and design being finalized, there are several methods to reduce the per T/R channel cost. One method is to design and produce multiple T/R channels on a common substrate. Raytheon supported the development of low-cost, flat-panel X-band array using COTS-type printed circuit boards (PCBs) and demonstrated four T/R channels on a common SiGe BiCMOS substrate at a reported per T/R channel cost of $4 [13]. However, performance of these T/R channels was not comparable to the T/R costing $1750.
The circulator is a large and expensive component in a T/R module. If a T/R switch could be used instead of a circulator, significant savings in cost, size, and weight could be achieved. GaN technology, with its high-power handling capability, may be a solution that does not compromise performance. Multiple GaN T/R switches in optimized circuit configurations could be realized at reduced cost compared to ferrite circulators.
Reducing the physical size and volume of the T/R module can reduce cost. A smaller housing and lid would cost less. Handling of smaller modules in the automated factory should be more efficient. Higher levels of integration would reduce the size and number of interconnects leading to higher assembly throughput.
First-pass T/R module yield is critically important to reducing module cost. Rework is typically a labor-intensive process and is costly.
9.5 Conclusions
This chapter described cost factors associated with the production of T/R modules. Performance-driven T/R modules can be expected to cost over $1,000 and the MMIC chipset is the highest cost factor. Cost must be assessed using the correct metrics. For HPAs, the cost should be assessed in terms of $/W. Cost reduction measures at the MMIC and T/R levels were described. Lower-cost solutions are possible and are described in the next chapter along with the trade-offs required to achieve lower cost.
Problems
9.1If the sale price of an AESA is $100 million and has 20,000 T/R modules, what is the estimated cost of a T/R module if the manufacturer has a 20% margin? What is the estimated cost of the HPAs for the module?
9.2Calculate the total yield of a 10-wafer lot if the line yield was 80%, the dc yield was 75%, the RF yield was 90% and the visual yield was 90%.
9.3How many possible die per wafer are there on a 4-inch diameter wafer if each die is 4 mm × 5 mm and there are five PCM sites on the wafer? Assume the edge exclusion is 5 mm and the dicing streets are 4 mils.
9.4Use an online die per wafer calculator to determine how defect density affects predicted yield on a 4-inch wafer for a MMIC that is 2 mm × 3 mm. Make a plot of wafer yield versus defect density and repeat this for a MMIC that is 4 mm × 6 mm.
9.5Determine the expected cost of the CHC3014 core chip if the predicted total yield on a 4-inch wafer is 45% and it costs $8,500 to fabricate a wafer.
References
[1]Mancuso, Y., P. Gremillet and P. Lacomme, "T/R-Modules Technological and Technical Trends for Phased Array Antennas," 2005 European Microwave Conference, October 2005, pp. 614-617.
[2]Verryt, E., "Surface Radar Affordability," Proceedings of the 1999 Defense Manufacturing Conference, Miami Beach, FL, November 29-December 2, 1999.
[3]Balle, J., "About the THAAD System," https://www.bga-aeroweb.com/Defense/THAAD.html, updated October 2014.
[4]"AN/TPY-2," http://www.radartutorial.eu/19.kartei/karte119.en.html, 2015.
[5]Section 2, "Cost per Wafer," Integrated Circuit Engineering Corp. Smithsonian, The Chip Collection, 2001.
[6]http://anysilicon.com/die-per-wafer-formula-free-calculators/.
[7]iSine Die Yield Calculator, http://www.isine.com/DieYieldCalculator.html.
[8]Whelan, C., "Affordability of GaN Technology," 2009 International Microwave Symposium Workshop, Boston, MA, June 2009.
[9]Reese, E., "RF Applications of GaN for Dummies," http://www.qorvo.com/gan-for-dum-mies, 2014.
[10]Section 4, "Fab Benchmarking" Integrated Circuit Engineering Corp. Smithsonian, The Chip Collection, 2001.
[11]Behet, M., "Low Cost and High Performance MMIC Solutions for Automotive Radar," TriQuint Application Note, 2009.
[12]"T/R Module Solution for X-band Phased-Array Radar," Microwave Journal, October 2010, pp. 146-150.
[13]Brookner, E., "Recent Developments and Future Trends in Phased Arrays," 2013 IEEE International Symposium on Phased Array Systems & Technology, Waltham, MA, October 2013.







10
Next-Generation T/R Modules
10.1 Introduction
In this concluding chapter, our goal is to analyze next-generation T/R modules. Although we have attempted to focus on facts and data, portions of this chapter are speculative. In addition, the chapter covers a wide range of technologies that will impact the future of T/R modules.
The vast majority of T/R modules currently being used are hermetic metal modules with ceramic substrates. Some existing systems have been developed that break with this approach. However, very few of these newer approaches have been deployed. This will change in the near future due to several contributing factors.
For one, the capability to develop and deploy AESAs is no longer captivate within a few organizations in industrialized countries in North America, Europe, and Asia. The capability is being dispersed into smaller companies and into many countries.
In addition, the fabrication methods used to manufacture T/R modules used to be highly specialized. Most companies who fabricated AESAs had their own captive fabrication facility with the unique processes required to fabricate T/R modules. However, the required manufacturing processes are no longer boutique. The required fabrication methods are essentially ubiquitous and commodity. This has been made possible, in part, by the expansion of manufacturing required for high-speed optical telecom and millimeter-wave, high-speed, point-to-point systems. As it turns out, those industries use the same or very similar fabrication techniques that are used for the fabrication of T/R modules.
Another factor contributing to the deployment of new technologies in T/R modules is lower cost and increased capability integrated circuits. Specifically, the widespread availability of SiGe and Si-CMOS integrated circuit processes that support operation into millimeter-wave frequencies. This capability is driven by the microprocessor industry, which pushed for shorter transistor gate lengths to increase the density, reduce the size of their integrated circuits, and increase functionality of their products. A side benefit to the AESA market (and many others) is that these low-cost integrated circuit processes can now be used to produce the key components used in T/R modules. For instance, Si-CMOS has been used to realize phased array functionality in one integrated circuit at a cost that is 100 to 1,000 times lower than is possible using traditional methods. There are performance trade-offs, to be sure, such as output power and receive noise figure. However, this does not negate the impact that SiGe and Si-CMOS IC processes are having on T/R modules and AESAs.
As mentioned in other chapters, the use of GaN for power amplifiers is also permitting the realization of innovative approaches to T/R modules.
In addition to the improvements in integrated circuit processing, new materials for packaging have been developed. For instance, metal composites such as Cu-diamond provide thermal solutions that are required to realize the performance enhancements made available by GaN. Additive manufacturing methods are expected to have a positive impact on T/R module fabrication and capability.
In this chapter, we will show examples of new methods being used to realize T/R modules and a few older methods that are being recycled by implementation in new materials. Although the emphasis of this chapter will be on integrated circuit processing and fabrication methods, we will also show how older methods used for beam-forming phased arrays such as the Butler matrix are being applied to phased arrays. We also discuss digital beamforming, in which a majority of the T/R module functionality is performed in the digital domain. Although some of the methods discussed in this chapter do not strictly need T/R modules, the discussion of them allows for a well-rounded extrapolation to next-generation systems. As will be seen, these methods can result in lower cost, higher performance, and compact T/R modules.
10.2 Single-Chip T/R Module
For many systems, full T/R module functionality can be realized in a single integrated circuit. In this case, the low-noise amplifier (LNA), phase shifter, variable gain amplifier, and high-power amplifier are designed into in a single GaAs or SiGe integrated circuits. Figure 10.1(a) show an example of a single-chip T/R module realized in GaAs [1]. Two of the advantages of realizing the functionality in GaAs are that it can achieve lower noise figures for a given process device gate length and it can generate high output power on transmit. The most important drawback of GaAs-based single-chip T/R modules is that they are higher cost compared to SiGe or Si-CMOS and they cannot achieve the same level of function integration.


Figure 10.1 Transmit receive modules have be realized in (a) GaAs as a single channel, and (b) SiGe as a single channel, and (c) SiGe as a four-channel module. (© 2000, 2009 IEEE. Reprinted, with permission, from [1, 2].)

Contrast this with SiGe. The main advantage of a SiGe single-chip T/R module is that it can be extremely low cost compared to GaAs. Figure 10.1(b) shows an image of a single-chip T/R module realized in SiGe and Figure 10.1 (c) shows a four-channel T/R module realized in SiGe [2]. An important advantage of SiGe is that it can have a five to 20 times lower cost than GaAs. Another feature of SiGe is that it is low power. The single-channel T/R module consumes 43 mW in TX and 35.5 mW in RX, and the four-channel version consumes 172 mW in TX and 142 mW in RX from a 1.8-V RF supply voltage. The chip was realized in a 0.13-m process.
As device performance in SiGe and Si-CMOS continues to improve, much higher levels of integration for single and multichannel T/R will be realized. The integration can include increased functionality that will be important for future systems such as digital converters, digital filters, processing, data compression, temperature stabilization, and auto calibration methods. Methods for realizing T/R modules in SiGe and Si-CMOS have resulted in increased levels of integration. Next we will consider wafer-level realizations in SiGe.
10.3 Wafer-Scale Phased Array
Because of the integration capability of SiGe, designers have realized highly integrated arrays that are wafer-scale. For instance, a team of researchers lead by Gabriel Rebeiz at the University of California at San Diego developed a 64-element wafer-scale phased array [3]. An image of the array is shown in Figure 10.2. This radar uses T/R modules with phase and amplitude control at each element of the array.
The phased array includes on-wafer antennas that are spaced at half-wavelength, 3-bit amplitude control circuitry, and 5-bit phase control at each element in the array. The designers were able to implement the RF signal distribution circuits in a redundant fashion to increase the yield. The array occupies one full reticle of the wafer.
10.4 Si-CMOS: The Lowest-Cost Single-Chip T/R
Si-CMOS has a lower cost than SiGe. Si-CMOS also has the benefit that very high-frequency transistors are available. The desire for higher levels of integration for mobile processors has resulted in SiCMOS integrated circuit foundries making extreme advances in deep submicron gate length transistors. The side benefit is that those transistors are useful for the realization of T/R modules.
One of the main obstacles to realization of circuits at microwave and millimeter-wave frequencies in Si-CMOS is high precision models of the transistors and passives [4]. As new processes with shorter gate length devices become available, the foundries traditionally do not dedicate model development resources for models that extend much beyond the needs of their largest customers. Therefore, research labs and universities must develop test stations with the required precision to accurately measure transistors and passives in the newly available processes. The best of these models capture the temperature effects. Once models with the required fidelity are available, the detailed design of the devices can begin.


Figure 10.2 Wafer-scale phased array realized in SiGe. (© 2014 IEEE. Reprinted, with permission, from [3].)

SiCMOS has also been used to realize T/R modules. Figure 10.3(a) shows an image of an active quadrature phase shifter realized in Si-CMOS [5, 6]. This phase shifter can form the heart of a phased array radar since it will achieve the phase shift required to steer the radar beam.
Four-element transmit-and-receive chips were developed in 90-nm Si-CMOS and are shown in Figure 10.3(b, c). The phase shifters in those die are based upon 50-GHz vector modulators.
10.5 Digital Beamforming
Digital beamforming uses circuitry that is a departure from the normal T/R module [7, 8]. This is because the phase shift required for beam forming is realized in the digital domain. In other words, the phase shift is realized when the signal is digital bits. Therefore, a phase shifter is not part of the electronics in the T/R module. Instead, in the simplest case the T/R module consists of front filtering, low-noise amplifier, high-power amplifier, and mixing along with analog-to-digital conversion. In a practical system, the block diagram will be more complicated. For instance, the LNA and HPA will likely be multistage and there may be additional filters and other components in the system. A simplified block diagram of one element in a digital beamforming array is shown in Figure 10.4. Note that this block diagram is repeated for each element in the array.


Figure 10.3 Si-CMOS was used to realize: (a) a compact quadrature phase shifter, (b) a receive phased array IC, and (c) a transmit phased array IC. (© 2008 IEEE. Reprinted, with permission, from [6].)



Figure 10.4 Block diagram of a possible digital beamforming AESA front end.

Considering the receive portion of the digital receiver, one of the most important points to consider the data rate out of the ADC. This is important since it impacts the digital interface requirements and processing power requirements of the digital portion. The data rate at the point RXout is given by

where FS = sample rate of the ADC (MSPS), N = number of bits in the ADC, ADC = analog-to-digital converter, control bits = the data rate of the control bits that control the function of the ADC, and status bits = the data rate of the status bits out of the ADC such as the over-range bit.
In most applications the data rate of control bits and status bits will be much lower than the data rate at RXout and so we will neglect their contribution to the overall data bandwidth. Consider an example where the ADC has 16 bits and a sample rate of 100 MSPS. In this case, the data rate at RXout will be equal to 100 × 16 = 1.6 GSPS per element in the array. This means that for an 8 × 8 array, the total data rate from the RXout ports will be 1.6 GSPS/element × 64 elements = 102.4 GSPS. This illustrates one of the important design considerations for digital beamforming, which is the handling of the data. Although it is true that some systems can achieve performance with few bits in the ADC, and some systems do not need to sample at 100 MSPS, the trend in radar systems is more bits for increased resolution and higher sampling rate for increased bandwidth.
Another concern about digital beamforming is the power consumption required by the processing. Although it is possible to procure ADCs with reasonable power dissipation, the FPGA and other processors require significant power. The FPGA and processors perform the important function of combining the signals from multiple elements, processing of the signals, and data packaging for transport to the next level in the system (additional processing and signal analysis). Because of the limitation in data bandwidth, there is a practical limit on the number of elements (channels) in the array that an FPGA can handle. For instance, if an FPGA is used to capture data from four elements in an array with 16-bit ADCs running at 100 MSPS, then the data rate out of the FPGA will be 1.6 GSPS × 4 = 6.4 GSPS. While the FPGA may be able to handing pumping out that data rate, the digital interface to the next level becomes a concern even if high-speed interfaces are used.
Despite the data-handling concerns, the possibility of tracking multiple targets makes the digital beamforming approach very attractive for some applications. This is especially true for military systems, which must track an increasing number of targets.
10.6 Hybrid Digital/Analog Beam Forming
This concern over the high data and complexity of digital beamforming has led to the development of hybrid systems. A hybrid system uses a combination of analog and digital array methods. In this case, conventional analog T/R modules are used at the subarray level, and digital beamforming is used to combine the subarrays [9]. This method avoids some of the complexity, data handling, and power consumption issues with fully digital beamforming.
The block diagram of a hybrid system is shown in Figure 10.5. Note how the figure shows two subarrays being combined into a high speed ADC block with baseband processing. In a full system, there will be multiple subarrays each fed into a separate multichannel high-speed ADC.
This hybrid method is normally applied to the receiver section of the array and multiple modes are used on transmit such as a wide beam transmit signal.
10.7 Switch Beam and Butler Matrix Phased Arrays
One method for realizing a phased array is to use a Butler matrix [10]. In this realization, the antenna beam is steered using a combination of couplers. This approach does not use T/R modules. Instead, a series of 3-dB couplers with 90° phase shift and two 45° phase shifters are normally realized using transmission lines delay sections.
One of the drawbacks of the Butler matrix is the insertion loss due to the couplers and crossover circuit layout that is required. To overcome this limitation, it is common to use waveguide. However, waveguide is large and heavy, which makes it unusable in some applications. Some researchers have realized a Butler matrix using substrate integrated waveguide (SIW). The benefits are that it is much smaller than waveguide due to the dielectric loading of the substrate material and it is lower weight since it is realized using low-loss laminate circuit board material. This method is particularly well suited for use in high-power applications at Ku-band [11].


Figure 10.5 Block diagram of a hybrid system with analog beam steering at the T/R module and digital beam steering at the digital receiver. (© 2014 IEEE. Reprinted, with permission, from [9].)

The Butler matrix has also been applied to phased arrays at millimeter-wave frequencies. For instance, it was used to realize a phased array at 60 GHz for high data rate applications [12]. The concern over the insertion loss of the couplers and phase elements is increased at millimeter-wave frequencies. Therefore, designers of these systems work to find low insertion loss components and transmission line types to fabricate the components. One such method is the use of integrated passive device (IPD) technology. This method realizes passives on semiconductor or glass substrates to achieve high Q lumped elements and low insertion loss transmission lines. It was used for the couplers. In this application, a 4 × 4 Butler matrix was realized. It achieved beam switching at −62°, −23°, 22°, and 50° directions. For application where fixed beams are required, the Butler matrix may be a viable option.
10.8 Highly Integrated Packaging of T/R Modules
Some solutions are using high levels of integration not only at the integrated circuit level, but also at the system level. In these approaches, the T/R module, beamforming network, and antenna are designed together as a single unit. This method is gaining traction, especially at millimeter-wave frequencies where the electromagnetic interactions require a more integrated analysis method. However, more than just designing to account for interactions, these new solutions are actively trading off design details at multiple levels. As with other solutions considered in this chapter, this approach is made possible by the advancements in the electronic design software tools.
In one solution [13], an electronically scanned array for mobile phone base stations is realized. It uses switched beams and microelectromechanical systems (MEMS). The RF MEMS are used to switch in different beam states to a four-element array.
10.9 Path to Low-Cost Systems: Open Architectures
Currently, most large phased array platforms are proprietary to a few companies. These companies are vertically integrated and have control over the key portions of the system such as the T/R module. This has certain business benefits to the manufacturer of the radars, but the consumer of the arrays normally pays a higher cost.
One option to reduce the cost of phased arrays is to make the architecture open. This means that the system is configured so that major functions are specified which allows multiple suppliers to create competition. Open systems are important to achieving cost, supportability, and maintainability.
For phased arrays, open architecture means a component-based approach to the overall system. Future radars will be partitioned so that major functions can be separated. In this case, does the user become the system integrator? Or will the major AESA suppliers transform into system integrators? The answers to these questions are unclear at this time. However, there is some agreement that the open architecture will partition the T/R module at the subarray. In other words, subarray specifications will be developed and competed among multiple suppliers.
As T/R modules become more of a commodity item, it will become easier to fabricate subarrays that can accommodate multiple system platforms. For the subarray, what is required is:
•Proper system level partitioning: A systems engineering effort will be required to determine the proper dividing line between functions that simultaneously optimize the performance, cost, weight, and other important metrics.
•A library of common mechanical interface: In the same way that personal computers standardized on the mechanical support interfaces for plug-in boards, the AESA industry will need to standardize on mechanical connection of subarrays.
•A library of common electrical interfaces: This includes high-performance electrical connectors that support the required performance and reliability. The subarray will also have high current bias interconnects that must be specified to meet the power handling.
•A library of thermal interfaces: Most subarrays generate significant heat energy that must be managed properly. Any system partition must accommodate heat densities at the subarray that are consistent with power levels achieved.
10.10 Conclusions
Next-generation AESAs will use T/R modules that leverage the advances in semiconductor materials, metal materials, digital beamforming, and open architectures to realize next-generation systems. In the future, phased arrays and T/R modules will be used on consumer systems such as mobile phones and satellite high-speed data access. To meet this need, designers of AESAs will need to take advantage of the available solutions.
Problems
10.1What are some of the contributing factors that are causing AESAs to become more common?
10.2Which T/R module functions are being designed into single-chip T/R modules? What is the main benefit of SiGe over GaAs single-chip T/R modules?
10.3For a digital beamforming array, what is the receive data rate of a single element in the array if the sample rate is 100 MSPS, with 16 bits, and zero control bits? What is the data rate for an array with 512 elements?
10.4What is the main benefit of using a hybrid digital/analog beamforming array?
10.5How can open architectures benefit the procurement of AESAs?
References
[1]de Boer, A., and K. Mouthaan, "GaAs Mixed Signal Multi-Function X-Band MMIC with 7 Bit Phase and Amplitude Control and Integrated Serial to Parallel Converter," 30th European Microwave Conference, Paris, France, October 2000.
[2]Kang, D. W., et al., "Single and Four-Element Ka-Band Transmit/Receive Phased-Array Silicon RFICs with 5-Bit Amplitude and Phase Control," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 57, No. 12, 2009, pp. 3534-3543.
[3]Zihirl, S., et al., "A 60GHz 64-Element Wafer-Scale Phased-Array with Full-Reticle Design," IEEE International Microwave Symposium, Phoenix, AZ, May 17-22, 2015.
[4]Mallavarpu, N., et al., "Temperature-Dependent Millimeter-Wave Scalable Large-Signal Model for 90nm CMOS," Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference, Macau, China, December 2008.
[5]Vadivelu, P. B., et al., "Integrated CMOS mm-Wave Phase Shifters for Single Chip Portable Radar," IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, Boston, MA, June 7-12, 2009, pp. 565-568.
[6]Pinel, S., et al., "60GHz Single-Chip CMOS Digital Radios and Phased Array Solutions for Gaming and Connectivity," IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, Vol. 27, No. 8, 2008, pp. 1347-1357.
[7]Curtis, D. D., et al., "32-Channel X-Band Digital Beamforming Plug-and-Play Receive Array," IEEE International Symposium on Phased Array Systems and Technology, October 14-17, 2003, pp. 205-210.
[8]Weedon, W. H., "Phased Array Digital Beamforming Hardware Development at Applied Radar," IEEE International Symposium on Phased Array Systems and Technology, October 12-15, 2010, pp. 854-859.
[9]Xie, L., et al., "Hybrid Analog-Digital Antenna Array with Built-In Image Injection Calibration," IEEE Trans. on Antennas and Propagation, Vol. 62, No. 11, 2014, pp. 5513-5523.
[10]Butler, J., and R. Lowe, "Beam Forming Matrix Simplifies Design of Electronically Scanned Antennas," Electronic Design, Vol. 9, April 1962, pp. 170-173.
[11]Djerafi, T., N. J. G. Fonseca, and K. Wu, "Design and Implementation of a Planar 4x4 Butler Matrix in SIW Technology for Wide Band High Power Applications," Progress in Electromagnetics Research B, Vol. 35, 2011, pp. 29-51.
[12]Chang, C. C., C. C. Lin, and W. K. Cheng, "Fully Integrated 60 GHz Switched-Beam Phased Antenna Array in Glass-IPD Technology," Electronic Letters, Vol. 51, No. 11, 2015, pp. 804-806.
[13]Ko, C. H., K. M. Ho, and G. M. Rebeiz, "An Electronically-Scanned 1.8-2.1 GHz Base-Station Antenna Using Packaged High-Reliability RF MEMS Phase Shifters," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory and Techniques, Vol. 61, No. 2, 2013, pp. 979-985.







About the Authors
Mike Harris has 40 years experience in semiconductor materials and device technology. He earned an M.S.E.E. and a B.S.E.E. from the Georgia Institute of Technology. He was a senior reliability engineer at Harris Semiconductor from 1974-1976. He joined GTRI in 1976, where he directed and managed over 50 research projects. He developed high-performance pseudomorphic high-electron mobility transistor (PHEMT) processes for GTRI, and engineered processes to produce space-qualified mixer diodes. He designed and fabricated indium phosphide-based optoelectronic switches and performed reliability investigations on PHEMT and heterojunction bipolar transistors (HBTs). Mr. Harris directed a team to design and build GaN-based HEMTs. He invented thermal management and packaging concepts to permit the use of high power density wide bandgap semiconductors in phased array radars.
Mr. Harris began working in the area of transmit/receive (T/R) modules in 1985, and continues to work on radar programs using T/R modules. He organizes and teaches a course on T/R modules for phased array radar as part of Georgia Tech's Defense Technology Professional Education program. In 2005, he was awarded the IEEE Fellow grade for "contributions to the electrical and thermal properties of wideband gap semiconductors." He has authored over 80 technical reports and refereed papers.
Rick Sturdivant has 26 years of industry experience designing products for microwave and millimeter-wave systems. He earned an M.S.E.E. from the University of California at Los Angeles, a B.S.E.E. from California State University at Long Beach, and a B.A. in religion from Vanguard University. He is the author of Microwave and Millimeter-Wave Electronic Packaging (Artech House, 2013) and Microwave Electronic Packaging, Chapter 1 (Springer Publishing, 2010). He was a Hughes Aircraft Microwave Fellow from 1990-1992. He developed the world's first tile array module for phased array radar, for which he received the Engineering Excellence Award in 1993 from Hughes Aircraft Company.
He was part of a team that developed the world's first ball grid array modulator driver in 2002. He has started several successful companies that develop products for consumer electronics, wireless, and military systems. He is currently President of Microwave Packaging Technology, Inc., which provides research and development services in the area of phased arrays for communication and radar systems. He has published over 20 technical articles and holds six patents with five others pending.







Index
Accelerated test systems, 155
Acceleration factor, 156
Activation energy, 157
Active devices, 78-82
GaAs MESFETs, 78-79
GaAs PHEMTs, 79-80
GaN HEMTs, 80-82
Active electronic scanned arrays (AESAs)
defined, 1-2
illustrated, 3
noise temperature, 51, 52
for radar applications, 2-3
system architecture block diagram, 27
system dynamic range, 51
system receive performance, 51
for weather applications, 16
Advanced Design System (ADS), 174
Air bridges, 77-78
Amplifier efficiency, dissipated thermal power and, 150-52
Antennas
beam intersection, 15
directivity, 5, 9
electronically steerable, 6-10
patterns and line arrays, 5-6, 7
performance, 31
use of, 5
Array beamformers, 54
Attenuators, 21, 22, 31-34
calibrating cascaded receive gain and, 33
defined, 31
digital, 33-34
performance parameters, 34
sidelobe reduction and, 32
See also T/R modules
Automated test equipment (ATE), 199-200
Avoid parasitic modes, 98-101
B2 Critical Item Development Specification, 193
Ball-and-stitch bonds, 87, 88
Board fabrication, laminate, 137-40
Butler matrix phased array, 226
Capacitor mask, 173
Carrier-to-noise (C/N) ratio, satellite links, 17-18
Cavity resonance method, 123-24
Ceramic materials
benefits of, 129-30
thick-film, 131-34
thin-film, 130-31
See also Materials
Chip compaction, 215, 216
Chip-level interconnects, 87-101
flip-chip methods, 93-101
wire bonding methods, 87-88
wire bond modeling, 88-93
See also Signal integrity
Circulators, 44-45
Cleanrooms, 169-70, 171, 175
Communication systems
link path loss, 17
phased arrays for, 16-19
receiver G/T, 17-18
receiver noise power, 18
satellite links, 16-18
transmitted power, 17
Conductor-backed coplanar waveguides (CBCPWs), 105
Convection, 149
Coplanar waveguides
conductor-backed, 105
with ground (CPWG), 102
line, 98-101
probe, 189
Core chip, 34
Cost, 205-17
breakdown, 206
introduction to, 205-6
open architectures and, 227-28
reduction, 214-17
Coupling, between interconnects, 106-7
CPW line
gap, 98
ground pads, 101
on motherboard, transition, 100
parallel plate mode, 98-99
proximity effect, 99
DC consumption, 198
DC yield, 208
Diamond-enhanced GaN high-power amplifiers, 157-59
Dielectric constant, 117-19
effective, 121-22
frequency-dependent, 122
as macroscopic measure, 119
measurement of, 120-24
Dielectric deposition, 76-77
Dielectric material, 117-19
Digital beamforming, 223-25
Direct bond copper (DBC), 134
Directivity, antenna, 5, 9
Dissipated thermal power
amplifier efficiency and, 150-52
calculation, 151
Dissipation factor (DF), 119
Drain efficiency, 38, 39
Driver amplifiers, 22, 34-38
circuit schematic, 37
current-voltage characteristics, 37
dc-to-RF power conversion, 36
defined, 34-35
drain efficiency, 38
load line and bias point, 38
output power, 38
performance parameters, 35
transistors, 35
See also T/R modules
Dual in-line packages (DIP), 102
Duplexer, 22
Duty cycle, 196
Dynamic range, 51, 55
Electrical parameters, 117-27
dielectric constant, 117-19, 120-24
loss tangent, 119-24
measurement of, 120-24
metal electrical conductivity, 125-27
Electrical parameters (testing), 194-200
DC consumption, 198
duty cycle, 196
example of, 199-200
gain, 199
gain compression, 199
input drive level, 195
maximum receive signal level, 199
module-to-module amplitude tracking, 198
module-to-module phase tracking, 198
noise figure, 199
peak output power, 195
phase error, 197-98
power-added efficiency (PAE), 196
pulse droop, 197
receive mode, 199
RMS amplitude error, 198
spurious signals and harmonics, 198
third-order intercept (TOI), 199
transmit mode, 194-98
transmit rise/fall time, 197
VSWR, 195
Electronically steerable antennas, 6-10
Electronic design automation (EDA), 173
Electronic packaging, 126
Electroplating, 77
Emissivity, 150
Field effect transistors
current-voltage characteristics, 37
dc-to-RF power conversion, 36
Flip-chip interconnects
avoid parasitic modes from, 98-101
benefits of, 93-94
challenges, 93
electrical modeling of, 96-98
hard bump, 95, 96
illustrated, 95
solder bump, 95, 96
stud bump, 95, 96
transition illustration, 97
See also Chip-level interconnects
GaAs, 62-67
boules, 63
defined, 62
growth of, 62
ingot production methods, 62
LEC system for, 64
n-type layer, 65
requirements for, 63-65
single-crystal semi-insulating, 63
structure, 66
wafer orientation, 64
wafers, 63
GaAs MESFETs, 78-79
channel concentration, 79
defined, 78
figure of merit, 79
structure, 65
switches, 27-28
GaAs PHEMTs, 79-80
device optimization, 80
wafer processing flow diagram, 172
Gain, 199
Gain compression, 199
Gain/loss analysis, 25
GaN, 72-73
base materials for, 159
epitaxial layer, 158
GaN HEMTs
cross-section, 81
defined, 80
development of, 80-81
fabrication, 81-82
GaN MMICs, 164
Gate definition, 172
Gate formation, 75-76
Geostationary satellites, 16
Ground-signal-ground (GSG) probes, 120
Hard bump flip-chip interconnect, 95, 96
Heat dissipation
amplifier efficiency and, 150-52
example, 153-54
Heat flux
convection and, 149
GaN high-power amplifiers, 148
in MMIC high-power amplifiers, 146-50
radiation and, 149-50
standard definition, 147
thermal conductivity and, 148-49
Heat issues/solutions, 145-65
conclusions, 164-65
diamond-enhanced GaN high-power amplifiers, 157-59
dissipated thermal power, 150-52
dissipation by components, 153-54
heat flux, 146-50
introduction to, 145-46
reliability calculations, 154-57
thermal measurements, 161-64
thermal resistance, 152-53
thermal simulations with SPICE, 159-61
Heterostructures, 67-71
HEXFETs, 57
High Earth orbital (HEO) satellites, 16
High electron mobility transistors (HEMTs)
defined, 67
GaN, 80-82
pseudomorphic, 67-68
High-fidelity model
element positions, 90-91
microstrip line sections, 93
simulated results, 93
See also Wire bonds
Highly integrated packaging, 226-27
High-performance laminate materials, 140
High resolution X-ray diffraction (HRXRD), 186
High-temperature co-fired ceramic (HTCC) material, 134-36
defined, 134
postprocessing, 136
process flow, 134-36
Hybrid digital/analog beam forming, 225
Incoming materials testing, 185-87
Inductively coupled plasma (ICP) etching, 78
InP, 73
In-process testing, 187-88
Input drive level, 195
Interconnects
chip-level, 87-101
coupling between, 106-7
electrical, 106
flip-chip, 93-101
module, 102, 107
package/module-level, 102-4
SMT package, 102-4
transmission line, 104-6
vertical transition, 107-9
Isolation, 74
Junction temperatures, 153
Laminate packages, 137-41
board fabrication, 137
high-performance materials, 140
liquid crystal polymers (LCPs), 140
MCM-L, 141
Life testing, 155
Limiters, 45-49
defined, 45-49
diode, circuit schematic, 46
function of, 45-46
impedance matching, 48-49
implementation, 49
key performance parameters, 47, 48
output power, 47
turn-on-time, 46
Line arrays, 5-6, 7
Line yield, 207
Liquid crystal polymers (LCPs), 140
Liquid-encapsulated Czochralski (LEC) system, 64
Loss tangent
defined, 119
DF and, 119
measurement of, 120-24
Low Earth orbital (LEO) satellites, 16
Low-fidelity model, 89-90
Low-noise amplifiers (LNAs), 22, 49-56
importance of, 49
key performance parameters, 49
linear region operation, 50
noise figure, 50, 51-52
spurious-free dynamic range (SFDR), 53
third-order intercept (TOI) point, 50, 51, 56
Low-temperature co-fired ceramic (LTCC) material, 136-37
Materials, 115-41
ceramic, 129-36
choice of, 115-16
electrical parameters, 117-27
energy bands of, 117
high-temperature co-fired ceramic (HTCC), 134-36
introduction to, 115-16
laminate packages, 137-41
low-temperature co-fired ceramic (LTCC), 136-37
mechanical parameters, 127-29
metallic, 125-27
thermal conductivity, 127-29
view of selection process, 116
Maximum receive signal level, 199
MCM-L laminate multichip modules, 141
Measurements
with cavity resonance method, 123-24
dielectric constant and loss tangent, 120-24
with resonator method, 120-23
thermal, 161-64
transmission line, 124
Mechanical parameters, 127-29
Metal electrical conductivity, 125-27
Metal-insulator-metal (MIM) capacitors, 66, 67
Metal-organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD), 67-71
Microstrip lines, 105, 125
MMIC-based T/R modules
examples of, 23-24
heat flux in, 146-50
MMIC cost
based on area or output power, 210-12
fabrication facility loading and, 209-10
introduction to, 205-6
reduction, 214-16
wafer diameter impact on, 209
wafer fabrication, 206-7
wafer fabrication process yield, 207-9
MMIC fabrication, 168-74
cleanrooms, 169-70, 171
conclusions, 183
cost, 206-7
discrete device processing steps, 168
facilities, 168-70
facility loading impact on cost, 209-10
foundry procedures, 173-74
introduction to, 167-68
processes, 170-73
volume facility illustration, 169
MMIC testing, 185-92
incoming materials, 185-87
in-process, 187-88
reliability, 191-92
screening, 190-91
on-wafer RF, 188-90
Module interconnects, 102, 107
Module resonances, 109-12
Module-to-module amplitude tracking, 198
Module-to-module phase tracking, 198
Molecular beam epitaxy (MBE), 67-71
Monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMICs), xv, 82
elements, 170
foundry procedures, 173-74
junction temperature of, 153
testing, 185-92
thermal resistance, 152
See also MMIC cost; MMIC fabrication; MMIC testing
Next-generation T/R modules
conclusions, 228
digital beamforming, 223-25
highly integrated packaging, 226-27
hybrid digital/analog beam forming, 225
introduction to, 219-20
open architectures, 227-28
Si-CMOS, 222-23
single-chip, 220-21
switch beam and Butler matrix phased arrays, 225-26
wafer-scale phased array, 222
Noise figure, 50, 51-52, 199
Noise power, 52, 55
Noise temperature, 51, 55
Ohmic contacts, 74-75, 171
On-wafer RF testing, 188-90
Open architectures, 227-28
Organization, this book, xvi-xvii
Package/module-level interconnect
defined, 102
module interconnects, 102
SMT package interconnects, 102-4
Parasitic resonance, 101
Passive electronically scanned array (PESA), 1
PAVE PAWS T/R modules, 23
Peak output power, 195
Phased arrays, 1-19
antennas and, 5-10
beamwidth, 8
Butler matrix, 226
for communication systems, 16-19
electronically scanned, 1-4
far-field antenna pattern for, 6
key properties, 32
line, 5-6, 7
passive electronically scanned array (PESA), 1, 2
performance parameters, 8
in radar and communication systems, 1-4
in satellite TV reception, 4
switch beam, 225
wafer-scale, 222
See also Active electronic scanned arrays (AESAs)
Phase error, 197-98
Phase shifters, 21, 22, 28-31
defined, 28
digital, 29
electronic beam steering with, 29
implementation, 29
network categories, 29-30
performance requirements, 30
quantization error, 30
Plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD), 74-75
Power-added efficiency (PAE), 150, 151, 196
Power amplifiers, 22, 38-44
absolute maximum ratings, 41
bias, 43
class-E, circuit schematic, 43, 44
defined, 38-39
drain efficiency, 39
efficiency of, 42-43
electrical specifications, 40
high dissipation conditions, 41
higher-frequency, 43
hybrid versions, 43-44
load line and bias point, 39
output power, 41-42
peak PAE, 39-40
performance parameters, 40
recommended operating conditions, 42
switch-mode, 43
See also T/R modules
Power-aperture-gain (PAG), 24
Precipitation, 14
Process control monitor (PCM), 187-88
Process design kits (PDKs), 173
Pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistors (PHEMTs), 67-68, 69, 79-80
Pulse droop, 197
Quad flat no-lead (QFN) package, 102, 103, 104
Radar cross-section, 13
Radar equation, for weather, 11-16
Radar reflectivity factor, 15-16
Radiation, 149-50
Rate equation, 10-11
Rayleigh scattering, 12
Reactive ion etching (RIE), 78
Receive protect circuits. See Limiters
Reliability calculations, 154-57
Reliability testing, 191-92
Resonances, module, 109-12
Resonant frequency calculation, 111-12
Resonator method, 120-23
Resonators
input/output signal to, 124
ring, 120-23
split, 124
RF yield, 208
RMS amplitude error, 198
Satellite communication links, 16-18
Screening testing, 190-91
Self-organizing networks (SON), 4
Semiconductors
active devices, 78-82
conclusions, 82-83
GaAs, 62-67
GaN, 72-73
heterostructures, 67-71
InP, 73
introduction to, 61
key material properties of, 72
MMICs, 82
SiC, 71-72
SiGe, 73
for T/R modules, 61-83
wafer fabrication process, 74-78
Sheet resistivity map, 187
SiC, 71-72
Si-CMOS, 222-23
SiGe, 73
Signal integrity, 85-112
chip-level interconnects, 87-101
concerns, 85
conclusions, 112
coupling between interconnects and, 106-7
introduction to, 85-86
module resonances, 109-12
package/module-level interconnect, 102-4
transmission line interconnects, 104-6
types of, 86
vertical transition interconnects, 107-9
Signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), 10
Single-chip T/R modules, 220-21
Small outline package (SOP), 102, 103
Solder bump flip-chip interconnect, 95, 96
SPICE
defined, 159
heat transfer simulation, 161
simplified model, 159, 160
thermal simulations with, 159-61
Split resonator, 124
Spurious-free dynamic range (SFDR), 53
Spurious signals and harmonics, 198
Striplines, 105
Stud bump flip-chip interconnect, 95, 96
Surface mount (SMT) package
analysis of, 104
interconnects, 102-4
package transition, 86
Switch beam phased array, 225
Switch-mode amplifiers, 43
Synthetic aperture radar (SAR), 3
Testing, 185-201
environmental, 182
incoming materials, 185-87
introduction to, 185
MMIC, 185-92
in-process, 187-88
reliability, 191-92
screening, 190-91
in T/R module manufacturing process, 181-82
T/R modules, 194-201
on-wafer RF, 188-90
Thermal conductivity, 148-49
defined, 127
as function of electrical conductivity, 128
high temperature and, 128
impurities and additives and, 128
of materials used in T/R modules, 129
for metals, 127-28
Thermal design, 164
Thermally enhanced thick-film processes, 134
Thermal measurements, 161-64
design with surrogate validation chips, 164
electrical test methods, 161-62
optical methods, 162-63
with thermochromic liquid crystals (TLC), 163-64
Thermal resistance
defined, 152
device junction temperature and, 152-53
Thermal simulations, 159-61
Thermochromic liquid crystals (TLC), 163-64
Thick-film ceramic
advantage of, 131
elements, 132-34
high-temperature co-fired ceramic (HTCC), 134-36
low-temperature co-fired ceramic (LTCC), 136
process illustration, 132
processing, 131
thermally enhanced processes, 134
Thin-film ceramic, 130-31
Thin shrunk small outline package (TSSOP), 102
Thin small outline package (TSOP), 102
Third-order intercept (TOI), 199
Third-order intercept (TOI) point, 50, 51, 56
Transmission line interconnects
design of, 106
discontinuities and, 105
performance, 105-6
Transmission lines
impedance of, 104
measurements of, 124
types of, 105
Transmit/receive (TR) modules. See T/R modules
Transmit/receive (TR) switches
defined, 26-27
GaAs MESFET-based, 27-28
implementation, 27
performance characteristics, 28
Transmit rise/fall time, 197
Traveling-wave tubes (TWTs), 194
T/R module cost
information, 212
introduction to, 205-6
percentages, 212-13
purchased parts and, 213
reduction, 216-17
T/R module manufacturing, 174-83
burn-in, 182
cleanroom configuration, 175
conclusions, 183
cure, 178
defense radar and, 167
environmental test, 182
epoxy dispense, 178
facilities, 174-75
final electrical test, 182
final inspection, 183
fundamental processes, 167-68
introduction to, 167-68
leak test, 182
mark lid, 182
pick and place, 178
processes, 175-83
process flow diagram, 176
sealing, 182
serialize housing, 178
solder, 176-77
testing, 181-82
tools, 174-75
wire bonding, 179-81
X-ray inspection, 177
T/R modules, 21-58
in AESAs, xv
array beamformer and, 54
assembly, 26
attenuator, 21, 22, 31-34
block diagram, 22
circulator, 44-45
components, 26-56
control, 56-57
core chip, 34
cross-section, 109
for defense radars, 57
defined, 3
diagram for gain/loss analysis, 25
driver amplifier, 22, 34-38
duplexer, 22
early development efforts, 23
efficiency, maximizing, 57
functions, 21
heat dissipation by components in, 153-54
heat issues and solutions for, 145-65
highly integrated packaging, 226-27
introduction to, 21-23
key electrical parameters, 194-200
limiter, 45-49
lowest frequency for resonance, 110
low-noise amplifier, 22, 49-56
materials for, 115-41
microstrip feed-thru for, 201
MMIC-based, 23-24
next-generation, 219-28
performance requirements, 24-26
phase shifter, 21, 22, 28-31
power amplifier, 22, 38-44
power conditioning, 56-57
purchased parts, 213
reliability, 22-23
resonances, 109-12
semiconductors for, 61-83
signal integrity issues, 85-112
single-chip, 220-21
specifications, 192-94
T/R switches, 26-28
T/R module testing, 194-201
automated test equipment (ATE), 199-200
key electrical parameters, 194-99
key parameter requirements, 199-200
T/R switches, 26-28
Validation chips, 164, 165
Vertical transition interconnects, 107-9
Visual yield, 208
Voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR), 47-49, 195
Wafer diameter, 209
Wafer fabrication process, 74-78
air bridges, 77-78
dielectric deposition, 76-77
electroplating, 77
gate formation, 75-76
isolation, 74
ohmic contacts, 74-75
yield, 207-9
See also Semiconductors
Wafer-scale phased arrays, 222
Weather
AESA for, 16
precipitation, 12, 14
radar equation for, 11-16
radar target, 12
scattering mechanism for, 12
Wedge bonds, 88, 180
Wire bonding
diagram, 180
fusing current, 181
in T/R module manufacturing process, 179-81
types of, 179
Wire bonds
ball-and-stitch, 87, 88
formation of, 87-88
high-fidelity model, 90-93
inductor equivalent circuit, 91
low-fidelity model, 89-90
manufacturing steps for, 89
methods, 87-88
modeling, 88-93
simplified approach to, 90
wedge, 88, 180



