



Travel Every Day
Transforming Your Life with the Trip of a Lifetime
John Ennis







Copyright © 2015 John Ennis
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 1502584093
ISBN 13: 9781502584090
Library of Congress Control Number: 2014917718
CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform
North Charleston, South Carolina







Dedicated to my wife, Ruth Brown, for her perfect companionship at home and abroad; to my friend John Ebel-Davies, for opening my eyes to international travel; to my brother, Kevin Ennis, and my friends Matt Hammond, Betina Piqueras-Fiszman, Thierry Worch, for providing valuable feedback throughout this book's development; and to my parents, Daniel and Patricia Ennis, for encouraging me to explore the world.







Why This Book Exists

I have a full-time job, a house that I've invested a lot into, and a large group of family and friends who are connected in various ways to Richmond, Virginia. Thus it's a challenge for me to travel for any extended period of time. But I also love to experience new cultures and to expand my awareness of the world—this book contains my solution to the problem of how to travel every day when you're connected to a specific place and can't practically take to the road full time. I've used the principles of this book to enjoy numerous international trips and to study a multitude of languages; they reflect years of experiences and lessons learned, sometimes with great effort or cost. My hope in writing this book is to share with you these lessons so that you can form your own experiences—with minimal effort and cost. This book represents a great passion for me, and it's my pleasure to be your guide as you learn to Travel Every Day.
How to Use This Book

The Travel Every Day approach has three main components, the first of which is learning extensively about the culture of your destination. Language learning will be a key aspect of this component, which we'll cover in depth. In particular, I expect that you'll be happy to discover that language learning is much easier than you were led to believe in high school. The second component of Travel Every Day is the extensive planning process that leads up to actually taking your trip, and the third component is your actual trip. The secret of Travel Every Day is that by using your trip to motivate your cultural learning, planning, and education, you'll not only make your trip fantastic, but you'll mentally travel to your destination every day.
To get the most out of this book, I recommend you read it in its entirety before finalizing your travel plans. Each chapter begins with a portion of the fictional journey of Mark and Hannah MacDaniel, who plan a trip to Holland using the Travel Every Day approach. Their story will help make the concepts of the book more concrete. The story of Mark and Hannah is then interspersed with my own advice on how to best plan your trip. At the end of each chapter is an exercise, called a "Mental Voyage," that I recommend you do at the time of reading, with the exception of the tenth and final Mental Voyage, which should be done after your trip is completed.
A Note on the Pictures in This Book

All of the pictures contained in this book were taken either by me or by my friends on some of the various trips I've been fortunate enough to experience. None of us have any special photographic training—this is just how beautiful the world is. We hope you enjoy the show!







Contents

Chapter 1      A New Beginning
Chapter 2      Window Shopping: Picking Your Destination
Chapter 3      Two Heads are Better than One: Finding a Quality Travel Partner
Chapter 4      When and How: The Challenges of Time and Finance
Chapter 5      Language Learning: A Natural Activity
Chapter 6      Commitment: The Magical Effect of Buying Plane Tickets
Chapter 7      Preparing for Your Trip: Travel Every Day
Chapter 8      A Trip of a Lifetime: Making the Most of Your Amazing Experience
Chapter 9      Bumps in the Road: Overcoming Challenges Along the Way
Chapter 10    The Journey Continues: New Directions or Revisit Every Day?
Appendix 1   Recommended Resources
Appendix 2   Picture Index







Preface
I'll always remember my first major international trip. It transformed my life, but I only begrudgingly agreed to go. My friend John was planning a graduation trip to England, Italy, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, and the Czech Republic for himself and several of his friends. I was finishing up a graduate degree in mathematics, and the last thing I wanted to do was think about anything other than my June 4 defense date. John invited me to join him on his adventure, and I declined. Unperturbed, John asked if I would take him to shop for a backpack for his trip, and I agreed. The store he wanted to go to was an hour away and, the entire way there, John did nothing but talk about his plans. He told me about the café culture in Rome, the art in Florence, and the architecture in Barcelona. He told me he couldn't wait to ride a bicycle along a canal in Amsterdam. Although my parents are from Ireland, and I had lived in Ireland when I was very young, I had never been out of the country as an adult and I didn't appreciate what John was talking about. What I could appreciate, though, was his enthusiasm. John is a very excitable person, but his excitement in this case exceeded anything I'd seen before from him. As our drive went on, I began to think John might be on to something. By the time he began to shop for his backpack, I was close to being sold on joining him, and when we walked out of the store together on that beautiful, sunny afternoon, I had more than a new backpack of my own; I had also begun to open a door that would eventually allow an unbelievable amount of life into my world.
I'll always be grateful to John for helping me open that door. Traveling internationally is, in my opinion, one of life's most enriching activities. Since that amazing trip with John, I've traveled internationally numerous times and have made traveling a major part of my life. Every trip I've been on has taught me lessons—some major, some minor, but all important to some degree. In particular, I've learned that planning a trip to an international destination and then organizing my life around the preparation for that trip, partly by learning the language of my destination, helps complete me as a person and connect me to the world. Every day, for me, is a little journey to my next destination, and this fact has made my life immeasurably more enjoyable. And even better, this enjoyment has been magnified when I've been able to include people I love on these journeys.
This book aims to do for you what my friend John did for me. I want to help you open the door to the world, and it's my pleasure to share what I've learned with you.
John Ennis







Chapter 1
A New Beginning

Travel is more than the seeing of sights. It is the change that goes on, deep and permanent, in the ideas of living.
—Miriam Beard








8:35 a.m., July 1, Richmond, VA
What could Mark do? He had felt stuck in his life for some time now. He was of course fortunate to have a dependable job as a software engineer and a loving wife in Hannah, but he had been feeling for a while that something was missing. He just wasn't satisfied with his life of writing software code, going to the gym, coming home to eat dinner with Hannah, then watching TV and falling asleep. For some time now, he had felt like a passenger in his life instead of the driver. As he arrived at his desk that morning at Integrated Software Solutions, he put his coffee down and flipped the month from June to July on his office calendar. July 1—another half year completed. He looked at the calendar, with its images of palm trees and sunshine, with a kind of longing. His life had been the same for too long.

9:10 a.m., July 1, Midlothian, VA
Hannah was just as unhappy as Mark, if not more so. Her job at The Sophisticated Gourmet Catering was comfortable, but it wasn't fulfilling. She loved her husband, Mark, whom she had met in college almost ten years before, but she felt their relationship was getting stale. And though they needed some new energy in their lives, they didn't yet feel ready to have children.
As Hannah removed her bag at work that morning, her boss, Angela, came up to her and said, "Hannah, there's someone new working with us today." She pointed to a tall and distinguished gentleman already at work inside the kitchen. He looked up and motioned a kind of greeting to Hannah. "His name is Jan de Groot, and he's very nice. He's an old friend from the Netherlands who's visiting for a few weeks. He'll be helping out in the kitchen while he's here."
"Well, this is something new," thought Hannah as she went over to meet the kindly-looking gentleman. "I'm Hannah MacDaniel," Hannah said. "Should I call you Mr. de Groot?"
"That won't be necessary," the gentleman said with a smile. "Jan will be fine. I'd shake your hand, but as you can see, I'm covered with flour! And I should really get back to the biscuits. But I'm very pleased to make your acquaintance!"
Hannah smiled to herself as she went back to talk to Angela and receive her assignments for the day. There was something very pleasant and light about Jan. He seemed so happy. Hannah had heard that Dutch people were very friendly—what could she do to bring some of that lightness into her own life?

In the United States, vacations are often something separate from regular life. These vacations are enjoyable, but too often they fade in our memories without leaving any lasting effects on our lives. For example, before I learned to Travel Every Day, I visited the Bahamas twice with no discernible effect on my worldview: it was a nice beach, nothing more nor less. My goal in writing this book is to show you that much more is possible. I want to help you plan and enjoy an international trip in such a way that 1) every day becomes a trip to your destination, 2) the trip itself becomes a life-changing experience, and 3) the memory of the trip stays with you forever, allowing you to mentally revisit your destination whenever you choose.







Mental Voyage #1



Close your eyes and think of three countries that you've either always wanted to visit or would love to return to. In each case, imagine yourself in a particular place in each country, whether that place might be the top of the Eiffel Tower, a rooftop restaurant in Athens with a view of the Parthenon, or a spice market in Morocco. As you imagine yourself in each country, move through each of your five senses. Begin with seeing the sights around you. Then notice the way the air feels on your skin—is it hot or cool, humid or dry? Notice the sounds in the air, either of nature or of the native speakers. Imagine that you understand the words you hear in the native language. Is there music? And finally, absorb the foreign smells and tastes, allowing yourself to become fully immersed in the experience.









Chapter 2
Window Shopping: Picking Your Destination

Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines, sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover.
—Mark Twain








Precariously balancing the groceries on her knee, Hannah managed to get her keys out and open the door just in time to prevent disaster. As she put the groceries down on the kitchen counter, she remembered that Mark was at the gym tonight and wouldn't be home for another hour. She decided to hop on the Internet and find some vacation ideas to bring up with him when he got home.

The destination that you choose for your travels will be very important. As you Travel Every Day, you'll immerse yourself in the culture and language of your chosen destination, so you'll want to be sure to choose a place that captures your full attention. Here are some key questions to ask yourself:


If I could have been born anywhere else in the world, where would I have liked it to have been?
What foreign scenery in movies, on television, or in books has really moved me?
Which foreign characters in movies, on television, or in books have I been most inspired, entertained, or impressed by?
Which foreign cuisine, drink, music, dance, or literature appeals to me most?
When I close my eyes and imagine myself in a foreign country, where do I find myself?


For example, here are my answers to these questions:


Somewhere in Scandinavia, such as Denmark. For this reason, when I had the opportunity to visit Copenhagen for work, I leapt at the chance and spent the months before my trip preparing so that the three days I had there would have the maximum effect possible on me. And, as is always the case with Travel Every Day, I had a wonderful trip and connected with the Danes I met in a way that simply would not have been possible without my preparation.
Two movies that have always captivated me have been To Catch a Thief and Roman Holiday. The first of these inspired me to take a day trip to Monaco from Nice, to glimpse the high-life on the French Riviera, while the second is currently inspiring a trip with my wife to Rome.
As a child, I was impressed by the hardiness of the Swiss children growing up in the Alps in the cartoon Belle and Sebastian. Although I've visited Switzerland, I have yet to fully experience the Swiss Alps—for this reason, I plan to someday hike the Haute Route in Switzerland and France with my wife.
Brazilian dance and music has always appealed to me, and when I visited Rio de Janeiro I made a point to spend a night dancing Samba. Being surrounded by the energy of the crowd and the musicians opened me to a wild enthusiasm I hadn't felt before.
I will always cherish the memories of traveling through Tuscany by train with my friends following my graduation from graduate school. It is partly for this reason that I'm planning the return trip to Italy now that I mentioned above.


A well-conceived and well-planned trip will affect you on a deep level, and you have an opportunity to decide in which way you'd like to be affected. For example, would you like to be more relaxed, like the Brazilians; more social, like the Portuguese; more sophisticated, like the French; or more easygoing, like the Italians? If you're not sure, here are some things you can do to help guide your choice:


Rent a number of movies set in the various places you're considering, preferably in the languages of the destinations. For now you can watch with subtitles, but eventually you'll be watching movies like these in the original language only. Keep that fact in mind as you watch to help guide your decision.
Visit the bookstore near you with the largest travel section you can find, and allow yourself to freely wander. Relax and notice if there's any area in the travel section that you're naturally drawn to.
Visit the music section of your local bookstore or use the Internet to sample music from the various countries under consideration. Be sure the music is in the language of the country. Determine if any one style of music particularly appeals to you.


At the end of this search, if you still aren't able to pick one country out of several that you might be interested in, write down your list of destinations and keep it in mind as you read the remaining chapters of this book. As you learn more and more of the techniques that follow, you'll find yourself being naturally drawn to one destination over the others. Just pay attention to the direction in which your mind tends to move, and you'll know your destination soon enough.







Mental Voyage #2



In this voyage we're going to determine a list of three potential destinations. For this it will be useful to create a travel journal to begin to catalogue the creation of your trip. Eventually you'll use this journal to help create your itinerary and to make more particular plans for your trip. But for now, find an appropriate notebook and go through the various steps described in this chapter to narrow down your choice of destinations to three. Write as much or as little as you like in your travel journal, but be sure to write something about each possible destination. As you write about each place, be sure to use the virtualization techniques described in Mental Voyage #1 to make your thinking about each destination as real and as personal as possible. To add to the richness of the experience, you may choose to decorate your travel journal.









Chapter 3
Two Heads are Better than One: Finding a Quality Travel Partner

A journey is best measured in friends, rather than miles.
—Tim Cahill








Mark was so exhausted he could barely hold his keys to let himself in. At least it was Hannah's turn to cook; he guessed something delicious awaited him on the other side of the door. Opening it, the aromas that greeted him told him that he was right. Even though Hannah had a degree in political science, she had long had an interest in cooking and seemed to always be learning new things at work. From the smell throughout the apartment, Mark guessed that Hannah had made some sort of meatloaf. "Wow, that's great," he thought to himself. "The perfect postworkout meal."
"Honey, I'm home!" he called out as he set his things down next to their living room sofa.
"Hey, sweetheart." Hannah smiled as she walked out of the kitchen. "You'll never guess what I made for dinner." She beamed.
"Meatloaf?" Mark guessed.
"Not exactly, but close," Hannah teased. She seemed happier than usual. "Guess again."
"Beef stew?"
"No, but closer." Hannah noticed Mark was tiring of the game, so she gave in. "I'll tell you. It's a traditional Dutch dish called stamppot. It's a kind of stew made from potatoes, vegetables, and bacon. I got the recipe off the Internet. We were out of bacon, so I used beef, and we didn't have any sauerkraut, like it's usually made with, so I used spinach instead. But we had carrots and a lot of the seasonings, and I have to say, it's really good. I can't wait for you to try it!"
Hannah's energy was a little high for Mark in his postworkout daze, but he loved her very much and could tell this meal had some special value to her. So he smiled, summoned as much enthusiasm as he could muster, and said, "That sounds great, sweetie. Let me just put a few things away, and then I'll be happy to try it with you."

As with most activities in life, traveling is usually enriched by the involvement of someone close to you. Having a travel partner who shares your values means having a partner with whom you can easily share new experiences. Although typical vacation traveling is already enriched by the involvement of others, the techniques of Travel Every Day will make your travel partner immeasurably more valuable, and hence your choice of travel partner immeasurably more important. For example, by finding the right person to plan your trip with, you'll have someone with whom to practice learning a new language, to watch and discuss movies from the foreign culture that you've chosen, to discuss and plan the details of your upcoming amazing adventure, and to engage in many other activities that will be described in the pages to come. Although traveling alone can be valuable from the standpoint of personal development, the goal with Travel Every Day is to make every day a mental voyage to your destination, and you'll find this goal much easier to attain when you have someone to share it with. Together, you and your travel partner will create a miniature version of your destination here at home, both mentally and physically, and you'll find that every interaction between the two of you will bring the energy of your destination into your life now rather than later. Moreover, this effect will only increase as time goes on and the two of you become more comfortable with and knowledgeable about the language and culture of your destination.
Another benefit of having a well-chosen travel partner is that planning and conducting a life-changing trip together will connect you and your partner at a deeper level than you may have otherwise thought possible. The fundamentals of culture, such as language learning, food, traditions, art and music appreciation, participation in festivals and dance, and so on, are all central components of what it means to be human. As such, sharing these experiences with your partner will bring the two of you together in a fundamental way. You will connect with your partner through your daily mental voyages to your destination during the planning period, through the sharing of rich cultural experiences during the trip itself, and finally, through the shared memories that you'll be able to enjoy together for the rest of your lives.
Now, you may have noticed that throughout the discussion so far, I've consistently used the term "partner" and not "partners." A very reasonable question is "What about traveling with multiple people?" The response is that while traveling with a group can be beneficial, and can even provide an additional level of security, depending on your destination, traveling with multiple people also adds a level of complexity to the trip that can sometimes create a less than ideal planning and traveling environment. Two key questions are how close the friendships in the proposed travel group are, and how skilled the members of the group are at working together. If you do decide to plan a group trip, be sure that everyone has the following:


Shared values and interests
Similar travel styles
Financial reliability and trust in the other members of the group


To have shared values means that everyone is interested in the same general focus for the trip. Whether that means everyone is interested in art galleries, enjoying the local cuisine, learning about the local history, or participating in local festivals is for the group members to decide. Everyone needs to be on the same general page, though, as to the goals of the trip, and it's best to have a discussion about the group goals as soon as possible to make sure the trip develops a clear identity.
As for similar travel styles, everyone in the group needs to agree on the practical and functional components of the trip. For instance, does everyone in the group enjoy walking around the chosen destination as much as possible instead of taking taxis, or vice versa? The preferred type of accommodation should also be discussed. Later in this book, we'll discuss lodging in detail, but at the very least, everyone in the group will need agree on the sleeping arrangements. Similarly, eating preferences have to be considered. For example, it would be challenging for a vegan to travel through Portugal with someone who has a strong interest in enjoying fresh-caught fish and local cheese tarts. It's very possible that both travelers will end up less than satisfied and that the trip will fall short of its potential, so it might be better for these travelers to brainstorm additional travel plans until a mutually exciting option is found. Regardless of all these particulars though, take your time to choose travel partners and you'll be rewarded for your patience many times over.







Mental Voyage #3



Who will your travel partner or partners be? If you have any doubt, take out your travel journal and list three potential candidates. Arrange times to discuss the idea of arranging a trip together with each person. As you make your list, write down the benefits and challenges you expect to arise from planning and conducting a trip with each person. When you meet with each potential partner, talk about where he or she would like to go and see how closely his or her ideas correspond to yours. If the two of you find common ground, find out if your potential partner is interested in learning about the culture and language of your destination. Explain that this trip is going to be more involved than a typical vacation, and determine to what extent you're in agreement with each of your potential partners before you make your decision. If you do find multiple partners with whom you expect to travel well, arrange for a group meeting to explore the possibility of a group trip.









Chapter 4
When and How: The Challenges of Time and Finance

Money is only a tool. It will take you wherever you wish, but it will not replace you as the driver.
—Ayn Rand








"That was delicious, sweetheart," Mark said as he brought his dishes to the sink. "I can't believe that you just whipped that up. How did you even know to look for—what did you call it, 'stampa'?—recipes?"
"It's called stamppot, baby, and I looked it up because today at work there was a gentleman named Jan de Groot visiting us from the Netherlands. He's a delightful man—so relaxed but dignified at the same time. He started telling me about Haarlem, a little town in the Netherlands where he's from, and that got me thinking that maybe visiting the Netherlands wouldn't be such a bad idea. So when I got home I started looking around the Internet, and it wasn't long before I came across a picture of stamppot. I downloaded a recipe, and voila!"
"Visiting the Netherlands?" Mark thought to himself. This was new. Mark and Hannah hadn't been out of the country since their honeymoon in the Bahamas seven years ago. "I suppose that means my passport is still valid," Mark thought, but this wasn't at all what he had expected from Hannah when he had come home that evening. Normally Hannah liked to move in little, careful steps through life, and if anything, she was the one in their relationship who tried to slow things down. Where was this all coming from?
Mark realized he didn't know anything about the Netherlands. He had heard of it, of course, and he was pretty sure that was where Dutch people were from, but that was about the extent of his knowledge. "When were you thinking we might go, Hannah?" Mark asked. "And how would we pay for it? A trip to the Netherlands sounds pretty expensive." Mark was interested, but he had a lot of questions.

Typically speaking, the two main challenges travelers face are the challenges of time and finance—the main strength of Travel Every Day is that it allows you to simultaneously overcome both of these challenges. By finding value and enjoyment during the planning portion of your trip, you'll travel in a very real way from the moment you begin to plan. And by planning a trip of a lifetime, you're placing a beacon in the future that will draw you forward and help you to make more focused choices throughout your life, freeing both time and money for more fulfilling use.
Practically speaking, traveling internationally can be expensive. And for the typical traveler, it is expensive, because the vacation occurs outside of regular life and the costs have to be counted outside of the regular budget. But when you Travel Every Day, the considerations are different—you'll be traveling to your destination for some portion of every day of your regular life. Using the techniques I'll describe in the coming chapters, you'll be able to effect this transformation not only mentally but physically as well, literally turning your home into a little part of your chosen destination. Thus you'll be enjoying your vacation from the time you begin planning, which allows you to distribute costs over a long planning period.
To make this point more clearly, let's use a concrete example: A ten-day trip for two people to Milan, Italy, with a standard-fare airline ticket, eating at high-end restaurants, staying at a luxury hotel in the city center, taking in world-class museums, relaxing in street-side cafés, visiting Da Vinci's Last Supper, and attending performances at the world-renowned La Scala opera house, will cost about $7,000—an admittedly staggering number for many travelers. While this number can be reduced using tips described later in this book, let's use this number as a worst-case scenarios for our calculations. Although $7,000 is a large figure, the mathematics change when we plan for this trip for two years. When we divide $7,000 by the two people involved and the 730 days of planning, we find that this life-changing trip to Milan, made especially rich by the ability to speak Italian and the appreciation of Italian culture that you'll develop, costs less than five dollars a day. And, unlike ordinary savings, in which we have to delay gratification while we build resources, with Travel Every Day every one of these preparation days can be a little trip to Italy—you can enjoy your trip many times over while you save!
A second way that Travel Every Day helps you to meet the challenges of time and finances is psychological. As a general life principle, committing to a large goal has a galvanizing effect and tends to draw all other aspects of life into focus. Planning a trip of a lifetime is no different: you'll find that once you place the trip on your calendar and begin to imagine yourself as already being there, life will take on an additional level of meaning, and you'll make more focused use of both time and money. If you know, for example, that you have a week-long trip to Rio de Janeiro planned that includes participation in the New Year's Eve celebration on Copacabana beach, climbing the Pão de Açúcar, and visiting a coffee plantation to taste coffee that was grown and roasted on premises, you'll find it much easier throughout the year to avoid making impulse purchases. In fact, depending on your current spending habits, this psychological effect could actually allow the trip to pay for itself.
The impact of travel planning on time and self-management can also be profound. Your life will be richer as a result of the new culture and language you'll be absorbing. Your relationship with your travel partner will become more textured with every day of preparation that passes. You may find that many of the distractions that may have once consumed your spare time, such as watching television, will lose their appeal and gradually fade out of your life. You'll be motivated and stimulated to learn more about your destination, to further expand your appreciation for its culture, and to develop your understanding of its language. As a result, you'll find yourself more fully engaged in your life, making choices throughout your life that serve you and your goals more effectively.
A final benefit of the Travel Every Day program—and the most important one, in my opinion—is that as a result of this increased level of engagement in your life, you'll be happier. In fact, travel planning is ideally suited for achieving a pleasurable state of relaxed concentration. Every aspect of it, whether it involves learning about history or music or cuisine, relates to fundamental human pursuits and, as a result, every human being has the capacity to successfully plan and conduct a life-changing trip.
The most fundamental human activity, and one that many people mistakenly think they have little or no talent for, is language learning. In the next chapter, we'll learn why many people feel they have no talent for language learning, why that feeling is misguided, and how language learning can become productive and enjoyable.







Mental Voyage #4



The goal of this voyage is to create an additional five dollars a day to make your trip possible. In your travel journal, make a list of all your optional expenditures and take a hard look at what is actually adding value to your life. If you're reluctant to exchange any of these items for the life-changing experience that awaits you in another country, then make a list of all the skills you have, large and small, that would allow you to create an additional five dollars a day. You could also look around your house and consider which items might have value to others but aren't contributing to your life any longer. And, as a final step, open an additional savings account to accumulate the resources you'll need for your trip. And regardless of the particulars of your finances, whenever saving becomes demanding, be sure to visualize how you'll use the money you're saving during your upcoming trip!









Chapter 5
Language Learning: A Natural Activity

Language shapes the way we think, and determines what we can think about.
—Benjamin Lee Whorf








"I'll tell you what, baby. Let's figure out the details of when we're going to go and how we're going to pay for it tomorrow." Hannah smiled. "Right now I just want to relax and enjoy the idea. Why don't we hop on the Internet and look up some pictures of the Netherlands, just to see what we see? There's no point in sweating over details if we don't even like what we find."
Mark smiled to himself and thought that Hannah knew him pretty well. She knew he was likely to get himself worked up over whether or not they could afford the trip before he knew whether or not he wanted to go. She also knew that once he got worked up, he was likely to say no without knowing what he was saying no to. "On the other hand," Mark thought, "she knows that if she can get me excited about the idea, I'll find a way to make it happen." Mark smiled and thought to himself, "Hannah's smart."
"Okay, baby," Mark said. "I'm almost done with the dishes. Go ahead and find some websites, and I'll be there in a minute."
"Deal," Hannah replied as she hopped up and raced into their office. Once again Mark thought, "What's gotten into her?" He hadn't seen her so excited in a while. But it was good for him to see, and he had to admit that her excitement was starting to spread.

"Okay, sweetheart, I'm ready," Mark said as he entered the office, holding two cups of steaming tea. "And I made some chamomile tea for us to help us sleep later."
"Great!" Hannah enthused without turning around. She had already been at the computer for about ten minutes and seemed engrossed. "Check out what I found, Mark. It's a website that claims to be able to help us learn Dutch. It's called the Pimsleur method. I checked out the reviews on Amazon, and they were super!"
"Whoa, hold on," Mark laughed. "I thought we were just going to look at pictures of the Netherlands. I don't even know if I want to go there yet. And don't Dutch people usually speak English anyway?"
"Okay, you're right." Hannah realized she had been moving too fast. "Let's back up. I was looking at pictures and even watched a travel video before you got home. Let me show you what I found."
Mark pulled up a chair beside Hannah. He was so happy to see how energized she was by this whole idea. He still didn't know for sure how they would pay for this trip or when they would go, but just seeing Hannah so happy was reason enough for him to entertain the idea for now. She turned around and smiled at him, then started to show him pictures of beautiful canals, windmills, flowers, and art. As the night went on, the two of them began to learn about the Netherlands.
Mark was surprised to find that the Dutch had had a huge influence throughout the world, from serving as the world's bank to establishing colonies as far away as North America, South Africa, and Indonesia. Hannah had already been learning about Dutch cuisine, but she didn't know about the long brewing tradition in the Netherlands. Given Mark's fondness for beer, she was ecstatic to find that Dutch beer is internationally esteemed. The thought of the two of them sitting together at a canal-side café, sharing a beer together, appealed to them both tremendously. And neither of them had appreciated just how famous Dutch art is. From Rembrandt to Vermeer to Van Gogh, the list of great Dutch painters seemed to never end. But what really sold Mark on the idea of visiting was a series of travel videos they watched together on YouTube. In every video, the atmosphere was one of happy, relaxed orderliness. "Tolerance" was a word that kept coming up, along with terms like "easygoing," "friendly," and "open."
"Okay," Mark thought to himself, "this is what we've needed." His own excitement was starting to blend with Hannah's. "Hannah's right." He nodded to himself. "We can figure out the details of how to make this happen tomorrow. But we need this."
"All right, Hannah," Mark said out loud, "I'm sold. Let's plan to do this and let's make it happen." Hannah burst into a huge smile, jumped out of her seat, and threw her arms around Mark. He laughed, holding Hannah out in front of him to see her beaming. "We need to go to bed," he said, smiling, "but before we do, why don't you show me that language-learning site you found earlier? If we're going to do this, we might as well do it all the way."

A central component of Travel Every Day is language learning. For many people, the idea that another language can be learned is unbelievable. Especially for Americans, language learning has typically meant attempts to memorize verb tables and obscure grammar rules. And after years of this painful process, if students are fortunate enough to visit a country in which their studied language is spoken, their experience is typically that everyone speaks so quickly they can't participate in any reasonably complex conversation.
These observations are not new. In fact, to those who have grown up around multiple languages, the problems of many American students seem perplexing. But in the United States, class after class of bright and curious students become convinced that language learning is difficult, when it is actually the most natural activity in which their brains could engage.
The key difficulty with language learning in the United States is the classroom emphasis on reading and writing, instead of on speaking and listening. Although we as humans have some capacity to read and write in an abstract setting, we have a much greater capacity to speak and listen in a social setting. As you'll find as learn your new language through conversations instead of through reading and writing, we in fact all have an innate talent for language learning, in much the same way that birds have an innate talent for flying or fish have for swimming.
The ideas above were articulated and supported in 1963 in a monograph entitled "Underachievement in Foreign Language Learning," by an American linguistic researcher named Paul Pimsleur. In this document, Dr. Pimsleur explained how the classic American language-learning approach is certain to produce students who believe that language learning is difficult, when in reality it's something we're all born to do. Fortunately, some of Dr. Pimsleur's ideas have started to appear in classrooms, with more and more classrooms adopting a social-based immersion style, but for those of us who attended school years ago, the mental damage was done, and now the main challenge for us is to believe that language learning is within our reach. With the remainder of this chapter, we'll lay out a program that an adult with little to no background in language learning can follow to attain a fundamental level of comfort with a new language and the basic skills needed to communicate effectively in a foreign country.
When beginning to learn a new language, the most important consideration is enjoyment—if you aren't having fun, you won't be motivated for the daily practice that's so important for progress. For the same reason, it needs to be easy to find the time for learning. So let's begin with a discussion of how language learning can most easily be scheduled before returning to our first topic, which is how to make sure the learning will be enjoyable.
As far as finding time to study language, there is fortunately a happy intersection between practical time limitations and our brains' preferred mode of language learning. Specifically, our brains want, first and foremost, to learn languages verbally. Combining this consideration with the fact that the average American spends close to an hour every day commuting, it's clear that the car is an ideal place to engage in language learning1. That said, a few additional considerations are in order:


Most "learn in your car" methods are essentially worthless, in my experience. Typically these methods consist of little more than repeating some phrases after the speaker or providing phrases when prompted. In addition to being boring, such methods ignore the fact that language exists as a tool for social interaction.
Driving safety should be the highest priority when learning while driving. This means that both hands need to be on the wheel as much as possible, and the lesson should not be paused at any time. Some methods will encourage listeners to pause the recording when they feel it necessary, but this is a bad idea, firstly because pausing the recording takes attention off the road, and you need to be alive to go on your trip. Secondly, pausing the recording is not consistent with real-life experience: Once you arrive at your travel destination, you'll find that no matter how well you've prepared, you won't understand many of the words you hear, but responses will still be expected in reasonable time. You won't be able to press pause on life to formulate an answer, but instead will need to make educated guesses. Fortunately, with the right kind of practice, you'll find yourself correct a surprising amount of the time.
As awkward as it might feel, you really must speak out loud when you're learning a new language. The importance of this consideration can't be overstated. An important part of language learning is training your mouth and voice to make new sounds in an intelligible way. This is a physical skill that can only be learned through practice.


Now, as for the actual process to follow when learning a new language, before you read anything in your new language, I recommend that you investigate whether there is a Pimsleur audio course available in that language2. Depending on which language it is, Pimsleur will have anywhere from ten to one hundred lessons available, unless your desired language is obscure. In fact, if you're on the fence regarding your choice of destination, you may wish to allow the availability of lessons to help guide your final decision of where to go. Also, both Pimsleur.com and PimsleurAudio.com offer the first lesson of each language as free samples, which can be useful both as an informational and an inspirational tool.
I need to warn you, however, that when you take your first Pimsleur lesson, you may be in for an uncomfortable experience. The lesson will be conducted entirely using audio, and you won't have anything to look at. The result might be that you feel you have nothing to hold on to mentally. This feeling is completely normal and is 100 percent a result of being raised with Western-style education, where reading and writing are emphasized to an extreme. A natural feeling that many people have when first beginning Pimsleur is that they are "visual learners," and that they need to see what they are learning in order to learn it. I myself had these exact thoughts, in fact. While these thoughts may be true for other more visual disciplines like mathematics, language learning is fundamentally an auditory activity. Once self-professed visual learners allow themselves to make sounds, even if they're incorrect, they find that their brains embrace this natural approach. While it may take several lessons to wake up the language-learning centers in their brains, these centers can and do wake up. Thereafter, language learning occurs much more quickly and enjoyably than in previous attempts.
Since it's possible that you'll be mentally uncomfortable during your first lesson, I recommend that you make yourself as physically comfortable as possible—for instance, by either lying on your bed or your couch—and that you do your best to remove all distractions. Don't do the lessons in your car just yet. Instead set aside thirty minutes, find a relaxing place in your home, turn off your phone, and tell the others around you to please give you some space for a little while.
Once you've made arrangements and are ready in a relaxed environment, start your Pimsleur lesson. Pimsleur will take you through imaginary conversations in your chosen language. You'll immediately learn to ask people if they speak English, to say excuse me, and to say yes and no. Each lesson is thirty minutes, and during each lesson, you'll only learn about ten new words. You'll learn to master those words, however, both in pronunciation and in use. Over the course of your many Pimsleur lessons, you'll first become comfortable participating in elementary, practical conversations before moving on to other common social interactions. As a result, you'll gain a high level of proficiency in the basics of the language and, when your Pimsleur study is complete, you'll find it very easy to assimilate more advanced concepts later.
Since the auditory nature of the Pimsleur method may seem unusual, here is some additional advice. First, be willing to go to the next lesson even when you haven't completely mastered the previous one. Many of the concepts will be reviewed at the start of the next lesson, and giving incorrect answers is an essential part of learning. Additionally, by pushing forward to a new lesson, you'll be keeping your learning fresh and interesting. This will keep you engaged and make your learning fun. A second, seemingly contradictory, but actually complementary piece of advice is to be willing to go back and review past lessons once a new lesson is completed. This can be very helpful, since an integral part of language learning is developing skill in making the foreign sounds correctly. Making sounds is a motor skill that, just like any other motor skill, requires repetition to master.
To resolve this seeming paradox of moving forward but still practicing past lessons, I recommend a technique called "backstitching". The idea of backstitching is that, after you complete a new lesson for the first time, you go back and repeat at least one earlier lesson before advancing to the next new lesson. For example, you might do the lessons in the following order, with new lessons underlined:
1 2 1 3 2 4 3 5 4 6...
Backstitching allows you to review completed material without ever doing the same lesson twice in a row. This approach keeps the lessons surprising and makes them more fun. It also prevents rote memorization and encourages your active involvement. If you need additional review, you can always go back further in the sequence once you've completed a new lesson. For instance, suppose you were following the above plan, but felt after lesson four that you needed more review. Then you could go back further and follow the sequence below, with new lessons underlined again:
4 2 3 5 3 4 6 4 5 7...
This particular approach repeats every lesson three times. Since you're the only one who can determine how much review you need while keeping your learning fresh, I suggest that you experiment with different backstitching plans—just keep in mind the general principle that you'd like to avoid doing the same lesson twice in a row.
To complete our discussion of the Pimsleur audio lessons, I strongly encourage you to complete at least one lesson a day, with the lessons even done in pieces if necessary. For example, if your drive to work is only fifteen minutes, as mine is, you can do half of a lesson on the way there, and half on the way back. This is the approach I personally follow. By making sure to complete one lesson a day, you'll allow your brain to consolidate the information every night. In fact, you may even begin to have dreams in which you're speaking your new language. In any case, though, when you do at least one lesson a day, you'll soon notice a dramatic change in your comfort level.

"Goedenavond, sweetheart. I'm home!" Hannah set her bags down as she closed the door to the apartment behind her. It had now been three weeks since she and Mark had begun to plan their trip to the Netherlands. Hannah was still enjoying the fact that she could now greet her husband with the Dutch version of "good evening."
"Goedenavond, baby," Mark replied as he appeared from the kitchen, making sure to make his "g" sound like an "h" coming from the back of his throat. The sounds of Dutch were hard to make sometimes, but he was getting better at them. Practicing every day on the way to and from work was making a big difference. "You're home earlier than I expected. Didn't you have your women's group class tonight?"
"It was cancelled, and to be honest, I was glad. There's so much going on right now, I could use the extra evening just to relax. How was your day?"
"Heel goed," Mark replied with a smile, knowing Hannah would giggle at hearing him saying "very good" in Dutch. "Here, let me help you with your things." Mark took the bags from Hannah's feet and started to bring them into the bedroom, where she could sort them out later.
"Dank u wel, meneer!" Hannah called in after him. "Thank you very much, sir," was probably a little formal for her to say to her husband, but it was what she had learned so far, and it felt good to say. Today had been Jan de Groot's last day in town, and he had highly praised Hannah's new skill. According to Jan, Hannah's pronunciation was excellent, and he had no trouble understanding her.
But what Hannah was happiest about was how Mark had taken to learning Dutch himself. Hannah had studied Spanish in college, so she had some background in languages. But Mark had only barely managed to fake his way through high school Latin, and things had gotten worse since then. He hadn't studied languages at all in college, and it had been a challenge getting him to even try learning Dutch now. But he had been a good sport about it eventually, especially after Hannah made a special meal of stamppot, Dutch apple tart, and imported Dutch beer. He realized that this trip was important to Hannah, so he made time to try the first lesson one weekend, did it a second time, and then started doing the lessons in his car. He seemed to be getting more and more confident with his Dutch, and it was really fun when the two of them had a chance to share their new skills with each other. Hannah was ecstatic to be doing something special with Mark again. She loved him so much, and it had been a long time since they had connected over a common activity like this.
"Pardon, mevrouw." Mark pulled Hannah out of her reverie with a too-formal "excuse me, miss." Then he asked her if she would like something to eat: "Zou u iets willen eten?" It took Hannah a second to process what he had asked, but then she smiled and replied, "Ja, zeker!" meaning, "Yes, certainly!"
"Well then, come on, sweetheart. I could use your help in the kitchen. We're taking a break from Dutch food tonight, and I'm making pasta. Someday, I suppose, we'll learn Italian, and then we'll finally know how to say the names of those noodles!"
"Yes, someday," Hannah thought, quickly unbuttoning her jacket, eager to spend the evening with her husband. A whole new world was opening up to her.

There is of course more to language learning than completing all of the Pimsleur audio lessons in your chosen language. The Pimsleur recordings will give you excellent pronunciation as well as a level of comfort, but you'll need additional studies to reach conversational fluency. In addition, although reading and writing are not as important as speaking and listening, they will still be important on your trip for reading menus and signs. The remainder of this chapter will discuss these two goals: reaching conversational fluency and functional literacy.
For conversational fluency, you'll need to understand grammar more explicitly than Pimsleur will teach you. But having completed Pimsleur, your comfort in your new language will make the grammar much easier to learn. To keep learning auditorily, I recommend the Michel Thomas method for your next step. You'll start with the basics, but you'll find that the Michel Thomas method moves more quickly than Pimsleur and includes more technical detail.
During the Second World War, Michel Thomas found it necessary to learn several languages quickly in order to survive. Along the way, he developed his own system that he used first to become fluent in nine different languages, and later to prepare many prominent figures—such as Grace Kelly prior to her marriage to the prince of Monaco— for situations in which they would be required to speak a foreign language with a certain level of ease. Later in his long life, he made his system generally available, and I recommend it as the perfect follow-up to Pimsleur because of its emphasis on teaching grammatical structures within the context of practical sentences. At time of writing, the Michel Thomas method is currently available in twelve languages and is being extended to others as time goes on.
If the Michel Thomas method is not available in your chosen language, I recommend an online search using the following guidelilnes to identify your best options. First, avoid rote memorization as much as possible—your brain would much rather learn languages in context. Look for titles that refer to conversation, and be willing to start from the very beginning of a new technique. Most methods move more quickly than Pimsleur, so at worst you'll be reviewing only for a short time; in all likelihood, you'll be filling in gaps in your knowledge very quickly.
For reading, one fact that I haven't mentioned yet is that there are typically Pimsleur daily reading lessons that can be used once the tenth audio lesson has been completed. These lessons are a good place to start for basic literacy. The unique feature of the Pimsleur reading lessons is that they focus on matching the written symbols of the new language with the sounds that you've been learning to make, so when you begin, you'll be learning to say words without knowing what they mean. This may seem strange at first, but over time you'll come to appreciate the wisdom of the method, as your already very good pronunciation will become excellent. Each lesson takes about five minutes to complete, and if you're working with a partner, I recommend doing the lessons separately first and then reviewing them together. You can do the lessons one day and review the next, if finding time is a challenge.
Once you've completed all the Pimsleur reading lessons, you'll be in a strong position to begin a book and/or CD series, an online course such as duoLingo, or a computer-based program such as Fluenz. You may wonder, though, why I haven't discussed Rosetta Stone up to this point, given all the publicity surrounding it. The answer is that, while Rosetta Stone is valuable as a vocabularybuilding tool, it has a few limitations, in my opinion, that make it less than ideal for those starting in a new language. The first and most serious limitation is that from the first time you use Rosetta Stone, you'll see the words that you're learning to pronounce: if the language involves the Roman alphabet, this fact can interfere with the development of correct pronunciation in subtle ways. Although Rosetta Stone does have techniques in place to help with the development of a correct accent, it's better to never develop mispronunciations in the first place. And even when the Roman alphabet is not used, seeing the written word early in learning continues to place undue emphasis on reading and writing. The second limitation of Rosetta Stone is that it's not possible to teach the expression of important abstract concepts—such as "Do you speak English?"—using a picture-based approach until a fair amount of knowledge has been developed. And a third limitation which applies to any computer-driven course is that Rosetta Stone is mainly done on the computer, which can be time consuming and a source of eye strain for those who already work all day in front of a computer.
The last point I'll make regarding language learning is that, as you study your new language, you should actively allow yourself to be mentally transported to your destination while you learn. This one action will provide you with many benefits: you'll provide a context in which your brain can more easily learn your new language, you'll motivate yourself to study, and you'll practice directly for situations in which you'll one day find yourself—but most importantly, you'll be having fun. Language learning is a central component of the Travel Every Day technique and, as you study every day, you'll mental travel to your chosen destination. If you have a travel partner, speaking in your new language with him or her will only intensify this effect. In the next few chapters, we'll discuss the planning of your actual trip but, for now, you can start to imagine yourself as already there. Enjoy the trips!








Mental Voyage #5



For this exercise, log on to Pimsleur.com and click on the offer to try a free lesson. You'll be given a wide range of languages to pick from, so try several lessons if you feel so inspired. When trying these lessons, be sure to create an environment that will allow you to relax and concentrate. Based on what you learn in these experiments, you might adjust your choice of where to go. After you've sampled each language that interests you, make notes in your travel journal describing how each language felt to you. Was it smooth or halting? Was it romantic or rough or lighthearted? What did you like or dislike? Language contains the rhythm of culture, so assess your trial languages fully and carefully.









Chapter 6
Commitment: The Magical Effect of Buying Plane Tickets

Commitment unlocks the doors of imagination, allows vision, and gives us the right stuff to turn our dreams into reality.
—James Womack








"Are you sure this is a good idea?" Mark wondered aloud. "I don't even know if I can get off work."
"Mark, it's eleven months away. Just tell Jim that you'll be taking your vacation then. He's got plenty of time to adjust." Hannah was right, but Mark hadn't taken a week-long vacation in years, and he was nervous about committing to such a large block of time. What if something came up while he was away? Almost reading his mind, Hannah added, "And you can check your e-mail every morning too, sweetie, just in case. But no phone calls. That's where we have to draw the line. We'll be on vacation, after all! Now let's get back to picking flights."
It had been three months since Hannah and Mark had decided to go to the Netherlands. After looking into the seasonal temperatures, they had decided that late July or early August would be best. They had been tempted to go in the spring to watch the tulips bloom but, since Mark was worried about money, they had decided to push their plans back by a few months. Already, though, they were finding that the finances were going to work out. Hannah had picked up some extra hours catering on the weekends, and Mark had gotten a good response to an ad he'd posted at the local community college offering to tutor students in math and computer science. He was only doing about two hours a week, but he was putting all the money aside for their trip.
The biggest difference, though, had come from the commitment they made to each other to avoid impulse purchases. Historically, Mark had a tendency to accumulate books he didn't have time to read, and Hannah loved to start her days with a Starbucks mocha on the way to work. Since they had started planning their trip, however, they were both finding it relatively easy to only spend their money on essentials. It was a bit of a tough transition at first for Hannah to give up her mochas, but she told herself that, when she was in Amsterdam, she would have all the treats she wanted. And more than drinking mochas, she planned to eat plenty of chocolate. Ever since she had read about a store called Unlimited Delicious, where the chocolate was made on premises with flavors including rhubarb with candied ginger and caramel cayenne, Hannah would just close her eyes and imagine herself there.
And now here they were, in front of their computer, contemplating the "purchase itinerary" button on the checkout page of United. com. They had found a pair of reasonably priced tickets leaving on a Tuesday in mid-July and flying back just over a week later, on the following Wednesday. Mark had accumulated enough frequent-flier miles through traveling for work that they would be able to upgrade to business class using his miles together with an additional fee. Everything was lined up, but as they sat there together, ready to commit to the trip they had been planning for months, Mark was getting cold feet.

The biggest decision you'll make in planning your trip is the decision to buy your plane tickets. Once your tickets are bought, the rest of your plans will begin to fall into place and your trip will become sure to happen. For this reason it's not unusual for last-second doubts to appear just before the plane tickets are purchased. In order to help allay some of these potential psychological concerns, let's start with a discussion of how to find quality tickets. Once you're confident that the tickets you're about to buy are really the tickets you want, it'll become easier to make the commitment to move forward.
For starters, the Travel Every Day approach is best suited to purchasing tickets far in advance. This fact means that finding a low price, while important, is not the only consideration. You're planning a trip of a lifetime, so your comfort and convenience should be valued just as highly as price when tickets are purchased—if need be, the costs of your trip can just be distributed over a longer time period. For instance, suppose one itinerary involves a direct flight leaving in the late afternoon and returning in the midmorning, while a second involves multiple stopovers and connections. Even if the second itinerary is several hundred dollars cheaper, the extra energy and time spent in transit, together with the possibility of a missed connection and increased probability of lost luggage, may make the first itinerary a better choice for you even if it means delaying your trip by a few months to allow more time for your savings to accumulate. From the standpoint of enjoying your trip as fully as possible, I recommend making your travel as comfortable and convenient as possible. So with comfort and convenience in mind, here are some recommendations for booking your flights:


Determine if off-peak times of the year will be just as enjoyable as peak tourist times. This information can typically be obtained from guidebooks or on the Internet. Sometimes off-peak times are actually preferable, as they allow you a chance to see your destination in more of an everyday light, instead of when it is overrun with tourists. For instance, my wife and I once took a trip to Milan and Venice for Christmas and New Year's. It was a great chance to experience Italy without having to compete with crowds of fellow sightseers.
Use online tools such as Kayak, Adioso, and Google Flights to research the prices for trips of various lengths and at various times of the year 3. In some cases, you may be able to receive fare alerts when prices drop for a particular route. I also recommend a simple online search to learn which airlines fly directly to which airports, to aid you in your quest for savings.
Fly as directly as possible. This trip is going to be amazing, and you want to do everything in your power to make sure that the travel goes as smoothly as possible. The more connections you have, the greater the chance that a small delay will turn into a serious problem and that your luggage won't arrive with you.
Include a Saturday night in your trip, if possible. By including a Saturday night, you'll typically be charged a much less expensive excursion fare instead of a business fare. And in addition to flights often being less expensive on these days, the fact that the flights are less full means there will be greater upgrade availability.
Use airline miles or credit card points to buy or upgrade your tickets if possible. By choosing one airline to use whenever possible for both business and pleasure, and by obtaining the corresponding credit card for that airline, it's possible to accumulate a reasonable number of redeemable miles as time goes on. For example, my wife and I both use a United Mileage Plus Visa card wherever possible. Which credit card you choose will depend on practical considerations, such as which airlines service your local airport most thoroughly, but your choice should also be influenced by the quality of their frequent-flier programs. For more information on this topic, I recommend the online forum FlyerTalk. And finally, a word to the wise, unfortunately also based on my own experience—I recommend setting up a time every week where you log on and pay off the full balance of your card. It's very easy to lose track of spending with a credit card if you only pay it off once a month.



"I don't know, Hannah. Are we sure we want to do this? We could just save our money and go to the beach a few more times. You like the beach, right?"
Hannah was having trouble believing what she was hearing. Here they were, having put so much effort into learning about the Netherlands, and even going so far as to start learning Dutch, and Mark just couldn't bring himself to enter nineteen digits into the computer and click "purchase." Hannah started to pull away, not so much to punish Mark, but because she had to be alone. She was so hurt. She felt tears welling up in her eyes, and she didn't want Mark to see them. She wanted him to go because it was a chance for them to share something special together, a chance to do something different after so many years of stagnation. The last few months had been so wonderful, with the promise of something life-expanding and new in front of them both, but that promise was evaporating, and Hannah didn't know where to turn. She stood up, turned her face away from Mark to hide her tears, and announced, "Sweetheart, I'm going for a walk. I need to be by myself right now." And with that she left, as quickly as she could. She was out the door before Mark had even finished processing what was going on. And somehow, when she left, the apartment felt especially empty. Something very alive had left the room, and Mark suddenly felt the weight of how alone he was.
"Why was she so upset, and why did she have to leave like that?" Mark wondered. "Wasn't I just being reasonable? She likes the beach. What did I miss?" And as Mark sat there by himself, he thought back to all the fun they had had together over the past three months, making Dutch food together and experimenting with their newfound knowledge of the Dutch language. Hannah had been so much fun to be around, and even their phone calls had taken on an extra dimension with their attempts to speak Dutch. The idea to go to the Netherlands had been Hannah's, but Mark had to admit that he had been enjoying the change. He did feel a new energy in his life, whether it was from Holland or from Hannah, and now that he was alone, he started to wonder if he wasn't making a serious mistake. Didn't he love Hannah, and didn't he want to share something special with her? Why was he so reluctant to buy the tickets? Of course he could get the time off work. He hadn't taken his full vacation time once in the past four years, and everyone on his team knew he was a hard worker. What was he worried about?
And then he realized that he was afraid. This was new territory for him altogether. Sure, he had gotten bored with the ho-hum of his life, but it was the ho-hum he knew well, and this trip to the Netherlands was outside his comfort zone. And the way Hannah was planning the trip, they weren't going to be able to float along on the surface once they got to Amsterdam, just visiting coffee shops and touring the Red Light District. Hannah was already planning day trips to areas where people might not speak English, and even within Amsterdam, Hannah seemed to have her heart set on finding the "true Dutch experience." She kept talking about a concept called "gezellig," a special kind of Dutch coziness that she had read about and desperately wanted to feel. To her this trip seemed to be much more than a vacation and, by being reluctant to buy the tickets, Mark had given her the impression that he was reluctant to be with her. He thought about her and the way she'd been as happy as a child since they'd started planning this trip together. And then he thought about the way she had left the room, and suddenly he felt incredibly sad. He looked at the screen, at the "purchase itinerary" button that was still hanging in front of him, and thought, "I can always ask for more time at work, or I can make more money if I need to, but what I have with Hannah is really irreplaceable." So he thought about his love for Hannah, he double-checked the itinerary and entered the credit card information, and he clicked "purchase." They were going to the Netherlands, and Mark felt tremendous relief.

For some, the challenge of buying the plane tickets is the most difficult part of the trip, more difficult even than finding the money or time. By buying your tickets, you're making a statement to both yourself and the world that you're committed to your trip. Once your tickets are purchased, you'll have no choice but to create the time and money needed for your travels. You'll also find additional motivation to learn your foreign language once your departure date is marked on your calendar. It'll be easier to imagine yourself in your chosen country, and you'll find yourself naturally wanting to learn more about your destination. Above all, you'll know that you're taking active steps to enrich your life.








Mental Voyage #6



It's time to start pricing out tickets and to determine both the best itineraries and the best times to go. As a starting point, log on to the travel website of your choice and begin to explore your different airport and airline options, together with determining the best times of year for your trip. Make notes as appropriate in your travel journal. If you've already purchased guidebooks, begin to match up the seasonal information given in them with the pricing information that you find in your ticket search. If you have a travel partner, arrange a time for the two of you to get together to review and discuss your findings.









Chapter 7
Preparing for Your Trip: Travel Every Day

In desiring, the more the enjoyment is delayed, the more fancy begins to weave about the object images of future fruition, and to clothe the desired object with properties calculated to inflame the impulse.
—Samuel Alexander








"Taste this, sweetheart. It's a goat's milk Gouda!" Mark and Hannah were out for their usual Sunday afternoon grocery shopping. Mark had slipped away from Hannah to find the cheese counter. It turned out there were several Dutch cheeses available, and Mark was eager to sample more of the tastes of Holland. As a smiling Hannah came over to try the cheese, Mark thought about how enjoyable the last two months had been since the emotional night when he committed to buying the plane tickets. Hannah had come back from her walk that night still crying, and had tried to go right to bed without talking to Mark. But he had been able to explain why he had been so hesitant, and to tell her that he had bought their tickets. Her tears of sadness had become tears of joy, and the trip planning had started to take a larger and larger place in their lives. They had long since finished their thirty lessons of Pimsleur Dutch, moved through the Michel Thomas basic program with a little more difficulty, and were now almost done with the Michel Thomas advanced course. Hannah had found a course on Amazon called "Living Language Dutch" that they planned to start doing together in the evenings. Mark was really looking forward to it.
"Here, sweetheart." He held out a piece of the delicious Gouda. "Dit is voor jou." For some reason, it felt really good to him to say even a simple phrase like "this is for you" in another language. Language learning had always seemed so out of reach to him, and now he was exploring a part of himself that he had never known was there.
"Yum, sweetheart. Deze kaas is erg lekker!" Hannah had told him that the cheese was very tasty, and the two of them laughed at the strange word "lekker." It didn't quite mean "delicious," but the Dutch people they had watched in travel videos said it a lot, so they assumed it was an important word.
"Isn't it great, baby, that we can actually say 'Gouda' the Dutch way now, and that maybe we'll even visit the place?" Hannah asked. Gouda, which turned out to be pronounced "how-dah," was a town in the Netherlands that wasn't far from Amsterdam. Since finding out that the Netherlands is about the size of Maryland, Hannah had been excited to discover that most of the country was within a reasonable train ride of Amsterdam. "And that reminds me, sweetheart, we really need to get down to the business of planning the details of our trip!"
Hannah was right. Although they had done a lot of preliminary research, they still hadn't decided where they were going to stay or even what sights they were going to see. Mark nodded, his mouth full of Edam cheese. "Sounds great, baby. We'll get online tonight and start to look for hotels. But now try this Edam. Lekker!"

In order to maximize your enjoyment of planning your trip, let's now consider the various levels of planning:


Practical. No matter where you visit, you'll need lodging, food, and transportation. You'll also almost certainly need an up-to-date passport, and you may need a tourist visa or vaccination records. In addition, you'll need a big-picture itinerary, with an idea of which cities or towns you'd like to visit.
Cultural. When visiting a foreign country, especially for the first time, traditional tourist sites should still be visited regardless of how clichéd they may seem—there's a reason these sites are famous. For instance, a visit to the Eiffel Tower is essential for the first-time visitor to Paris. That said, more enriching experiences wait for those who look a little deeper. For example, perhaps your chosen destination has created a style of music that is uniquely its own, such as the Portuguese fado music found in Lisbon. On a visit to Lisbon, your Portuguese may or may not be sufficiently far along to understand the lyrics sung at the Casa do Fado, or "House of Fado," but the experience of hearing this haunting music in a classic location will likely stay with you forever—I know it has with me. Your research should seek out opportunities for such experiences.
Personal. For this level of planning, you should look back at why you chose your destination in the first place. Perhaps as a child you were struck by the beauty of Venice's pigeon-filled Piazza San Marco as it appeared before you on a movie screen, or perhaps catching international footage of soccer played in the Maracanã Stadium filled you with a desire to visit Rio de Janeiro. Whatever your motivations, something about your destination appealed to you, and the more personal you can make your journey, the more easily you'll be carried away by the planning process.


Considering each of these levels of planning in more detail, you'll be able to lay brush stroke after brush stroke, a little more each day, until the masterpiece of your journey begins to appear. So let's begin with the practical side of the planning.
The easiest way to get started is to visit your local bookstore to browse through the various guidebooks for your destination. The first big piece of the puzzle that you need to assess is where exactly you plan to go. While it may be tempting to try to visit several cities in your one trip, you'll enjoy many advantages if you instead pick one home base and take several day trips. The main advantage to this approach is practical in nature: time is always lost in transit, and you'll want to make the most of the time you have in your location. Moreover, traveling with luggage can be inconvenient, and you'll want to avoid juggling your belongings. And finally, you gain flexibility from only having one lodging arrangement, as you won't have to consider where to stay should your plans change. For example, my wife and I found that five days was barely enough time to visit Amsterdam, and we were happy to trade a planned day trip for an extra day "at home." If you feel an urgency to visit several cities on this one trip, remember that you're investing a lot of energy into preparing for it, including learning the language of your target country, so you're likely to want to return again and again. Although you're preparing for a trip of a lifetime, the Travel Every Day approach will allow you to take several more such trips in the future.
With the idea of a single home base in mind, the next step is to create a big-picture itinerary. Since day trips usually require an early start and a late return, it's best to separate your day trips by at least one day in your home base. In addition, you may need a few days to adjust to the time change upon your arrival, if you've traveled across multiple time zones, and you'll want to spend your last day in your home base as well to make sure that your travel home goes smoothly. Finally, you'll find it helpful for planning purposes if you focus on a different region of your home base each day that you're in town. Guidebooks will typically divide a city into regions for you, and by exploring the various regions one at a time, you'll save time and energy. This particular lesson was hard earned for me in Venice, where I once tried to organize a "church" day, with the intention of seeing the all of the main churches of the city in one day. This seemingly clever idea turned into a wild-goose chase that took my wife and me all over the city, where we got lost constantly and failed to visit more than one third of our intended itinerary. I know that people say that Venice is a great city in which to "get lost," and this is true to a point, but I can attest that running into dead end after dead end and losing hours of our trip wasn't actually very fun. We would have been much better served to focus on a portion of the city, saving other portions for other days.
To give some shape to these concepts, suppose you're traveling out on a Tuesday and returning on the following Wednesday. Your trip itinerary might look something like:

When setting your big-picture structure, it's essential that you determine which days of the week are the best days for your day trips. For instance, Mondays are often problematic days for visiting small towns in Europe, as many of the sights in those towns are closed. Wherever you plan to visit, though, you'll need to find out the particular details of your destination on your own. Fortunately, this information can be obtained from any quality guidebook, and it's a good idea to cross-reference the information in one guidebook with the information found in a second guidebook or online to be sure. In a later chapter, we'll talk about how to handle unexpected inconveniences if they occur, but a better approach is to avoid them completely.
Once you determine approximately where you'd like to be on each day, you should start to think about transportation. Using your standard resources of guidebooks and the Internet, you should be able to determine the best ways to travel between your various locations. Try to build plans with clear knowledge that transportation exists and will be available at reasonable times between the various places you'd like to go. It's not always necessary to purchase tickets ahead of time, but it's advisable to do as much research as you can to make sure that the traveling goes as smoothly as possible later on.
One last point regarding travel is that renting a car on your trip could be a bad idea, in my opinion. In addition to introducing the possibility of losing your way, driving requires your attention. Unless there is a sight of personal importance to you can only be accessed via automobile, there's little reason to rent a car and many reasons to take public transportation instead. Even the potential for time saving can be outweighed by the enjoyment of talking to locals or relaxing with your travel partner in a train station or coffee shop while you wait for your train. Nowhere was I more glad of this lesson on my travels than in Morocco, where my wife and I wisely decided to hire a driver. Thankfully this decision spared us the incredible stress of navigating hairpin turns on mountain roads, with reckless taxi drivers coming at us around blind turns in the wrong lane.
Now that we've discussed where you're going to be and how you're going to get there, we need to consider how you're going to manage yourself to make sure that your trip is as safe as possible. There will always be risks, of course, but some research ahead of time can do much to minimize those risks. For instance, we've already talked about vaccines being required for visits to some countries. More generally, it's advisable to be aware of the possibilities of diseases such as malaria or yellow fever, depending on your destination, and to know something about the local water quality. Similarly, the best way to avoid being mugged is to avoid situations in which a mugging attempt is probable. For instance, it's not advisable to walk on the beach in Rio de Janeiro at night. More generally, read all of the safety advice given in your guidebooks carefully. When you get to your destination, you may find that some concerns are overblown, but it's better to start your trip overcautious rather than foolish.

"Look at this one, sweetheart. It's called Synopsis Hotel," Mark called in to Hannah, who was busy making tea in the kitchen. Hannah and Mark had been looking around Booking.com for a hotel and had just started their search when Hannah announced she was going to make them some verse munt thee, a Dutch drink that translated as "fresh mint tea" and consisted of nothing more than hot water poured over fresh-cut mint leaves. It was such a simple idea that Hannah was surprised that she had never thought of it herself. "Just goes to show the value of travel," Hannah thought to herself as the water came to a boil. "I wonder what other ideas we'll come back with from Holland." Hannah poured the water over the mint leaves cut fresh from their garden, already in their cups. "Coming, baby," Hannah called out as she made her way back to the office.
"Thanks, sweetheart!" Mark gave Hannah a little kiss as he took his tea from her. "This Synopsis Hotel has only three rooms, but it's got great reviews, and it includes a homemade Dutch breakfast every morning. The pictures look great. Have a look at it and let me know what you think." Mark stood up and let Hannah take the driver's seat, taking a sip of his tea once he got up. "Man, this tea is really good. I wish there was someplace near my work I could get one of these in the afternoons."
"Well, that's easy, sweetheart. I'll just cut up some mint leaves for you to take to work, and you can pour some boiling water over them. But getting back to the hotels, I like the looks of this one too. I've never stayed in a three-room hotel. I wonder if it's one of those little places where the owner runs it." Hannah flipped through the pictures on Booking.com and thought, "This place looks beautiful, and really cozy." Then she realized with excitement that this hotel had "gezellig," that feeling of Dutch coziness that she had been looking for. Reading the reviews, she learned that the hotel was run by its owner, who seemed to go to great lengths to take care of her guests, in one case even driving a couple to the train station when they weren't able to get a taxi. And looking at the map, she saw that the hotel was in an excellent location, near the Rembrandthuis and the Russian Hermitage Museum. Amsterdam wasn't really that large, but even so, it seemed the hotel would serve as a good jumping-off point for the adventures that she and Mark were beginning to plan.
"This looks great, sweetheart," she said. "How did the other hotels look?"
"They looked good too, but this one really seemed to stand out. There was one with a higher average review score, but it seemed a little more modern. Since you're looking for the 'authentic Dutch experience,' I thought that this one would be better. Plus the other one was more expensive."
Hannah smiled because Mark knew exactly what she was looking for. He had been so wonderful to her throughout this whole adventure. It was her idea to go to the Netherlands, and she was so grateful at how he had thrown his energy behind her plan. "This looks perfect, baby—let's book it!"

The next practical matter is lodging, and when making the choice of where to stay, a primary factor to consider is location. I recommend you stay in a central location, even though it will be more expensive, for both convenience and safety. You'll also save time by staying in a convenient location, and time will be your most valuable resource once your trip begins. A second factor to consider is whether you'll be able to get a quality breakfast at or near your choice of lodging. Being able to get up and have breakfast immediately will save you time and provide the energy needed for a full day of experiences. A third factor to consider is how "authentic" versus "modern" you'd like your lodging to be. You'll experience your host country in every way possible during the day, and you may or may not want this experience to continue when you turn in at your hotel. And finally, you'll want to find a place where you can get a good night's sleep; be sure to read reviews carefully to make sure there will be no unpleasant surprises, such as noise from the street.
Moving on from lodging, the last major practical planning aspect is food. Every meal you eat in a foreign country is an opportunity to enjoy that country's culture in a rich way. In addition to enjoying delicious meals, speaking your new language with the service staff is an excellent way to practice. The effort you've put into learning the native language will be appreciated and will distinguish you greatly from other tourists—you'll often observe a visible transformation in the faces of those with whom you speak your new language, even when that person is fluent in English. Politeness will be replaced with warmth, and over the course of your meal, you might be treated to a private language lesson. Almost everyone takes pride in and is an expert on their native language, and by making the effort to learn the language of those you'll be interacting with, you'll have shown them a high degree of respect. That respect will be reciprocated, and you'll experience your host country in a way that simply wouldn't have been possible otherwise.
When picking restaurants, a good idea is to go through your guidebooks and circle every one that holds some interest for you. If you have a travel partner, he or she should do the same, and you should compare results. In the next chapter, we'll talk more about how to handle the reorganization of your trip as it unfolds, but for now you need a basic plan as a starting point. The goal here is to choose specific restaurants at which to make dinner reservations, and to form a list of potential lunch and snack spots that you'll pick from during the course of your trip. In making your restaurant choices, consider the culture and history of your country. For instance, if you were visiting Prague in the Czech Republic, you would do well to have at least one hearty meal in a subterranean restaurant, perhaps accompanied by a Pilsner beer, in light of the influence of the local caves on the Czech culture and brewing tradition. As a contrast, visiting a French or Japanese restaurant while in Prague might be a less enriching experience because of the lack of a historical context, regardless of the quality of the cuisine. If you count the number of meals you'll eat during your trip, you'll find that they are surprisingly few, and that each should be cherished as a significant opportunity to learn about your host culture. An interesting question that can help guide your dining choices is "How has my host country interacted with the world?" For example, Angolan food in Lisbon or Moroccan food in Paris could both be interesting experiences due to the colonial influences present in both Portugal and France. Whatever choices you make, make them thoughtfully and you'll be rewarded.
When you've marked off a series of restaurants, cafés, bakeries, candy shops, and the like to visit during the day and made one dinner choice for each night you'll be staying, preferably dividing your choices by region, the next step will be to make dinner reservations over the phone. Depending on how far in advance you're making your choices, you may need to mark the dates when reservations will first be available on your calendar, as some of the best restaurants book up completely on the first day that reservations are available. But even if reservations are not actually necessary, calling ahead accomplishes several goals other than making sure you'll have a table. Calling from the United States to make a reservation far in advance raises some curiosity about you, and you may receive some special attention. You may receive the best table in the house, and the staff may be waiting for you with curiosity, as happened to me in both Lisbon and Munich. In addition, calling to make reservations is a relatively low-risk way to practice your new language. You may find it very nerve wracking to make the first few calls, as I always do, but when you've finished making your reservations, you'll feel a sense of pride in your abilities.

"So what's the name of this movie again, baby?" Mark was already on the couch and settled in, ready for his and Hannah's weekly Saturday-night movie. Hannah was in the bedroom, where she was finishing folding some laundry. "It's called Girl with a Pearl Earring," she called in. "It's in English this time, baby."
Mark laughed because he had been complaining about the fact that all the movies they had been watching lately had been in Dutch. But his secret was that he actually enjoyed them. He and Hannah had long since finished their Michel Thomas advanced course, and more recently they'd been spending thirty minutes every night going through "Spoken World: Dutch" together. They were both getting fairly proficient, and they were having a great time speaking Dutch to each other as much as they could. But the thing that Mark loved the most when practicing was imagining himself in the Netherlands, speaking Dutch to native speakers. He couldn't wait to walk into a store and greet the storekeeper with a well-pronounced "Goedemiddag!"
Since their Dutch was coming along so well, Hannah decided it would be a good idea to watch movies in Dutch. There would still be English subtitles to hang on to, but she thought it would be good to start getting used to Dutch spoken in a more natural way. And she had been right, as the Dutch they heard in the movies was very different from the Dutch they had heard in their cars and at their kitchen table. Thankfully, their study had prepared them well enough to understand a lot of what they heard, especially when they were able to glance down at the subtitles, but they found that there was a lot of variation in the way certain words were said and in the grammar people used in real life.
"You know, sweetie, it's time for me to confess that I'm starting to like the Dutch movies," Mark said. Hannah was done folding her clothes now and was coming back to join Mark in the living room. "No!" she said, feigning surprise. They both laughed, because for all Mark's complaining, it was obvious that he looked forward to their movie nights. He was always the first one on the couch, and he had been making a point to get the dishes done as quickly as possible whenever there was a movie waiting for them. "You know, baby, I suspected as much," Hannah continued. "The fact that you were talking about the Dutch version of The Vanishing for days afterward was a bit of a clue."
Mark laughed and said, "But the Dutch version was just so much better than the American one! Which reminds me, why are we going back to English now?"
"Well, even though tonight's movie is in English, it's about the Dutch painter Vermeer. He's not that well known, at least not like Monet and Rembrandt, and he didn't paint that many paintings during his life, but the few he painted are supposed to be true masterpieces. The movie tonight is about his most famous painting, The Girl with the Pearl Earring, which is the Dutch equivalent of the Mona Lisa. It's in a museum in The Hague, and since I'm hoping to talk you into going to see it, I thought this movie would be a good idea." Almost by way of apology, she added, "It stars Scarlett Johansson and Colin Firth!"
Mark pulled Hannah down to join him on the couch. "Baby, we can go see whatever you want. Scarlett Johansson is pretty, but she's no Hannah MacDaniel. And she probably can't even speak Dutch!" Hannah laughed alongside Mark, and the two of them got comfortable as Mark started the movie with the remote.

Food and language are two major entry points to your destination's culture, but there are many other entry points available to you as well. These include history; musical, artistic, literary, and dance traditions; watching or participating in local sports or festivals; and the various cultural quirks that await you upon arrival.
Learning some history is an excellent next step in your cultural exploration. Most guidebooks provide an overview of the history of your destination, but you may wish to seek out additional resources, such as specialized books or documentaries. The exciting thing about learning history is that it puts everything else you'll learn about your destination in a larger context. No country exists in a vacuum, and learning how your country has interacted with the world throughout its development will have a profound effect on your trip planning and on your travel experience. You'll appreciate everything you see there with a larger perspective and will become eager to visit locations and sites that you might have otherwise ignored.
Once you have a sense of your destination historically, you'll be in a good position to appreciate the local music, art, literature, and dance. Of these, the easiest to start with is the music. Music can require less education to appreciate than art does, and unlike reading and dancing, listening to music can be done almost anywhere. Most guidebooks contain basic information regarding local music, and this information can be supplemented with an online search. Once you have a sense of what you'd like to hear, internet radio is an excellent resource for further exploration4. Then, once you know which aspects of the local music you appreciate the most, consider how you can incorporate at least one musical event into your trip. Perhaps you'd like to experience an opera in Teatro Alla Scala in Milan, or listen to bossa nova in a beachside café in Rio de Janeiro. If you play an instrument, you might become even more involved, especially if you can find a group in your own hometown that would welcome your interest. This last option can provide a double benefit—if you start playing music with ex-pats from your destination, conversing with these new friends in your new language during breaks, you'll truly be traveling every day.
As far as art, literature, and dance are concerned, your level of involvement will depend on your level of interest. But keep in mind that the more you learn before your trip, the more you'll appreciate what you witness upon arrival. Typically, even a little reading about the local art is sufficient to create a reasonable level of understanding. Literature can be a little more challenging than art to become familiar with, due to the extra learning required, but even working through a children's text in your new language, such as The Little Prince in French, can be very rewarding. Some books are even available in their native language and English on opposing pages, and working through such a book with your travel partner can be a lot of fun. Finally, dancing is another fundamental cultural activity that we all have more talent for than we realize once we get started. If you have the opportunity to learn some basic steps of a traditional dance before your trip, a night out dancing in a new culture can be an amazing experience. Watching a dance performance is of course another way to appreciate the dance traditions of your destination, but personal involvement will have a more lasting effect on you.
We conclude this section with a quick mention of sports, festivals, and cultural idiosyncrasies. Participating in or spectating at a sporting event is a great way to involve yourself in the local culture, with spectating sometimes becoming a form of involvement in its own right. Bicycle races in Italy or soccer matches in Brazil, for instance, take on a level of community importance that isn't matched by any sporting activity in America. In some cities, entire towns can be shut down to watch the local team or hero compete. Similarly, local festivals can reach grand proportions, and if you decide to participate, you'll want to research the practical details and make definite plans before arriving. If you happen to catch a train into Siena, Italy around the time of the bi-annual horse race known as the Palio, as I did once, you might face the possibility of spending the night on the street. In this last case, I was thankfully spared from a night of homelessness by the kindness of an elderly innkeeper, but I wouldn't wish the same stress on you during what's supposed to be a trip of a lifetime!
Lastly, regarding the quirks that are certain to exist in your host country's culture, a very good series of books that provides helpful—although sometimes stereotypical—information is the Culture Smart! series. Knowing in advance, for instance, whether everyone queues up for a line, as they do in most of western Europe, or whether it's everyone for themselves, as it can be in parts of eastern Europe, can spare you aggravation later. There's no sense in trying to impose an American way of thinking on a non-American situation; the sooner we open our minds to alternate ways of approaching life, the sooner we let the travel experience affect us on a deeper level. In fact, there was a time when travel was considered a requisite part of life education. Allow yourself to become immersed in your planning and preparation process, and you'll find that this trip will transform you in deep and unexpected ways.








Mental Voyage #7



The goal of this voyage is to find one location in your target country that will be personally important for you to experience. Ask yourself what originally motivated you to visit your destination and find one place or activity that will allow you to fulfill that motivation. For example, as I mentioned earlier in this book, I always wanted to visit the French Riviera after seeing it glamorized in To Catch a Thief. For me, the opportunity to take a day trip to Monaco, with time spent relaxing in a deck chair by the beach, was a high point of my trip to Nice, France. And as always, remember to imagine yourself as already at your destination throughout your planning, and write your thoughts out in detail in your travel journal.









Chapter 8
A Trip of a Lifetime: Making the Most of Your Amazing Experience

Success always comes when preparation meets opportunity.
—Henry Hartman








"Come on, sweetie. We better hurry. Sometimes flights board early, you know." Hannah's excitement was turning into anxiety. They had plenty of time, but Mark had requested a private security screening, giving Hannah a few extra moments to imagine catastrophes.
"Sweetheart, we can relax and walk at a normal pace. We've got thirty minutes before boarding, and even then, the flight doesn't leave right away."
Hannah sighed and relaxed a bit. "Okay, fine," she said. "I'm just excited. I can't believe that we're finally going to Holland." And it was true: the big day was finally here. Months of preparation and study were all coming together, with their direct flight to Amsterdam leaving that evening. They had used airline miles Mark had accumulated from work to upgrade to business class, and Hannah had found a wealth of inflatable pillows online that they hoped would help them sleep on the plane.
As they arrived at their gate, Hannah looked at Mark, who was wearing a backpack and had been pulling both of their carry-on suitcases. She suddenly felt a surge of love for her husband, and she started to tear up. "What's the matter, baby?" Mark asked. "We're going to catch the flight. They haven't even opened the door for boarding yet."
"It's just that looking at you and thinking about all we've been through to get ready for this trip, it's just a little overwhelming. I've never prepared for anything like this before. And I feel closer to you than I ever have. Maybe I'm sad because I know this trip is going to end, and I want it to go on forever."
Mark listened as he took off his backpack and put it on top of the suitcases. "I know what you mean, sweetie. Getting ready for this trip has opened a whole new world to me, and we're not even there yet. But let's try to stay in the moment, because the trip hasn't even started." But as Mark said those words, he knew he was wrong. The trip had begun the night that Hannah came home and made them both stamppot. "Well, maybe that's not right," Mark corrected himself. "We've been on this trip for a long time now, and it's not going to end when our plane returns in a week. In fact, this trip is going to be with us for a long time. But for now we've got a lot of fun ahead of us, so let's just enjoy it. What do you say, sweetheart?" And with that, Mark held out both of his hands toward Hannah.
"Sounds great, baby." Hannah grabbed both of Mark's hands and gave them a squeeze. "I'll put my mind on all the wonderful things we're going to see and do this week. But first, I'm going to the little girls' room." Hannah let go of Mark's hands and headed off. But sensing his eyes still on her, she looked back and gave him a little smile as she walked away.

At this point you'll have planned and prepared for a trip of a lifetime. You'll have become conversationally proficient in your host language, you'll have learned the history of your destination, and you'll have created an itinerary full of life-enriching cultural experiences. In other words, you'll have started to Travel Every Day. Even if you didn't take the trip, you'd still have benefited from the process, but the good news is that the trip is going to happen, and you're going to have an amazing time! In this chapter, we're going to cover some additional details that will help make your trip truly fantastic.
To begin with, let's discuss your outbound flight. We've already discussed the possibility of using miles to upgrade your seats. Regardless of which seats you're in, though, you'll want to maximize your ability to sleep on the plane. To this end, inflatable pillows can be a great help. For example, an inflatable footrest can take pressure off your lower back, while an inflatable side pillow can be extremely useful if your seat doesn't recline. In addition, a good eye mask is extremely valuable and noise-cancellation headphones, while not perfect, will at least tone down some of the ambient noise. See the Appendix 1 at the back of this book for my recommendations on travel accessories.
After what has hopefully been a restful flight, you'll arrive at your destination. If possible, while you're still on your plane, be sure to complete any necessary customs and immigration forms. Once your plane arrives at its gate, you'll want to get off and into the line at passport control as quickly as possible. Once you've cleared passport control, pick up your checked luggage and proceed through customs with your paperwork ready. In the next chapter, we'll discuss what to do if challenges emerge with any of these steps so far, but for now let's assume that everything will go smoothly and that you'll get through customs without a hitch. Now you'll be ready to take transportation to your hotel, but before you do that, for the sake of hydration and a little thrill, buy a bottle of water using only your new language in communicate. You're going to be speaking your new language throughout your trip, and this is a great time to get started.
Once you've arrived at your hotel, try to check in using as much of your new language as possible. A good plan of action afterward is to lie down for about twenty minutes, shower to refresh yourself for your first day, then head out to explore your new world. I would recommend though that you keep your plans light, with dinner reservations as the only major activity—the point of this first day is to get adjusted to your new surroundings.

"I can't believe we're actually here, baby," Mark said as he pulled the door to their room closed at the Hotel Synopsis. Their trip from the airport had been blessedly uneventful—an express train from the airport to Amsterdam's central station, and then a taxi to their hotel. Elizabeth, the proprietor of Hotel Synopsis, was amazingly kind and helpful. She had been a little surprised when Hannah and Mark had greeted her with a Dutch "goedemiddag," but she appreciated their effort and humored them by speaking Dutch slowly, even though she spoke perfect English. She told them that she spoke five languages, to varying degrees, and was happy to help them with their Dutch.
After checking Hannah and Mark in, Elizabeth gave them a little tour of the tiny hotel. There were in fact only three rooms in the main building, two downstairs and one upstairs. There was also a central kitchen area and, farther from the street, a beautiful trellised garden. Behind the garden, even farther from the street, was a guesthouse that Elizabeth said could house one more couple in a pinch. She then showed Hannah and Mark to their room, which faced the street. There was a small closet on the left, a little bar area where they could prepare coffee and tea, a very large and comfortable-looking bed, a desk area with a computer on which they could access the Internet, and finally, a surprisingly large bathroom with a romantic bathtub built for two. Mark couldn't help but give Hannah a little squeeze upon seeing the tub, prompting Hannah to embarrassedly whisper, "Stop it!" Elizabeth pretended not to notice and instead produced a form on which they could make their breakfast selections. She asked that they drop it off on their way out, and that they let her know if they changed their minds about their choices during the week. With that, Elizabeth disappeared, leaving Mark to close the door behind her.
Hannah looked around and broke into a huge smile, throwing her arms around Mark and exclaiming, "I love it! It's even better than the descriptions on the Internet made it sound. And I can't believe we're in Amsterdam!"
"I know, sweetheart. It's amazing. Do you want to get a quick nap and a shower before heading out to see the city?"
"Sounds great!" And with that, Mark and Hannah began their trip, cuddling up together for twenty minutes, taking quick showers, and getting comfortably dressed and ready to explore Amsterdam.

On your second day, you'll start to experience your destination in more depth. Hopefully you'll manage to get a feel for your new home on your first day, perhaps by taking your first brave steps trying out your new language, but it's only on the second day that your exploration will begin in earnest. After starting your day with a quality breakfast, either at your hotel or at a recommended restaurant, I suggest taking a walking tour. Walking tours don't usually need to be booked in advance, but it's a good idea to do some research ahead of time to find out which tours are available and where they meet. Alternatively, if your guidebooks contain self-guided walking tours, you may prefer to find your own way. In either case, there is no substitute for walking when it comes to getting familiar with an area.
Having completed your tour and found a recommended restaurant for lunch, it's now a good idea to review the list of things you still want to see that day in the area. So review your list—with your partner, if you have one—and devise a plan for the afternoon. You should also plan on stopping for a snack in the midafternoon, which will give you another chance for a cultural experience and will allow you to refuel before your late-afternoon explorations. Following those explorations, whether they involve visiting monuments or museums, shopping, or sight-seeing, you might want to head back to your hotel to take a quick nap before showering up and heading out again to what is sure to be an amazing dinner experience. After dinner you might have tickets for an event, such as an opera or ballet, or you might have plans to take in some music or visit a dance club, or you might just want to have a good night's sleep to get ready for your next exciting day. The main point is to allow the research you did ahead of time to carry you, so that now you can relax and enjoy your experiences.

"Here you are—one apple and nuts with cinnamon, and one bacon, banana, and chili pepper," the server told Mark and Hannah in Dutch. They had just received their order in the "Pancakes!" restaurant in the Negen Straatjes section of Amsterdam. The sight of bacon on a pancake was going to take some getting used to, but all the same, the pancakes looked and smelled delicious. "I'll be right back with the fresh orange juices," the server continued in Dutch as he headed back down the half flight of stairs to the main level of the restaurant.
"Wow, baby, these both look amazing," Mark said after the server was gone. He and Hannah had just finished their visit to the Anne Frank House, and they were both worn out by the experience. Hannah in particular seemed down, and Mark hoped to help pick her back up. He tried to engage her by adding, "I don't know where to start, sweetheart. Do you have a preference?"
"Well, I don't really feel like eating, but these both look amazing. And we better get some food in our stomachs to make it through the rest of the day." Hannah reached across the table to take the bacon, banana, and chili pepper. "Maybe something hot will get my appetite going again, if that's okay with you. Then we can switch halfway. Sound good?"
"Sounds great, sweetheart." Mark was starting to get concerned that Hannah was going to have trouble recovering from the morning. It had been an intense experience but also an important one. In a continued effort to connect with Hannah, Mark offered, "And what a day it's been already. That Anne Frank House was such an intense experience. It's hard to believe that happened in real life." But before Hannah could respond, the server reappeared with their juices. "Dank je wel," a somewhat mechanical Hannah thanked the server in Dutch. "Graag hedan," the server replied—the service had been gladly done, and he slipped back down the stairs.
"I know, sweetie." Hannah restarted their conversation. "I'm still recovering myself." Hannah had started to cry in the very first room of the museum, shaken by the experience. "Anne was such a talent, and what happened was so wrong. And the most incredible thing is that she was just one of millions. How something so evil could happen is beyond me."
"I know. It was just so wrong," Mark replied. And trying to change the subject, he added, "But I'm glad you knew to get tickets in advance. We must have saved at least an hour thanks to you."
Hannah nodded and said, "Yes, that's right. The guidebooks were helpful. But, baby, I think I need a moment to get some air. I'll be back in a minute. Don't worry. I'm fine." With that, Hannah excused herself and left a concerned Mark at the table as she scampered down the short flight of stairs and out into the street. Once there, with the sunlight on her, she began to realize that she had been retreating into her own head for some time now. True, the experience had affected her, but she and Mark were still in Amsterdam together, and there was still a lot on the schedule she had made for the day. In particular, they were supposed to explore the so-called Negen Straatjes, or "Nine Little Streets," a shopping district full of local shops, some of which had been open for hundreds of years. Mark wanted to visit a place called the Kaaskamer, or "Cheese Room," and she wanted to poke around some of the boutique clothing shops. Once they were done, they planned to visit the Rijksmuseum, one of the world's most famous art museums and home to many of the masterpieces of Dutch painting. And there were several cafés in the area that they hoped to stop by if there was time. She was glad they had visited the Anne Frank House, but now it was time for her to let it go. Someday, when she and Mark had children, they might return to Amsterdam and visit the house again for their children's education, but they could make that decision when they needed to. It was time to rejoin Mark and to put herself back into Amsterdam with him.
Taking a last few moments to herself, Hannah looked at the busy street around her and up at the beautiful gabled houses that surrounded her, catching a glimpse of the nearby Prinsengracht Canal just a few hundred feet to her right. She took a few breaths, turned around, and headed back into the restaurant. As she walked back up the stairs, she looked up at Mark, who had been watching her the whole time, and smiled.

In our discussion of your big picture in the last chapter, I recommended alternating days in your main destination with day trips out of town, with the first day used to adjust to your new environment. If you follow this recommendation, then your third day will bring your first day trip. As much as possible, you'll want to have the logistics of your day trip, such as which form of transportation to take and when, planned ahead of time. In some instances, such as when traveling by train on busy routes in Europe, it can be a good idea to purchase your tickets in advance and to obtain reserved seats if possible, even if that means paying an additional amount for a first-class ticket. If you're not sure what to do, searching online travel forums can be helpful, or you may even call ahead to your hotel to ask for advice. Finally, I recommend that you get an early start, as it's better to have extra time at the end of the day to cover an additional area of your home base than to run out of time on your day trip.
In addition to knowing the plans for your day trip, you should pick at least one restaurant as a possible lunch destination, have a dinner reservation already made, and perhaps have a few spots in mind for snacks along the way. Between these mileposts, you want to have an idea of which sights you plan to see or which activities you plan to engage in once your day trip is underway. Day trips are excellent opportunities for beautiful hikes or walks, but remember to keep your attire in mind when it comes to your dinner reservation if you're not going to have time to go back to your hotel to change. For instance, I once enjoyed a wonderful afternoon hike between the castles of Sintra, Portugal, only to run into trouble when my hiking clothes left me drastically underdressed for a high-end dinner I had planned during my return trip to Lisbon. Fortunately, the head waiter was sufficiently amused by my Portuguese that my pleas for mercy fell on receptive ears, and we were seated at a corner table where my attire was less embarrassing for everyone.
The last thing to keep in mind on your day trips, and throughout your entire vacation, is that you're in control of your plans, and you can change them as you see fit along the way. A very good idea is to take a few minutes each morning and night to review the progress you've made and to update your plans as your trip unfolds. Relaxation can sometimes compete with a desire to make the most of your time abroad, but by making your plans ahead of time and allowing yourself to adjust those plans as needed, you'll be able to accomplish both goals simultaneously.

"Oh, wow, sweetheart, there she is!" Mark and Hannah had just turned a corner on the top floor of the Mauritshuis Museum in the city of The Hague, 40 miles southwest of Amsterdam. On the far wall to their right was a small painting in which a young woman appeared against a black background. She was looking over her left shoulder and wore a slightly surprised expression on her face. But most significantly to Mark and Hannah, she wore a single pearl earring on her left ear. This was the famous Girl with a Pearl Earring by Johannes Vermeer—the Dutch Mona Lisa. "Gosh, she's so beautiful," Mark murmured. "I have to get a closer look."
Hannah stayed back, watching Mark inch his way up to the edge of the group crowded around the painting. She couldn't believe what she was seeing. Here was Mark, who until this trip had had no interest in fine art, going out of his way to see a work by a lesser-known Dutch painter. The movie Girl with a Pearl Earring had piqued his interest—something that years of Hannah's prodding had never been able to accomplish. Before the trip, Mark had also read a book called The Story of Art that Hannah had left over from her college years, and during their visit to the Rijksmuseum, Mark had seemed to genuinely enjoy himself. The two of them had stood in front of Rembrandt's The Prophetess Anna for a full five minutes, discussing Rembrandt's amazing use of light and the profound skill he demonstrated in detailing the prophetess's hand. Mark had even volunteered that Rembrandt seemed to anticipate Impressionism. Thinking back on that moment filled Hannah with happiness, not so much for herself but for the fact that Mark was developing an entirely new side of himself. She walked up to him, and he turned to her and smiled.
"She's just so fresh, so effervescent. I can't help but smile when I look at her. I think I'll just stay here all day." Mark seemed as happy as a little boy.
"I know, sweetheart. I can't believe it either. Photographs of paintings never give the feeling of being in front of them," Hannah replied.
"She just has this breathless quality," Mark continued. "I think I'll remember this moment for a long time." Then Mark looked back at Hannah and clarified, "I think I'll remember being here with you for a long time." Mark squeezed Hannah's hand and gave her a little kiss on the cheek, and Hannah blushed.
"Thanks, sweetheart," Hannah said. "When you're ready, let's see what else there is to see and then get going. We still have another town to see today." And it was true: they had planned to see The Hague in the morning and then visit Delft, a canal-filled village renowned for its beauty, in the afternoon.
"Sounds great," Mark responded. "But before we go to Delft, I want to find Vermeer's View of Delft. I think it's in this room. Oh, there it is," he said as he turned around to face the opposite wall. "Wow, it's magnificent too!" Mark let go of Hannah's hand and walked away. Hannah turned and saw that Mark was right on both counts: there was the View of Delft, and it was magnificent. But more than any piece of art, Hannah appreciated Mark. They were on a trip of a lifetime together.







Mental Voyage #8



As practice for your main trip and for adjusting plans on the fly, plan a day trip in your hometown or to a nearby city. Obtain whatever guidebooks and information you can, and plan a day full of sight-seeing, tourist activities, and local culinary and cultural experiences. If public transportation is an option, use it together with walking as much as possible to get used to not having a car. Try to have everything you need for the day in a small backpack. As you move through your day, adjust your plans as the situation calls for it, and do your best to make your day as fulfilling as possible.









Chapter 9
Bumps in the Road: Overcoming Challenges Along the Way

When you travel, remember that a foreign country is not designed to make you comfortable. It is designed to make its own people comfortable.
—Clifton Fadiman








"How the heck does this machine work?" Mark was frustrated. He and Hannah were at the end of an amazing day, but now they were having problems getting back to Amsterdam. They had visited The Hague that morning and spent a wonderful afternoon touring the village of Delft.
When they had arrived in Delft, they had been pleasantly surprised by an antique market, where Hannah had collected a few pieces of Delftware ceramics to take back home with her. They had then visited the so-called Old and New Churches, with the New Church completed in 1496. Mark was amazed at the staggering architecture of the Old Church, with its towering and slightly leaning steeple, and Hannah had pointed out how the empty alcoves on the outside of the church had once held religious statues. As the Reformation had swept through the Netherlands, she explained, the so-called iconoclasts had destroyed all signs of what they considered to be Catholic idolatry. But although those actions were directed toward the religious icons, she continued, the real motivations were political, as the Netherlands at that time was still recovering from years of Spanish Catholic rule. Although Mark was interested in the story, he was much more interested in the way Hannah passionately related it to him. She had been a political science major, after all, and he liked how she was reconnecting with that part of herself during this trip.
After they had completed their tour, they had eaten dinner at the African restaurant Abessini before heading back to the Delft train station. And now here they were, trying to catch one of the last trains back to Amsterdam and having serious problems buying a ticket. The ticket counter was closed, and their only option seemed to be to use an awkward-looking yellow machine. The machine didn't accept cash or credit card. It only wanted a special "chipkaart" that neither of them had. They looked around for help, but the station was deserted. "Well, what do you think we should do?" Hannah wondered aloud.
"We could just get on a train to Amsterdam and see what happens," Mark responded, only to be surprised when Hannah recoiled from the idea.
"I don't know, sweetie. I was reading that if you don't have a ticket once you're on the train, the fine is pretty steep. I think that one guidebook said it was a thirty-five-euro fine per person."
"Thirty-five euro?" Mark said incredulously. "But I don't know what else we can do. Maybe we'll get lucky and no one will come along to check our tickets." Hannah made a face, but she had to agree that they didn't have any other options. Just then a train pulled up marked for Amsterdam.
"Okay, sweetheart, here's our chance." Mark motioned as the train doors opened. "What do you think?"
"I guess we don't have any other choice. Let's give it a go."
Mark and Hannah stepped on the train, and Hannah looked around for an official to explain their situation to. Seeing no one, they found a seat and sat down somewhat anxiously. "Okay, let's hope for the best," Mark said. "At least we had a wonderful day, and if we have to pay the fine, then that's what we'll do."
Hannah agreed, and the two of them began to relive their experiences from the day, from discussing the contrast between the modern and classical buildings of The Hague to recalling the way Hannah had ordered a selection of nuts and candies for the two of them in Dutch in a local candy shop near The Hague's city center. Mark was still amazed at just how beautiful Delft had been, and how perfectly preserved the entire village was, and the two of them were nostalgically reviewing the pictures of the day when Mark felt a tap on his shoulder. He turned with a large smile on his face, only to have his smile disappear as he met the gaze of a stern-looking conductor. "Goedenavondt. Treintickets, alstublieft." The conductor wanted their tickets, and Mark and Hannah shared an anxious look. Hannah took the lead and replied, "Goedenavondt. We hebben een problem."
The conductor's eyes narrowed, having heard Hannah explain that they had a problem. "Ja? En wat is uw probleem?" "What is your problem?" the conductor asked in Dutch.
Hannah thought it best to try to use English to avoid confusion, so she decided to ask, in Dutch, whether the conductor spoke English. "Spreekt u Engels, meneer?"
"Nee, mevrouw, en ik moet uw ticket te zien." Hannah understood that the conductor didn't speak English and that he needed to see their tickets. He was starting to get annoyed, and the situation was becoming tense. To make matters worse, Hannah was finding that the pressure of the situation was making her doubt her Dutch, so she began to fumble around in her backpack for her phrase book. The conductor was losing patience, and Hannah could feel tears welling up when she heard Mark say, "Het spijt me, maar we hebben geen tickets. We willen tickets in Delft te kopen, maar we hebben geen chipkaart en we zijn alleen." Mark had done his best to apologize for not having tickets and to explain that they weren't able to buy them in Delft. He had used the present tense instead of the past, since that's what he knew best, and he was sure his grammar wasn't right, but he had gotten the idea across, and the conductor seemed to understand.
"Ah, heel goed, ik begrijp het nu," the conductor replied. And then in English he added, "There is penalty, but I charge not." He punched some numbers into the little machine that was hanging from his neck, and before he could continue in English, Mark asked, "How much?" in Dutch. The conductor, impressed by Mark's commitment, replied in Dutch that it would be ten euros and twenty cents. As Mark paid, he added, "Hoe long wonen jullie here in Nederland?" He had asked how long Mark and Hannah had lived in the Netherlands!

One of the many ways that you grow through travel is by being forced outside your comfort zone. When this happens, preparation will help to make your trip as smooth as possible. Although many guidebooks focus on practical preparation, I've found that the mental challenges are usually tougher than the practical ones—so we'll start by covering three mental habits that I've found useful to cultivate.
The first habit, and the one that comes least easily to me, is that of patience. With very few exceptions, other countries move more slowly than the United States. It's important to remember that you're on vacation to take a break from the race of American life. If you end up waiting, try to keep perspective and enjoy the break.
The second mental habit that I try to practice is that of looking for a hidden benefit in temporary setbacks. I recommend trying to find at least one good thing in each challenge. With this perspective, you might find a new opportunity that you weren't expecting. And at the very least, you'll give your mind something to think about instead of suffering over your present situation.
The final habit that has carried through many difficult situations is that of having a sense of humor. When circumstances become extremely demanding, you have a choice whether to get upset or to step away and consider how ridiculous the circumstances are. If there are people around you, for example, you might try to lighten the mood by suggesting that the entire situation has been contrived to test how much stress we human beings can withstand, and make humorous references to your imaginary tormentors. Travel challenges, while inconvenient, are with very few exceptions not matters of life and death. Remembering that fact will help you to begin to see the humor in a situation if bad goes to worse.
In addition to cultivating these three mental habits, you can also help yourself with some precautions. For starters, create photocopies of all your sensitive documents, such as passports, visas, and insurance information, and store the copies in a separate place away from the originals. You may also wish to give copies to someone trustworthy who isn't going on the trip for safekeeping, and to upload digital scans of these documents to secure online hosting services such as Evernote or Dropbox. It's also a good idea to arrive at your destination with at least some of the local currency, in the event that there's a problem with your bank or credit card upon arrival. Depending on your destination, foreign currency can usually be obtained from your local bank with an advance order. Similarly, vaccination requirements and corresponding documentation can and should be investigated well in advance. And finally, you'll want to invest in a secure document and currency holder that will allow you to keep your valuables on your body and away from pickpockets. If you're traveling with a partner, split your money and credit cards across the two of you to minimize your losses in the unfortunate event of theft. Similarly, be sure to pack enough in your carry-on that you can afford to lose your checked luggage altogether without experiencing disaster5, and leave a copy of your local contact information inside your checked luggage in the event your bag tag comes off in transit.
Another consideration of great practical importance is the need for communication. For example, if a flight cancellation delays your trip by one day, make sure to contact your hotel so that you'll still have a room when you finally arrive. More generally, whatever happens, try to consider the practical impact of plan changes on your entire trip. Also be sure to ask for compensation for any trouble that you incur—while being polite, of course. It's entirely reasonable to return a day later, without a flight change fee, if you're forced to leave a day later on account of a cancelled flight. I've had this very request granted myself, in fact.
From the standpoint of safety, as mentioned before, you need to know which locations are safe at which hours, particularly in the evenings, and to take necessary precautions. For example, a friend of mine once planned to rent a car and drive through the forests of Honduras, before reading in one guidebook that he would certainly be kidnapped if he did. Wherever your destination, gather as much information as possible, and never place yourself in a potentially risky situation; inconvenience and danger are two different things.
By being patient and optimistic through inconveniences, and by avoiding actual danger altogether through informed preparation, you can control to a very large degree the effect of circumstances on your travel experience. There will be bumps in the road, of course, and circumstances beyond your control will occur, but learning to navigate these circumstances will give you confidence in your ability to stay flexible through the various challenges that life is sure to offer.








Mental Voyage #9



To practice patience, humor, and keeping your calm in stressful circumstances, create a package to mail to a friend and go to the busiest post office in your area to mail it right before it closes for the day. As you wait in the long line, make a point to keep a smile on your face and to be kind to those around you. If you have to take time off work to complete this mental voyage, even better.









Chapter 10
The Journey Continues: New Directions or Revisit Every Day?

Once you have traveled, the voyage never ends, but is played out over and over again in the quietest chambers. The mind can never break off from the journey.
—Pat Conroy








"Baby, this stamppot is more delicious than ever!" Mark exclaimed as he took his first bite. "I don't know if I just learned to appreciate it during our trip, or if you've gotten better at making it, but I'm really in the mood for it."
"Probably a bit of both, sweetheart," Hannah replied as she finished her first bite. "I was paying attention to the spices over there, and I did make a few adjustments." Mark and Hannah had been back in the states now for two weeks, and they were still glowing from their amazing time in the Netherlands. After their day in Delft and The Hague, they had shared so many fantastic experiences together that they sometimes had difficulty remembering them all. They had visited the home of Rembrandt, taken in the largest Van Gogh collection in the world at the Van Gogh Museum, shared canal-side beer and pie at the famous Café t'Smalle, enjoyed a wonderful walk through the enormous Vondelpark (with Jan de Groot, with whom they had managed to get in touch!), and generally immersed themselves in the Dutch culture as thoroughly as possible during their week-long trip. It had turned out that there was so much more to do than they had expected, they had been forced to jettison their plans to visit the Dutch town of Haarlem (where they had originally planned to meet up with Jan), along with the so-called "Historic Triangle" to the north of Amsterdam. But they didn't mind at all. As Mark had said, canceling those plans just gave them another reason to go back sooner. Hannah liked that idea, so they focused their attention on experiencing as much of Amsterdam as they could. The trip had been incredible for them both individually, but it seemed to have an even stronger effect on them as a couple. Since they'd returned, they'd been spending more time together in the evenings, reliving their memories and continuing to learn Dutch together.
"I'm really glad you like the stamppot, sweetheart." Hannah reopened the conversation. "It may not be the same as what we had at Moeders Restaurant, but I think it's still pretty good. Would you like a beer?" Mark nodded, his mouth full of food, and Hannah got up to go get beers for both of them. Before the trip, Hannah hadn't really cared for beer, but something about having beer canal-side had seemed to convert her.
Mark watched Hannah walk into the kitchen, then looked down at the beautiful spread of food she had prepared: stamppot and freshly made bread and an assortment of Dutch cheeses. The world was opening to him, thanks to Hannah and the adventure they shared together, and he knew that their travels had only just begun.

When your trip is completed, you'll have experienced your destination in a way that few tourists ever do. You'll have immersed yourself in the culture and developed a completely new part of yourself. Your trip will have been filled with rich experiences, and if you travel with a partner, then the two of you will be connected in a deep and unique way. In addition to all this, you'll have created a wealth of memories to draw on in the future, both to share with others and to enjoy yourself. Life will constantly remind you of your trip, and you may find yourself drawn to new activities back home. In total, you'll be alive in a much more complete way. The question then is what to do next.
To answer this question, there are two possible options to choose from. One option is to plan a return trip to the same country you just visited, or to a country where the same language is spoken. The second option is to plan a trip to a completely new destination. Each option has its merits.
If you plan a new trip to the same location, you'll journey even deeper into your host country's culture. You could also gain a new perspective on that culture by visiting a different region. For example, a foreigner would have to visit the United States many times to develop an appreciation for its many regional differences. In addition, you'll find that the absolute best time to study your language, other than when you're actually in a country where that language is spoken, is immediately following your trip. With your brain fully primed for learning by the immersion you've experienced, you might find that two weeks of study following your trip to be more fruitful than two months of study prior to your trip. And to build on your success, you might consider watching movies completely in your new language, without subtitles, or reading some classical works of literature in that language with translations to assist you. In fact, if you plan to return to your host country for your next trip, you might pick up some books, movies, and music while you're there. Just make sure that any media, such as DVDs, that you buy are compatible with your media player back home.
On the other hand, you might plan a trip to a new destination altogether. This is the more exciting option, as it will take you back outside your comfort zone. If you choose this path, you'll again develop another side of yourself. But keep in mind that it's normal for the transition to be difficult at first. You might find yourself speaking the language of your last destination instead of the language of your new destination, especially if the two languages are from the same family. But rest assured, before long your brain will reorganize itself and you'll start to keep everything straight.
So which option to choose? My suggestion is to start by planning trips to several different countries so as to definitely determine which cultures and languages agree with you. For example, I keep finding myself drawn to countries where Romance languages are spoken. As a minimum, you might consider planning trips to three different countries, with three different languages, before you pick one to focus on in the future. Or you may decide to never focus on one country in particular, and to become a "citizen of the world." Only you and your travel partner can be sure what's best for yourselves.
One option you won't consider, though, is that of not traveling again. Once your eyes have been opened to the world, it's impossible to close them. Your perspective on life is going to be transformed by your experiences, and now you'll forever value travel. You'll connect with new people more easily and appreciate the details of life more fully. But more than anything, you won't be able to wait until your next trip. Fortunately, because you've learned to Travel Every Day, you won't have to wait long.







Mental Voyage #10



Now that your journey is complete, there are two things to do. One is to give closure to your finished journey, and the other is to begin planning for the future. You can accomplish both of these goals in the same evening by planning a night to re-experience and share the culture of your destination through food, music, perhaps a movie, and definitely a viewing of pictures and video from your trip. If you traveled with a partner, make the evening just for the two of you, and begin to discuss throughout the evening where you'd like to go for your next trip. If you traveled by yourself, invite friends over to share in your experience, and consider whether any of them would perhaps like to participate in your next trip. And as a final piece of preparation, I recommend that you take time to write out the key experiences you enjoyed and lessons you learned in your travel journal, before turning the page to begin your next adventure!









Appendix 1 — Recommended Resources
Books

1,000 Places to See Before You Die, by Patricia Schultz: This now-classic book serves as a useful catalog of many of the world's most noteworthy travel highlights. My copy is well-worn and marked with stickers in many places as I've been fortunate enough to visit several hundred of the destinations at this point.
Culture Smart!: The Essential Guide to Customs & Culture, by various authors: This series does a nice job of introducing the basic feel of a culture without getting caught up in details. Sometimes the series can border on stereotypical but, in some cases at least, there are reasons why stereotypes exist. All in all, I've found this series to be helpful in terms of setting some initial expectations that have helped me to adjust more quickly to my new environments.
Great Escapes: Experience the World at Your Leisure, by Lonely Planet: Great Escapes is similar to The Travel Book described below, but is more focused on specific trips that you might plan. My wife and I have used it to chart out a future trip to Spain, for example.
One Week Budget, by Tiffany Aliche: Money management has always been a challenge for me, since I really didn't learn any systematic techniques for managing money growing up. Fortunately, One Week Budget provides a clear and concise plan for organizing finances, and has helped my wife and myself organize our family finances so we have more money for travel.
The Story of Art, by E.H. Gombrich: This was the first book I read on art appreciation, and I found it to be both easy to read and engaging. A full study of art appreciation is of course its own endeavor but, for getting starting learning about basics of art, I recommend this book highly.
Time Management in an Instant, by Karen Leland and Keith Bailey: Related to money management, time management is an important part of creating resources for your trip. In reality, there is no such thing as time management since we can only really manage ourselves and not time, but the basic idea that we can be more effective in our lives by thoughtfully organizing our activities is an important one nonetheless.
The Travel Book, by Lonely Planet: Described as a journey through every country of the world, this book has been useful to my wife and me as we've used it to both inspire and fine-tune our choices of travel destinations. The full color photography is especially inspiring, and the book is generally educational even if the summaries of each country are somewhat brief.
Vagabonding, by Rolf Potts: Somewhat the opposite of Travel Every Day, this inspiring book is about how to take the road for extended periods of time. I recommend this book for a contrasting approach, as well as for many well-described travel and money-management resources. You may find that, after using the principles of Travel Every Day, you want more physical travel in your life and may find that Vagabonding is a good next step. Personally, the approach doesn't fit with the other competing goals in my life, which is part of why I developed and wrote Travel Every Day, but it may work well for you and I encourage you to explore your options.
Language Learning Series

Michel Thomas Method: Second only to Pimsleur, I've found Michel Thomas Method, to be an excellent resource for gaining conversational fluency in a new language. The approach is more grammatically-driven than Pimsleur, but still focuses on the production of useful (and sometimes impressive) phrases that you learn to say—one of my favorite memories from my trip to Rio de Janeiro was asking a Brazilian waiter, in Portuguese, what he thought of the economical and political situation in Brazil.
Oxford Take Off: Ideally suited to working with a partner at the kitchen table, I've very much enjoyed working through various languages in this series. The series moves quickly, and is best suited for intermediate level learners, but is conversation-driven and usually well put together.
Pimsleur Language Programs: As discussed in detail in the body of this book, I've found the Pimsleur method to be the best method, by far, in which to begin new languages. There are some weaknesses, of course, such as an occasional focus on topics that don't seem very important in retrospect, but the overall approach is second-to-none in terms of preparing travelers to feel comfortable taking their first brave new steps in a foreign language. I recommend PimsleurAudio.com for finding downloadable versions of Pimsleur programs at reasonable prices.
Teach Yourself: I've found this series to be sometimes useful and sometimes disappointing, so I recommend reading the reviews of the particular product you plan to buy carefully before buying. At its best, Teach Yourself, provides a nice balance between conversational and classroom learning.
Online Resources

Adioso.com, Airbnb.com, Booking.com, Google flight search, Kayak.com, TripAdvisor.com, and many other online search and booking websites: One of the most difficult parts of travel planning in the modern world, in my opinion, is navigating the staggering number of travel booking websites. I've provided here the websites that I've enjoyed using recently, but I recommend that you start your travel planning by doing a search for "best travel booking websites" and reading some recent reviews of the various sites before digging in—new sites with new features are appearing all the time and the best sites today may not be the best sites tomorrow.
Amazon Instant Video (Amazon.com) and Netflix (Netflix.com):Both Amazon and Netflix have large libraries of foreign movies that can be instantly streamed on demand. In addition, both sites have extensive reviews that will help guide your choices. As far as which site is superior, I personally prefer the freedom of choosing movies without a monthly commitment on Amazon. But if you're already a Netflix member, you may find that Netflix provides all the movies you will ever need to get up to speed listening to conversations in your new language.
FlyerTalk.com and NerdWallet.com: Both of these websites provide extensive guidance on navigating the details of travel loyalty programs and their corresponding credit cards.
Pandora.com and Spotify.com: Both of these online radio resources provide a wealth of foreign language music, with a variety of stations and playlists available. I personally use Pandora radio to explore a new musical culture and then use Spotify to hone in on specific artists or sounds that I like once I have a sense of my preferences.
Travel Gear

Back Booster Inflatable Cushion: This is simply the perfect behind-the-back lumbar support pillow. Just be sure not to leave it on the airplane, as I have on numerous occasions.
eBags Mother Lode TLS Convertible Weekender: The travel bag to end all travel bags, I can't recommend this bag enough. Amazingly well put together, this bag is comfortable to wear and cavernous, yet still fits in the overhead bins on international flights. Using these bags, my wife and I both packed all the items we needed for our three week honeymoon in Morocco and France.
Bose Noise-Cancellation Headphones: While noise-cancellation headphones do not actually cancel all sound, they do a nice job of removing repetitive noises such as the drone of airline engines. I usually use both earplugs and headphones.
Bucky Eye Shades: Portable, comfortable, and effective eye shades. I sleep with my Bucky Eye Shades every night, and not just when I'm traveling.
Hearos Xtreme Protection Earplugs: I have no particular reason to recommend one brand of earplugs over another—Hearos are simply the brand I use and they work for me.
Space Bag Travel Roll-Up Bags: There are a variety of brands that essentially do the same thing, but I've had luck with the Space Bag brand not breaking and helping me to pack a lot of clothes in a small amount of space. When combined with the Mother Lode Weekender, these bags will allow you to pack more than enough clothes for your trip in your carry-on bags. One word of warning—the combination of the Weekender and the Space Bags can actually cause you to exceed your allowable weight limit. If possible, weigh your bag before going to the airport to avoid unnecessary fees.
Travelon 1st Class Sleeper: While this pillow is somewhat clumsy to use, I recommend inflating it approximately 70% of the way and using it underneath your legs instead of behind your back. Depending on the amount of leg room available, you may be able to approximate lay-flat sleeping to some reasonable degree when you combine this pillow with the other recommended pillows.
TravelRest Inflatable Travel Pillow: This inflatable sash is the only pillow I've ever found that actually prevents my head from rolling forward down my neck. I consider it essential for sleeping on airplanes and can't recommend it highly enough.
Vitalsox Graduated Compression Performance Patented Recovery Socks with Dry Stat: My wife has had issues with circulation on long flights, and these socks have greatly reduced the leg and ankle swelling that she used to experience. Also, from what I understand, they're comfortable and keep her warm.







Appendix 2 — Picture Index
Front cover: Lisbon, Portugal
Chapter 1: Merzouga, Morocco
Chapter 2: Munich, Germany
Chapter 3: Prague, Czech Republic
Chapter 4: Sintra, Portugal
Chapter 5: Brussels, Belgium
Chapter 6: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Chapter 7: Hydra, Greece
Chapter 8: Venice, Italy
Chapter 9: Barcelona, Spain
Chapter 10: Milan, Italy
Author Bio: Amsterdam, The Netherlands








1 If you don't have a regular commute in which you drive by yourself, other good opportunities to engage in language learning include: 1) While doing chores around the house, 2) On walks, and 3) While using public transportation. I've personally used all three of these options as well, and I've found in the third case that those who don't realize that you're learning a new language will simply think that you're on the phone.
2 I am not in any way affiliated with the Pimsleur method, or any other language learning technique for that matter. I've simply found Pimsleur to be by far the most effective method for beginning a new language. I've yet to find other mainstream programs that place as pure an emphasis on spoken conversation, but if others were to appear I would endorse them highly as well.
3 New travel search sites appear on a regular basis, so you may wish to educate yourself a little on the various sites before booking. At time of writing, I found the flexible date search Adioso.com to be the easiest to use for booking a trip to Rome, Italy, from Richmond, Virginia. Also, a tip worth considering when booking multiple travelers is to buy one ticket at a time - airlines will sometimes charge the higher price for both tickets if there is only one ticket left at a lower price. The way to test whether or not this is the case is to search for one ticket, search for two tickets, and see if the price for two tickets is twice that of one ticket.
4 See Appendix 1 at the back of this book for my personal recommendations.
5 An even better option is to not check a bag at all. See Appendix 1 for my recommendations that will allow you to carry on everything you need for your trip.















