



Contents DedicationAcknowledgementsIntroductionA NIGHT TO REMEMBERTHE AWAKENINGTORN BETWEEN TWO LOVERSTHE SCARLET LETTERTHE MORNING AFTER PILLMOMA'S BABY, DADDY'S MAYBESTRAW, STICK, OR BRICKHELP, I'VE FALLEN. CAN I GET UP?A MESSAGE OF HOPETHE SUITCASEMY STIBABY MAMA DRAMAA MARRIAGE WORTH FIGHTING FORTHE STRUGGLE IS OVERWHEN DEATH COMESMY NEW LIFEWhen Death Comes - The PoemABOUT THE AUTHOR 








This publication is protected under the US Copyright Act of 1976 and all other applicable international, federal, state, and local laws, and all rights are reserved. Please do not distribute this book in any way. Please do not sell it, or reprint any part of it without written consent from the author, except for the inclusion of brief quotations in a review. Always include a link to womenofexcellence.biz 







DedicationI am a daughter of the Church of God In Christ. I dedicate this book to all the great women who imparted a spirit of excellence into my life. This spirit caused me not to settle for mediocrity, but instead, believe the written Word, "I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me." Philippians 4:13 and in so doing, I can do it with excellence! 







AcknowledgementsI am blessed, that for the last 26 years I have a man of faith and favor in my life and to our union we have two God-fearing children.  Pastor Michael Shaw Sr. is my confidant, my friend, my lover, and my favorite prayer partner.  My husband ensures, provision, protection, and providence as a man of God should.  There is not much any of us have lacked down through the years.  No, we have not always had the best of everything compared to man's viewpoint, but we have had the best of everything according to the Word.  As a father to our son, he taught him the value and need of a good education in caring for a family.  As a father, he shows him by example the importance and value of going to work every day, and the responsibilities that come with taking care of a family.  As a father to our daughter, he showed her by example how a man is to love his wife and family, esteem them higher than himself.  As a husband, he opens doors, carries bags, pays all my bills, and yes, he even goes shopping with me every now and again.  He has a heart of gold found in few men today and so I take this time to recognize him for loving me and not leaving me.  I love my man of God, my BMW (black man working) and my kingdom kids for always having my front, and both my sides because God has our backs.   







IntroductionAfter finally meeting and marrying Mr. Right, can Teresa break loose of the ungodly soul tie with Eric that has held her love captive for so long?  Can she truthfully say no to the past and yes to the future?  Teresa is like many women in today's society.  She is married, but doesn't fully understand the commitment that comes with marriage.  As an independent woman, she still thinks life revolves around her.  When Death Comes is the sequel to Soul Ties, Unchain My Heart, and mirrors real-life decisions and consequences one woman faced on her journey to breaking free from the ungodly soul tie of an ex-lover.  Will she finally be able to break free of this ungodly soul tie she created with her ex-lover and move forward in her new life with her husband? Get ready for a journey full of, disappointments, drama, heartbreak, laughter, and love. 







A NIGHT TO REMEMBERWhen I was 17 years old, for the first time in my life I was allowed to go to a classmate's birthday party which happened to be a sleepover at her mother's home.  I remember it like it was yesterday because growing up in a sanctified home; it was next to impossible to stay over at anyone's home, relatives included.  This particular friend's mother was a single woman and that made things even worse in the eyes of my mother as she always thought the worst, and then to put the icing on the cake, my friends' mother did not confess to being a Christian.  So, do you see what I was working with? The odds were stacked greatly against the likelihood that I would be able to go to her sleepover.  It was a Thursday--I will never forget--a memory is embedded in my head.  I had just finished doing dinner dishes and was sitting outside on the porch talking to a neighbor; we rarely left the steps of our porch. I saw what looked like my classmate's mother's vehicle coming down the street and I started getting nervous. My mother hated for people to show up unexpected and uninvited and I knew not to invite anyone to my house without first getting her permission as that was grounds for a good beating. As the car came closer to the house I knew it was my friend Rochelle's mother car, because she was the only black woman I knew that drove a Mercedes Benz. My friend's mother was a doctor, she drove a fancy car, and lived in a big fancy house; at the time I was growing up, most black folks hadn't reached her status.  As her car pulled up next to the house, my friend jumped out, as bubbly as only she could be, "Teresa, I want you to be at my sleepover party so I asked my mother to stop by and talk with your mother. Maybe she can talk her into letting you come."  After my friend told me the reason of their visit, I immediately started perspiring because I knew my mother was going to indict me for putting my friend up to inviting her mother to my house, but in all honesty I had no idea the doctor was going to do this.  As she stepped out of the car, she had on her doctor's scrubs and she walked up to me, "Hello Teresa, is your mother home?" "Yes ma'am, I said, "Let me get her."  "Oh no," she said, "I'll go in. I want to talk to her in private please." My knees began shaking as I yelled out, "Just a minute, she doesn't like anyone to come in without first knowing who's at the door," which was the absolute truth.  I ran in the house. I was out of breath, not from running, but from being scared. "Momma, my friend Rochelle's mother is here to see you" "About what?" my mother asked nervously."I don't know. She said she wanted to talk to you privately." "OK," my mother said, "Tell her, I'll be out in a minute" My mother worked in a factory but because she was sanctified, she always wore skirts even to work.  When I rattled her with my news, she got up and fancied herself up before she came to the door.  I went outside and almost started crying because I knew my butt was going to be toast when Rochelle's mother left the house.  My mother came to the door and invited Rochelle's mother in so they could talk.Meanwhile my friend and I sat outside and waited what seemed like an eternity for her mother to come out the house.  Suddenly, I heard the screen door open and her mother walked out with a smirk on her face.  So many thoughts ran through my mind. I immediately wanted to take off running because I didn't know what fate held for me, but I stood in place. Actually, invisible cement had formed around my feet keeping me from moving, but otherwise, I would have taken off.  My friend's mother walked by me and told Rochelle "Let's go," and as Rochelle got in their car, she said, "Goodbye," and I thought for sure it was our final farewell.My mother called me into the house, as she was an expert at not disciplining us in public so neighbors would have nothing to report to the police. "Teresa!""Yes ma'am," I said, as my entire body began shaking out of control. "Why did you tell that little girl to have her mother come ask me if you could go to her party? Now you know I don't believe in sleepovers and all that type of devilishness. Anything can happen." "I didn't tell her to come over, I didn't even know she was coming," I said. "She didn't even tell me in school she was coming over," which was the God's honest truth.  I mustered up some tears as I was afraid of where this conversation was going because my mother was a no nonsense type of woman and what she said was law and her laws could not and would not be changed for anyone.  "Now she told me her daughter done invited ten girls to this sleepover and she told me she gonna be home all night. So because she told me she gonna be home all night, I'm going to let you go this time and this time only, do you hear me?" What? My momma letting me go somewhere other than around the corner to babysit for my Aunt?   I can't believe it.  Maybe there is a God, I thought to myself as I stood there in complete shock, still crying. The cement that was around my feet outside landed on my shoulders when I walked in the house. "I told her, I'm going to drop you off at 6 o'clock tomorrow night and pick you up at 6 am. Do you hear me?" "Yes ma'am," I said.  Now mind you, I'm already 17, but because my mother did not want either of her daughters to be teenage mothers, she kept a tight rein on us and I do mean a tight rein. Wow, I'm still in shock, my mother is actually allowing me to go somewhere; I just can't believe what I'm hearing. As she walked back into her room, I walked ever so slowly back outside. My neighbor had left the house as she knew my mother did not fancy uninvited or unexpected guest. I looked over and saw her peeping out the window as to see if I were OK. I beckoned for her to come over and she came running out. "What happened? I see you've been crying," she said."Yeah, I said, "but these are tears of victory." What do you mean tears of victory?  "Can you believe itshe's going to let me go to Rochelle's sleepover!" "What? I know you're lying," my neighbor said."No, girl, I think she was too embarrassed to say 'no.'""Wow, I'm shocked." "Me too," I said to my neighbor.  "Girl, let me get back in this house and see what she wants me to do so there will be no excuses come tomorrow."  "I know cause she might wake up in the morning and remember what she said and get mad at you."  "I know right," I said, and hurried back in the house.  I went right to the living room.  That's the room where everybody sat and watched TV because back in the day there was only two TVs in the house; one in the living room and one in my mother's room.  I started cleaning like a mad person, dusting off tables, cleaning mirrors, vacuuming the rug; if I saw dirt I cleaned it.  When I finished with the living room, I went and started on the bathroom.  I was a cleaning machine.  School was out for summer break, so I cleaned into the middle of the night so my mother would have no reason to change her mind, and I dared my brother or sister to have dirtied up anything by the time morning came around. Well, it was 5:30 p.m. Friday. I had been watching the clock all day and when the hand reached 5, every minute seemed like one day; that's how slowly time was passing.  I had my pajamas packed, which consisted of some cut off blue jeans that had gotten too short for me cause we were too poor to buy seasonal clothes.  If you could still fit into school clothes, they were cut off during the summer and became summer clothes.  Also in the bag was my toothbrush and hair scarf.  Notice, I did not mention a clean change of clothes for the next day.  Why? Because my mother told me there was no reason to take any clean clothes because she would be there at 6 a.m. to get me and I could shower when I got home.  Finally, my mother came out of her room and said, "Let's go." In my excitement, I tried not to run her over as we walked out of the door.  For the first time in my life I would have an interesting summer break story to share with my friends.  We got in the car and she drove me to my friend's home.  I lived in a small town and to drive from one end of town to the other, took only about 15 minutes, so it took only five minutes for my mother to drive me to my friend's home.  As we pulled up to my friend Rochelle's home, she was standing outside waiting for me. My mother gave me her lecture about being on my best behavior which to me was unnecessary because almost everyone in town worked at the factory where she worked and because they did, they knew her and they also knew her children. Case closed.   It was Friday, July 18, 1986, the best day of my life. I would later learn it would also be written down as the worst day of my life.  As I walked up to Rochelle's door steps, something turned on the inside of me; what I thought was freedom for the first time, was actually an eerie sense of what was to come.  Rochelle hugged me and escorted me into her home.  Just as her mother said, she was home, in the kitchen making punch for the party.  All of the other girls Rochelle had invited were already there; everyone was waiting for me.  Just as teenage girls do at most parties, we started laughing and talking and, of course, sharing storieswell at least they started sharing stories.  Because of my religious background I had no stories to share as I was only allowed to go to school, church, over to my Aunt's, and back home.  When I wanted to go to the store, I had to be chaperoned by either my sister or my brother.  Yep, it was really that bad.  This was my first sleepover and I had no idea what to expect.  After the story sharing finished we all went in the kitchen and ate dinner.  At this time, I heard Rochelle's mother say "I'm going out, I'll be back later." What, no, she can't leave, I said to myself.  She told my mother she would be here all night.  What type of woman would lie to a Christian? A non-Christian I thought. I started getting nervous because my mother was the type of woman who would show up at any time for any reason, but everyone else was having a good time, so I convinced myself to have a good time, too.   We started playing truth or dare.  Questions like, "Have you ever tongue kissed a boy," or "I dare you to call Tony."  I would always take the truth questions because I hadn't done anything so there was nothing for me to hide. But when it came time to me asking questions, I was so naive, I would ask questions like, "Have you ever seen a boy's private enlarged?" All the girls would laugh because I was ashamed of saying "hard" and at that time, I didn't know if it was shame or, that somehow, my mother would magically hear the words I uttered or my fear of what would be the result. I always tried to keep it safe all the way around.  Of course, all the girls would laugh because they knew I didn't know nothing and they also knew I hadn't done nothing.  But, I did have some friends who had done it all and instead of taking the truth questions, they opted for the dare questions.  While we were having a fun game of Truth or Dare, the doorbell rang.  My friend Rochelle jumped up and answered the door.  It was her cousin Sam and some of his friends.  Sam and his friends also attended our school, but Sam had just graduated last month in June and was on his way to college in August.   Sam was the star of the football team, very masculine, and very, very, good looking.  He had all the girls chasing after him.  "What are you guys doing here?" Rochelle asked Sam. "I came to give my favorite cousin her birthday gift," Sam said. "Well, where is it," Rochelle asked Sam.  "It's right here," Sam said, as he told his friends to grab her so he could give her 17 birthday licks as we watched and pretended like we were trying to stop Sam and his friends.  After Rochelle's birthday licks the party really got lively.  Rochelle turned on the record player and turned the music up as loud as it could go.  Everybody started dancing and acting silly, including me. I had never felt so alive, so free, so as my grandmother would say, "fass."Everyone was having a ball dancing and laughing and then out of nowhere, my friend Rochelle says, "Let's go to Kelly's party. We can be back before my mother gets home.  She's at the bar and normally stays until it closes."  Of course everyone was gang ho, everyone except me that is.  "Teresa, you've got to come with us, your mother will never find out," "Rochelle said.  "You've never been to a party, and you've got to experience it before we graduate." Of course all the other girls were egging her on, "Come on Teresa, you can't stay here you party pooper."  But, they didn't know my mother.  I'm sure she would find out I was not inside this house some way or the other and that would be all she wrote for me.  "No, thanks," I said.  "I'm going to stay right here and watch TV while you girls have a blast at Kelly's house."  It didn't take much to convince them because they all left.  Between Rochelle's car and the guys on the football team, they all piled in a vehicle and left me high and dry.  Oh well, I thought to myself, at least I'll have a story to share when I return to school this fall.  While everyone was gone I thought I'd just sit and watch The Twilight Zone, one of my favorites.  I turned off the record player and turned on the TV and plopped myself on the couch.  Just as I got comfortable the doorbell rang.  "Who is it," I asked. "Mr. Davis.," the male voice said on the other side of the door.  I was familiar with this voice as it was my friend Rochelle's father.  Rochelle's parents were divorced, but they had a good relationship from what I could tell being a divorced couple and all.  I opened the door and he walked in.  "How are you Teresa," he asked.  "I'm doing well, Mr. Davis," I said. "Why don't I hear any noise and where is the birthday girl?" he asked?  "Rochelle and the others went to our classmate's party and I decided to stay here so I wouldn't get in any trouble.""Well Teresa, you sound like a very wise young lady; my daughter is too spoiled for her own britches; but I can't fault anyone but me and her mother." "Yes sir," I said, as I listened in silence.   "Well Teresa, you don't have to tell her I stopped over, she already has her gift from me, so I guess I'll be leaving."  He said, "Don't have too much fun here by yourself." "I won't," I said happily. Even though I was alone at Rochelle's house I was still happy. Happy because as a teenager I was experiencing something other teenagers experience even though it was something so small, I thought I would remember it for the rest of my life. But what I didn't know is what was to come, would actually be the thing I would hold on to for years of my lifethe thing that would cause me misery and strife.   







THE AWAKENINGAs I sat back down to continue enjoying The Twilight Zone, the doorbell rang again.  "It must be Mr. Davis," I said to myself, "he must have forgot something." "Who is it?" I asked.  "Open the door Teresa," the male voice said on the other side.  I recognized the voice, it was Sam.  I opened the door. "What did you forget Sam?" I asked?  "Nothing, I just wanted to keep you company," he said, while he looked at me like a farmer does when he's about to slaughter his fattest bull and sell it to the highest bidder. "I don't need any company," I said, "I'm sitting here enjoying this marathon of The Twilight Zone." "I'll sit here and keep you company until the girls get back," Sam said.  "Well, it's not my house so I can't tell you what to do," I said.  I walked back to the couch and got myself comfortable as I was not thinking about Sam.  He came in the living room where I was watching TV and sat in the chair next to me.  "Why are you watching The Twilight Zone?" he asked.  "Because I like it," I said. "Do you have a problem with that?"  "Yea, I'm sure there's a good movie on." "Well you can go back where you came from and find one, cause I'm enjoying this and I will not be turning it," I said as smart as I could possibly sound.  "Teresa, you're no fun," Sam said.  "I'm having all the fun I can stand," I laughed as I took my focus off Sam and placed it back on my TV show.   I noticed Sam looking very oddly, but I didn't think anything of it until he slid, like a snake over to where I was sitting. "Um dude, you can go back over there and sit," I said, "I'd hate for Rochelle and the others to walk in the house and see you sitting next to me, they'd think we planned this,""Planned what?" Sam said. "You sitting here next to me, please move, you are entirely too close to me," I said. "You don't like me being this close to you," Sam said. "No I do not, please move," I said this time with a serious voice.  "Teresa, you know I like you, right?  You are so sexy." "Where is all this coming from, what are you talking about?" I said with hesitation in my voice.  "I'm talking about me and you getting it on" Sam said as he pinned me down on Rochelle's couch.  "Boy, if you don't get off of me, what are you doing," I asked as I started getting forceful with Sam trying to seriously push his 250 pound body off of mine.  "Don't fight it girl, you know you want it," he said. He had become ugly to me in that moment. I had a pair of Levi's 501 jeans on, which were a bit too big and that didn't help me at all as the buttons flew open without hesitation and he ripped them down my legs.  "Get off of me," I kept yelling, "I'm going to tell." but that didn't scare Sam off, he still continued to do what he came to do, to defile me.  "Why are you doing this Sam?" I asked, "You don't have to do this," I said.  "I know, but I want to and you're going to enjoy it," he said."You dirty bastard," I screamed, "Get off of me," I said.  I could feel him shoving his nasty penis into me, even though he was heavier than I was. I still continued to kick and fight, hoping this time, of all times, my all-knowing mother would appear out of the walls, but to my distress she did not come.  Instead, he ripped into my flesh like a wolf who had captured a baby sheep.  I was helpless, but I still continued to kick and scream and by this time, we had fallen off the couch and onto the floor.  It became a real tug of war.  I was not going down like the Titanic without a fight.  If I was going down I was going to give it all my might.  I started clawing into his flesh with my fingernails, biting on his shoulder, which caused him to lose the grip of death he had on me and run out the back door with his pants wrapped around his legs.  "What just happened," I kept asking myself.  "I can't believe this.  Did he really just defile my person?" I asked.  "What am I supposed to do now?" I kept crying.  I ran to Rochelle's back door and made sure Sam was gone and I locked the door so he couldn't get back in.  I gathered my clothes, and ran up to Rochelle's bathroom and jumped in the shower.  I felt so dirty, I kept trying to wash his filth off my body, but it wouldn't go away.  If only I would have gone to the party with Rochelle and the others, this wouldn't have happened, I kept thinking to myself.  Everything my mother tried to keep me from came full circle in one night.  How did this happen, why did this happen. I couldn't stop replaying this evilness in my head.  I heard the doorbell ring and I got nervous.  I looked out the upstairs window and it was Rochelle's father's car.  I ran downstairs crying and he walked in and saw all the stuff knocked over on the coffee table and asked what was going on.  I was crying so profusely he couldn't understand me.  As he managed to calm me down, I was able to tell him what Sam, his nephew, had done to me.  "Mr. Davis," I cried, "What am I supposed to do? I'm scared to tell my mother, will you take me home so you can tell her?" I asked.  "Oh no Teresa, don't do that tonight," Mr. Davis said, "Let me find Sam and talk with him. You stay here until the morning and sometime tomorrow I'll bring Sam and his mother over to talk with you and your mother," Mr. Davis said.  I didn't know what to do, but I figured since Mr. Davis was the adult, what he said, sounded like the right thing to do.  So Mr. Davis hurriedly cleaned up the living room to make it look like nothing happened.  He said he was going to stay until Rochelle and the other girls came in the house in case Sam tried to come back.  "Daddy, what are you doing here?" Rochelle asked.  "I just got here, not too soon before you did.  I came to wish my baby girl happy 17th birthday before the clock struck 12," Mr. Davis said.  Rochelle looked at me, but couldn't see the pain of what just happened in my eyes. She couldn't see the death inside "Teresa, why do you have your pajamas on?" Rochelle asked.  Trying to hold back tears, I said, "I was ready for bed." "Girl, you really don't get out at all, do you Teresa" Rochelle said.  "No, I don't," I replied with an attitude.  I walked out of the living room, where my life had just flashed before my eyes, and I went back upstairs to Rochelle's bedroom.  I started crying again. I could not believe what just happened. Do I stay here like Mr. Davis said or do I go home and tell my mother what happened? I was in a state of confusion. I was so ashamed. How could I let this happen? I couldn't wait for 6 o'clock to get here, and now I can't wait for 6 a.m. to get here.  I heard footsteps coming up the stairs, it was Rochelle.  "Teresa, are you alright?" she asked.  "Not really," I said, "but I guess I have to be," I answered.  "Did something happen I need to tell my mother about?" she said.  "No, nothing happened with your father, he had just walked in right before you guys came," I said.  I dare not ruin Rochelle's birthday with what her cousin Sam did.   "You coming back down to the party?" Rochelle asked, "We're going to stay up all night," she said.  "No," I said, "I just don't feel good, I think it was something I ate."  "Well, if you don't come back downstairs we're all going to come up here with you." "Okay, okay," I said, "Let me wash my face, I'll be right down."  Rochelle walked back downstairs and I went in the bathroom still trying to wash the residue of Sam off my body.  I scrubbed myself so hard, I was bare down there; my skin was chapped by the evil I could not erase.  I was not prepared for what was to come, what evil had I done, something I couldn't prevent.  God, where were you when I needed you? You sat back on your high horse and allowed this to happen, what did I do to you to allow me to be used like this, I'm not equipped, I feel whipped.  The tears flooded down my face as I heard Rochelle calling my name. I mustered enough strength to say, "I'll be right down." The best day of my life had become the worst day of my life.  In ten minutes, he had managed to take away my worth, just like that.  I slid down the stairs like a snake slithers in the heat of the day to find a cool, dark place to rest, out of the sight of its prey.  As Rochelle and the other girls continued to laugh and have fun, I felt like Paul in one of the Sunday School lessons I remembered, where he had been banished to the Isle of Patmos all alone awaiting his fate.  If only they knew what I had just been through.  The torment, the pain, the shame.  I now wear a scarlet letter across my breast, the letter F on my chest.  Fornicator my mother and her church friends, would say.  I told you not to walk that way.  I could hear her voice in my head, making me wish I were dead.  Hurry up tomorrow and come, I'm unraveling at the seams, like a turkey on thanksgiving, I'm overdone.  Unlike earlier as I waited in anticipation for 6 o'clock to come, I now sat in a corner alone, like a prisoner waiting to speak to the warden for a pardon request, while the letter F became bolder across my chest.  How could they not see something was wrong with me? These girls are wrapped in their little world, while I sit here in shame, trying to remember my name.  Will somebody please help me, get back to the state I was in, when I walked through the door, I don't want to be known as the town whore.  As the time ticked slowly by, a tear fell from my eye, but still, no one noticed but me, alone on an island, across the sea.  Somehow, after the treacherous event, I managed to drift off to sleep until I felt Rochelle's mother tap me.  I jumped up and grabbed myself, remembering this nightmare while I slept.  "Teresa, your mother's outside waiting" Rochelle's mother said.  After I came to myself, I gathered my little overnight bag and hurriedly left the little house of horrors and tried not to show the concern of last night on my face.  I got in the car and the first question my mother asked, "Was Rochelle's mother there all night?" "No ma'am," I said, "She went out for a bit, but her father came over while she was gone." There was no lie in what I said, it was the absolute truth, maybe not in that order, but it was the truth.  Even though I wasn't ready or prepared for my mother's jailhouse drilling, I quickly remembered who my mother was and all the questions she could ask.  I think she rolled off twenty questions in our five-minute ride home at 6 a.m.  When I got home, I ran upstairs to my room and got back in the shower, trying to scour Sam's filth from my body.  How was Mr. Davis going to tell this to my mother? Should I tell her so she won't be disgusted when he comes over? Lord, what should I do? I'm so confused.  I know an hour or more passed when I heard my mother yelling upstairs to turn the water off.  I was still trying to rid my flesh of the evilness known as Sam.  I was home in the safety of my own room and I decided to look at the ceiling to pass the time.  I dare not go downstairs back into the war zone and be bombarded with questions from my mother.  Instead, I just decided to wait in silence for Mr. Davis, Sam, and his mother.  As the clock slowly ticked away I kept looking out the window for Mr. Davis's car.  By this time it was well after lunch and no sign of Mr. Davis.  My mind started wandering; do I tell my mother and risk ridicule or do I keep it to myself.  Should I trust Mr. Davis to tell Sam's mother or do I tell his mother myself?  The questions played over and over in my head like a broken record, and then the feelings of guilt started.  Why didn't you go with the others to the party? Why did you have to stay home alone?  You were so anxious to stay the night, you brought this on yourself.   Had you left with the other girls, you wouldn't be sitting here feeling stupid.  The thoughts continued to play in my head.  As I looked out the window for what seemed like the one thousandth time, I saw Rochelle's father's car pulling up to our house.  My heart stopped beating for a full minute I'm sure as my head suddenly started pounding. My feet got weak and I fell on my bed.  But while all that was going on with me, I still heard the doorbell.  I was like a zombie in a trance, as I walked downstairs to see who was at the door.  When I peeped out of the curtains on the back door, it was Rochelle. My head really starting pounding as I started thinking how my mother was going to react at the news of her daughter being defiled at a sleepover she didn't want her to be at in the first place. As I slowly opened the door, my feet were frozen in place and I was torn between opening the door and running back to my room from either the shame I was carrying or the guilt in my head."Hi, Teresa, my father is outside and he wants to see if you can come to my house?" Rochelle said.  What does she mean come to her house, I thought. Mr. Davis was supposed to bring Sam and his mother to my house.  What should I do, oh no, I'm lost.   As thoughts kept coming to my head, my mouth quickly said, "Let me go ask my mother, hold on."  My feet slowly walked to my mother's bedroom where she was sitting in her chair watching TV which was her favorite Saturday past time.  "Ma," I said softly, "Rochelle's here and her father wants to take us to dinner for her birthday, is it OK if I go?" I asked.  Getting out of my mother's house without a valid excuse was not going to happen and I certainly was not going to be the bearer of bad news.  Especially since she went against her own values to let me go to Rochelle's sleepover.  "Yea, I guess it's OK," she said.  As I walked like a turtle back to the door, I went upstairs to my room and grabbed my purse.  Thoughts of last night's incident continued to flash back in my head.  I walked to the door and left with Rochelle.  As I walked outside, I noticed there was no one in the car, but Mr. Davis.  Where was Sam and his mother? I thought.  Why didn't he bring them to my house? Was he taking me over to Sam's house? All these thoughts were plaguing me out of control, but I kept silent and got in Rochelle's father's car.  "Hello Teresa," Mr. Davis said.  "Hello Mr. Davis," I replied.   I dared not question Mr. Davis as I was taught that was disrespectful to question an adult, so I sat in the car as quiet as a church mouse until we arrived at a house unfamiliar to me.  Was this Sam's house? Why would he bring me to Sam's house? I don't think I can look at his face.  Why did he bring me to Sam's house? By this time thoughts were running through my head like a whirlwind.  As I got out of his car, my shoulders became very heavy; so heavy that my feet felt like they were tied to bricks.  "Come on in the house Teresa, so we can talk," Mr. Davis said.  I can't believe this, had he told Rochelle what happened last night?  If he did, why is he being so quiet, I thought.  I kept walking, slowly, but surely into this unknown house.  As we walked up the stairs I noticed Mr. Davis put his keys in the lock and went in.  "Come in the kitchen" he said.  To my shock, Sam was sitting at the kitchen table.  The look on his face pierced my heart and caused me to shatter like glass into a thousand tiny pieces.  I wanted to cry.  I wanted to scream, but instead I got mad.  "What is he doing here?" I yelled.  "Why did you bring me here?" I asked.  "Where is his mother?" I yelled.  Rochelle never said a word.  I broke down and started crying as I thought how mad my mother was going to be when she found out what happened.  "Teresa, please, sit down," Mr. Davis said.  "I talked with Sam last night and he said, he told you he was coming back over when the girls left."  "What are you talking about? I had no idea he was coming back when they left, stop lying," I said, trying not to jump over the table and pull his tongue out through his ears.  "As you know Teresa, when I walked in, no one was here but you. Now, I do believe Sam came over, but he said he did not attack you." Mr. Davis was talking, but I was not hearing the words that were coming out because it sounded like he was speaking a foreign language. "Are you listening to me young lady?" I heard him this time. "Sam said he told you he was coming back which is why you opened the door." "I opened the door because it was not my house, it was his aunt's house, so why would I not open the door?" I yelled.  "Yes, but if you were at your own home and he would have come over, would you have opened the door?" Mr. Davis asked.  "Of course not," I said, still crying.  "So Teresa, if you wouldn't have opened the door for him at your own home, why did you feel comfortable opening the door for him at someone else's home?" Mr. Davis asked.  "Rochelle, I can't believe you, why are you not saying anything? I thought you were my friend?" I yelled.  "Teresa, I don't know what happened. When I came upstairs last night and asked you if you were alright, you said you were." Rochelle said.  "I don't want to get involved, because I don't know what happened," she said.  "Sam, why are you lying on me? You know you took advantage of me.  I would never have sex with you," I said.  "I'm going to the police, get me out of here," I yelled.  "Teresa, as I see it, it will be your word against his word," Mr. Davis said.  "There was no one here to witness what happened and Rochelle said she asked you were you alright and you told her 'yes'," He went on, "What are we all supposed to think? Sam is getting ready to go to college and might have an opportunity to play professional football; do you think I'm going to risk his chances over what might be a lie?" Mr. Davis asked.  I couldn't believe what I was hearing.  My friend Rochelle, who I've known since the third grade, turned her back on me.  "I guess that's what they mean when they say blood is thicker than water, huh Rochelle." I said, "I can't believe you would sit here and pretend I'm some sort of whore who sleeps around." I yelled as I got madder and madder.  "You know I don't go no where and I wasn't going to risk getting caught with you and the other girls at some party. I thought you were my friend, but I see you're not," I said.   "Well, I suggest you keep this to yourself Teresa, because no one's going to believe you, especially since you opened the door," Mr. Davis said. "You invited him in and people would think you knew what was going to happen," he said.  I ran out of Mr. Davis' front door still crying because I was in total shock at the deception they had planned between themselves.  I couldn't believe my friend I'd known since the third grade would betray me like that.  I couldn't believe Sam would sit there as though he was an innocent bystander waiting to give his testimony to a jury who had been brought by the prosecutor.  What had I done to deserve this, I asked myself.  I go to church and every time the church doors open I'm there, maybe not of my own free will, but I'm there.  God I'm so confused, what do I do? I asked myself.  I need some help.  As I walked back to my house still crying and in a state of confusion, I was more concerned about whether or not I was going to tell my mother about last night.  Would she think as Mr. Davis did, that it was planned?  I could hear her now.  It was all planned, from Rochelle's mother coming over to ask, to Rochelle and the other girls leaving the house and me staying there by myself.  As I got closer to the house, I thought about running in front of a car and just ending it all.  Who was going to believe me? Mr. Davis didn't and surely my mother wouldn't.   I'm stuck to hold this nightmare to myself.  As I got closer to our front door, it looked like I was walking up to a dungeon, the place where I would be sentenced to spend the rest of my living days.  I started walking slower, and slower. With every step I took, the door became farther and farther away until finally, I opened the door and standing there looking me straight in my eyeballs was Eric. 







TORN BETWEEN TWO LOVERS "Hello Eric," I said, wanting to yell at the top of my lungs. The dagger that pierced my heart causing me to want to die an eternal death was a tragic event I had suppressed from my adolescence, but was now fully erected with me standing here between death and life.  Brian represented life and all that was good while Eric represented death and all that was bad.  I had a flashback of something that happened to me years ago.  I never disclosed the defilement that was done to me to my mother like I never disclosed my defilement with Eric to Brian.  What had I done? Why would my mind revert back in time to the evilness that was done to me, something I kept as a secret? Standing there in the fitness center with Brian holding my hand and Eric's blank grin staring through my hollow body, I had come to a fork in the road.  Seeing Brian talking to Eric not knowing what his precious bride had done behind his back and the feelings of guilt and shame I carried from my past, had come full circle.  The bricks tied to my shoulders all these years, had fallen on my heart and suddenly, without warning, I broke down and started boo-hoo crying like I did at my cousin's funeral, not wanting to go inside the church where his dead body lay because I knew that would be the last time I would look on his face.  "What's wrong with your wife?" I heard Eric ask Brian.  "I don't know, man, it must be that time of the month," Brian said, clueless.  "You know how women are, very emotional creatures." Eric said.  And he was right, Eric knew more than Brian, but he sat there with his smug grin and his brown eyes piercing through my flesh.  He caused this, I thought to myself.  He awakened my flesh, and reminded me of the evilness that happened to me years ago.  I prided myself on not letting go, keeping my flesh under subjection to my command.  I can't believe I let him use me.  I became angry and confused and by the time Brian caught up to me, I blurted out to him, "I was raped." I had never admitted that to anyone, ever.  How did it all suddenly just flow out my mouth like raging waters, freed by a broken river dam?  "What do you mean you were raped?" Brian asked. "Was it Eric? I saw how he was looking at you, I'ma kill him!" Brian said.  And before I could explain myself Brian was running back towards the fitness center.  O no, I thought, no, no, no.  I can't believe this.  What is happening to me?  My life is going down the drain; this is not how I thought my marriage would be.  Help me Lord, please, I screamed.  As I looked down the corridor I could still see Brian running toward the fitness center and Eric was walking unsuspecting toward him. "Stop Brian, I need to talk to you," I yelled, to no avail.  He kept running and before I knew it, he tackled Eric to the ground, and I suppose Eric must have thought I told Brian what happened because he and Brian were fighting like tigers and bears to the last breath.  "Brian, no, it's not what you think," I said, but I could hear Eric telling Brian that he didn't know I was married to him, but Brian was not listening. "You raped my wife man, how could you rape a woman, man, are you that hard up?" Brian said. "What are you talking about dog, I didn't rape your wife, I knew her before you did," Eric said.  "How could you go against the shield? We're supposed to be frat brothers?" Brian said."Man, I didn't know Teresa was your wife, and I didn't rape her, I saw her on the elevator one night and she was feeling lonely, man, one thing led to another, it was not planned."Eric said. By this time, I was standing over them, covered in leaves, guilt, and shame still crying.  I couldn't believe what I was seeing.  How could this happen to me? God, why are you allowing my life to unfold in front of me? What have I done so terribly wrong?  Brian jumped off of Eric, "Teresa, is this true?" he asked, "Have you slept with him since we've been married? Did he rape you or not?" he kept coming with the questions just like my mother would have had I told her what happened that night, trying to find fault in me.  Why did she hate me so, I asked myself, and the hate I'd felt from my mother all these years, now possessed Brian.  "Yes" I said.  "Eric was my lover before I met you," I said, "It was the night I called you about getting my job and you dismissed me," I said.  Out of anger, Brian grabbed my shoulders, "I can't believe you Teresa, how could you do this to me?" he asked, "How could you do this to us?" he asked.  "I loved you like I never loved a woman. I'm through with you Teresa," he said as he walked away from me.  I sat there frozen in time, trying to figure out how and when did my love affair with Eric end and my love affair with Brian began.  How could my mind still be tied to Eric when my heart was tied to Brian . . . or was it? Why at that very moment did my mind go back to the time I was raped?  How could I suppress that feeling all these years and now tell Brian with such ease?  Lord, what is to become of me?  







THE SCARLET LETTERHow I ended up in our apartment I do not know, but I sat there on the couch crying and thinking about my beloved Brian.  What had I done, and how did my mind go back in time?  I can't stop thinking about how Brian found out about my indiscretion.  I had every intention of telling him, someday, maybe not this day.  As I sat there sobbing uncontrollably, the time was dragging by.  I kept getting up and going to the window looking for any sign of Brian, but he was nowhere in sight.  Oh Lord, please keep my husband safe.  I'm the one whose done wrong, I thought to myself.  I'm a terrible wife.  How could I keep such a secret from the man who loves me and the man I love? Why did I feel the need to bury this pain inside so deep? Why did I not feel secure in telling him what happened to me? Why did I keep running back to Eric? Was I not sexually satisfied with Brian? Yes, I love Brian, then why do I always go crawling back to Eric?  Why does he have such a hold on me? I don't love him, I love Brian.  I kept looking out the window hoping to see a shadow of what might be Brian, but I saw only leaves as it had started getting cold in Chicago.  It was late October and the weather had changed drastically.  He was out there with only his jogging suit on.  Where could he be, I thought to myself.  I turned on the TV hoping it would help the time pass faster.  I can't believe our day started at the altar and it's ending with us torn apart.  I can't take this.  This is a nightmare.  The one man who truly loved me for me was gone and I caused him to be gone.  I started to call Brian's mother, but as I picked up the phone I heard the doorknob twist.  I hung up the phone and nervously sat back on the couch.  It was Brian.  "I'm sorry, I wanted to tell you but I didn't know how," I said.  "Was it his voice I heard in your dorm room the day I came to visit you?" Brian asked.  "What are you talking about?" I asked.  I knew exactly what he was asking, but I didn't want to acknowledge his question.  I needed more time to think how to answer his question.  "I said, was it his voice I heard in your dorm room the day I came to visit you on campus?"  I broke down crying again.  I don't know why.  Maybe it was because my world was crumbling down around me and for once, I was not in charge.  "Answer me, Teresa" he said with a low roar.  "Yes, it was him, but Brian, I promise you, nothing happened that day.  He came to my room unexpectedly and I was trying to get him to leave, that's when you knocked on the door," I said."Do you expect me to believe that? You've been making a fool out of me behind my back all this time. I loved you and I thought you loved me. Why would you marry me if you were still sleeping with him?" he asked.  "I was not still sleeping with him" I said.  "How many times Teresa? How many times have you committed adultery with him? How many times?" Brian asked.  By this time he had his back turned to me not truly wanting to hear my answer, but needing to hear my answer.  "Since we've been married, one time," I said.  What do you mean, "One time since we've been married," he asked, "You mean you slept with him while we were engaged?" he asked.  "No, I did not sleep with him while we were engaged," I said, "I was sleeping with him when you first started calling me." I said.  "I just can't believe what I'm hearing from you.  You were fornicating while I was showing you interest and then you were committing adultery while I was away making life easy for you? I just don't know what to think about you Teresa. I thought I knew you.  Did I marry a stranger?" he asked.  Everything he said was true.  I couldn't believe the things I did and what I was capable of doing.  I probably should not have gotten married, but I thought I loved Brian.  I thought for sure I was over Eric.  But why was it so easy for me to keep allowing him to come in and out of my life.  "Brian, I know it may be hard for you to believe, but I do love you," I said.  "Teresa, love does not act the way you have over these months I've known you," Brian said. "How do you think I'm going to get over thinking of my wife with another man, not once but God knows how many times?" Brian asked.  "I honestly just don't know what to think about you or this marriage. I've been completely honest with you since day one.  I told you I had a past and I was leaving it there.  I thought you were going to do the same. I thought we both stood before your Pastor and said 'I Do,' but I must have been the only one who took our vows seriously. I don't know if I'll be able to get over this Teresa.  This is the ultimate betrayal." Brian said.  He walked in our bedroom and I walked behind him still crying.  My world was slowly closing in on me.  It was not until this very moment, that I realized how much he truly meant to me.  Was it because I was on the verge of losing him or the fact that my past had caught up to me? I wasn't certain, but I did know I loved him like I had never loved any man.  I tried to convince him that my indiscretion with Eric was only once after our wedding vows, but he was not hearing it.  He started throwing clothes in his suitcase.  "Where are you going?" I asked.  "Away from you," he said."But what about our vows?" I asked. "What about them?" he asked. "You should have been thinking about those before you ended up in bed with another man, time after time," he said.  Hearing him say those harsh but true words pierced my heart as well as my ears.  "Please don't leave me Brian, I love you," I said, still crying.  "You don't love me," he said, "You don't know what love is." "Brian, if you walk out on me, you're proving that I'm not worthy enough to fight for," I said. Where did I muster up the nerve to try and make it about me?  I couldn't believe what just came out of my mouth.  I was desperate.  I wanted him.  I needed him.  "What I'll be proving is how big of a fool I've been for you.  Thinking you were home being a good Godly wife, while I was being a Godly husband. I can't stand to look at you Teresa. I've got to get out of this apartment.  I have hate in my heart for you right now, and that's not of God. You've taken me to a place I thought I'd never go and certainly not by someone I've loved with my whole body and soul. I committed to you, but you never committed to me," he said.  I was sinking lower and lower in the pit of death I created.  "Please help me Brian.  Maybe I don't know how to love you like you deserve, but I want to try. Please help me," I begged.  "Then you told me he raped you and had me charging after him with such rage in my heart I wanted to kill that man. Why would you do that? Are you that deceptive?"  "Maybe I deceived you about how many times I slept with Eric, but I didn't lie about being raped."  I fell to the bed from exhaustion.  Exhaustion from holding this dark secret in my heart for years.  Exhaustion from finally being able to free myself of this evil.  "Teresa, what do you mean you've been holding this secret? Are you saying you were raped and you never told anyone? Why would you do that? Why didn't you go to the police? Why didn't you tell your mother? I seriously don't understand you," Brian said.  "Is that why your circle is so small? You don't trust anyone? But that can't be it; you must trust Eric; you keep sleeping with him. What's that all about?" he asked.  "I don't know what it's about, but I need you to help me," I said pitifully.  Brian put his suitcase down and came and sat next to me on the bed where I had buckled under all the weight I had been carrying that I thought would never come back up again.  "Teresa, I love you, you must know that.  When I first laid eyes on you, I knew you were the one.  When I stood before the Pastor and said 'I do,' I was serious.  I had no idea our marriage would be tested in such a way as this and we haven't even been married six months.  What hurts most is, on our honeymoon night, I felt you flinch and tense up, I didn't know why then, but now that I know you were raped, I understand. How could you keep something so life altering like rape from me? You have crushed my very soul and as much as I want to help you, I don't know if I can. I'm not going to leave you in your fragile state of mind, because as much as I want to hate you right now, I can't. I'm going to sleep in the front room and let you have the bed. I need to be alone to think about what I'm going to do about our relationship and you need to think about why you thought you could love me and another man at the same time. Good night," he said, as he closed the door behind him. I couldn't believe what I managed to hide for five years had erupted like a volcano out of my mouth. Why did this evil all of a sudden spring forth from the depths of my soul? I couldn't let my husband go to sleep mad at me. I remembered what Sister Jeffries said, "Never go to bed angry because it gives the devil time to brew up more thoughts and you wake up angrier than you did when you went to sleep."I tiptoed to the door and as quietly as I could, I opened it and Brian was sitting at the dining room table reading his Bible.  What could I say about this great man God gave me to?  After everything that happened, he was reading his Bible.   If I didn't know then, I knew now, just how much this man loved me and loved God.  I walked over and sat at the dining room table with him.  "Will you pray with me please?" I asked, but he didn't look at me and neither did he respond to my request.  "If you won't pray with me, as my husband, at least do it as the Evangelist you are" I said.  I was desperate and I knew how serious Brian was about being a servant of God.  "I can't pray with you Teresa, I can't pray for myself," he said as tears starting falling from his eyes.  "I feel betrayed by you and I'm sitting here asking God to show me what to do as I honestly want to walk out that front door and leave you here," he said. "My head is saying you have too much baggage and I don't know if I want to stick around while you unload it on me." "But we're a team" I said.  I grabbed Brian's hand and I started praying the only prayer that came to mind, The Lord's Prayer.  "Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. They kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: for thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Amen." He kept crying and I started crying; then he asked me a question I had never been asked before, did I want his heart, or did I want his attention? Wow, no man ever asked me that.  I didn't even know how to respond.  I guess I didn't know the difference because I was doing everything Eric wanted me to do to try and keep his attention, but it only worked when we were having sex.  He never gave me his heart and I didn't realize it until just now.  I never did anything to get Brian's attention, but yet, he gave me his heart.  "Brian, I'm at a loss for words, I can honestly say, I want your heart as well as your attention." "Teresa," he said, "I think you're so damaged that you don't know what you want." "Maybe I was the distraction you used to get over Eric. I don't want to be a distraction; I want to be your main attraction.  Do you remember the night I called and I shared with you about the dream I had of the baby?" he asked. "Yes" I said.  "I felt in my spirit something was wrong then.  When God showed me the baby in ICU I knew it was our marriage, but I had no idea it was this bad.  I prayed for you, before I met you and the night I saw you, I knew you were the one.  I chased you so hard, until I went to bed thinking of you.  When I woke up every morning, I prayed for you.  When I went to bed at night, I prayed for you.  I could have treated you like Eric and acted on the lustful impulses from the enemy, but I didn't.  I kept myself from you so you would know how a real man loves a woman.  Teresa, the Bible says, 'But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed.' You lusted for Eric after you told me you loved me." As I sat and listened to Brian pour out his heart to me, I cried from the depths of my soul.  I really did want to be free, but I didn't know how bruised and torn I really was.  I hid those feelings inside and they never died; they multiplied.  "What can I do," I cried. "How can I prove my love to you?" "You can prove your love to me, but you first have to prove it to yourself," Brian said.  He picked up his suitcase and headed to our bedroom.  I got up and followed him in the room.  "Teresa," he said, "when I empty my suitcase, you have to promise to empty yours." I knew he was talking about my emotional baggage.  Everything I held inside to protect people was killing me alive.  While Brian started unpacking his suitcase, I went and got a notepad and started writing down the times I slept with Eric after I met Brian and I asked myself, "Why?"  Why did I need this man's attention when it was plain that he was never going to give me his heart?  Why did sleeping with him make me feel loved when I knew he didn't love me? Why was it so easy for me to drop everything to be with him? I started asking myself questions I should have asked before I said "I Do" to Brian as it is unfair for him to love me when I don't even know if I love myself.  Thoughts flooded my mind as I went back in time to a place I thought I had erased.  Memories of things that happened to me, frozen in history, God help me.  Brian came and sat next to me, gently grabbed my hand and said, "I'm sorry" "Why are you sorry?" I asked him.  "I'm sorry because I said we would leave our past in the past and create our own future, but I failed to realize we can't create a future if we don't heal our wounds from the past."  God, this man is too good to be true I thought.  "Thank you," I said, "Thank you for loving me unconditionally."  As he held my hand, he did what he'd done the last few months of our marriageled us in prayer. I truly felt unworthy of the love of this man.  I deserved somebody like Eric, but God chose to give me Brian.  He said goodnight. I said goodnight.  







THE MORNING AFTER PILLWhen I finally woke up, Brian was in the kitchen cooking.  It was almost noon.  Even though my eyes fell asleep, my mind didn't as thoughts ran through my head all night.  I threw on my robe and walked in the kitchen where Brian was.  "Good morning love" Brian said.  "Good morning," I replied.  "You were sleeping so good I didn't want to disturb you and I was hungry.  Are you ready to eat?" Brian asked.  "Yes, I'm hungry" I said.  My darling husband was a great cook.  When he fixed breakfast he usually went all out.  Bacon, eggs, biscuits, sausage, grits and sometimes even pancakes and this morning was no different.  I sat down at the table and he served me breakfast like I usually serve him.  We started a tradition of holding hands and staring each other in the eyes every time we sat down to eat. "I just love you" I said to Brian, "Because I love you" he said.  "I'm not going to bring up yesterday's events, but sometime this week we've got to talk about everything that happened," Brian said.  "Of course dear," "I'm ready," I said to myself.  "This breakfast is delicious," I said to quickly change the subject.   "I know how you enjoy breakfast and I wanted to show you my love for you has not changed." That's the type of man I had, so thoughtful of me.  It was unreal.  As I opened my mouth to say something, I started feeling queasy and I ran to the bathroom and started throwing up.  "As a man of God, I've got to apologize to my frat brother Eric" Brian said.  Did I just hear him say what I thought I heard? He needs to apologize to Eric? For what! Why does he need to apologize to Eric? I'm his wife; he apologized to me; that's enough.  What does Eric have to do with this, I asked myself as I continued throwing up in the toilet.  I washed my face and ran back in the kitchen.  "Did you say you need to apologize to Eric?" I asked.  "Yes love, I need to apologize to him.  I let my flesh take over and that was ungodly of me.  I need to apologize to him so I can be free."  I still, couldn't believe what I was hearing.  What does he need to be free about? I'm the one with all the dirt.  So what you tried to kill a man, you were doing it for me.  "Brian, why do you need to apologize to Eric when you did nothing wrong?" I asked.  "Yes, Teresa, I was wrong.  I started a fight with an innocent man.  He did nothing to me, you did. He didn't know you were my wife, you did. He didn't know we were married, you did. He was innocent, but I tried him as guilty, and for that I need to apologize." he said.  "When I finish eating breakfast I'm going downstairs to talk to him," he said.  "Hopefully he will forgive me," In that moment, I realized I did not know Jesus like my husband knew him and I needed a little more Jesus in my life.  "Well, I'm not ready to forgive him or forget what he did to me," I said very arrogantly.  "What he did to you?" Brian asked.  "What did he do to you?" He asked again.  "What do you mean what did he do to me," I asked.  "Yes" Brian said.  "I would like to know what did Eric do to you?" Hmmmm, I sat there thinking about all the times I slept with him and how many times it was forced.  I thought about how many times I called him but he didn't answer.  I thought about all the times in college and said to myself, I better leave well enough alone.  "I don't know Brian, but I'm still not ready to apologize to him." I said. "Well, when you're ready to accept your part in this you'll know and it will be time." Brian said. He got up from the table and went in the room to get dressed.  I sat at the table thinking about the pill I was not yet able to swallow.  The pill of my own betrayal to the man I said I would love until death do we part.  The pill of knowing it was all in the open, but yet, I still wasn't ready to confess my wrongdoing.  The pill that my husband had a love for God that I didn't have, but I wanted and needed to have.  Brian's love and devotion to God was nothing I had ever witnessed. I was learning so much about love and forgiveness from him I couldn't help but soften up.  I used to think I was such a good Christian until he came into my life.  I was sitting at the table thinking about how terrible I really was when Brian said he was going to Eric's apartment to see if he would talk with him and he walked out the door.  I couldn't believe everything that transpired yesterday and my eyes were starting to open and I was beginning to see myself.  My ugly self.  I was filled with hatred toward Sam.  Filled with hatred toward my mother.  Filled with hatred towards Mr. Davis.  Filled with hatred toward Rochelle.  The bitterness I held in my heart all these years had turned into hate and it was destroying my soul.  I had fallen into a dark hole filled with the lust of my flesh, the lust of my eyes, and the pride of life. Even though I was going to church with Brian, I was still far from God's truth. I was beginning to see why I kept allowing Eric to come in and out of my life. I was beginning to see why I wanted to have sex with him. I was beginning to see why I associated sex with love. For the first time in my life, I was seeing myself as the wretched person I was.  How could I? Why would I? Why did I?  I kept asking myself.  I ran and grabbed the notepad I was writing on last night and started looking over the questions I asked myself.  I started reflecting on what Mrs. Jeffries said in First Corinthians; even though I wasn't married to Eric, my soul didn't know, and when we had sex we became one like a husband and his wife.  I formed a soul tie with Eric that had become hard for me to break; how was I going to shake this man? I frantically started writing in my notebook about our first encounter and how he of all men was able to arouse my flesh.  I started thinking how was I able to bury those feelings after Sam defiled me, but when Eric came along, my flesh was awakened.  I was writing like a mad scientist who had just discovered the formula for the cure of a world disease.  In the midst of my writing, Brian came in and I was sitting at the kitchen table.  "I'm back love," he said. "He wasn't home so I left the phone number on a slip of paper and slid it under his door.  Maybe he'll call me when he gets it," Brian said.  "Maybe," I said, still unimpressed with the whole idea of him apologizing.  I need a lot more Jesus, I thought to myself.  "What are you up to?" Brian asked, "Are you feeling OK? "Yeah, I'm OK" I said.  "Why do you ask?" "I noticed you got sick during breakfast this morning and didn't finish your food.  That's unlike you love," he said.  "Yeah, I think it was the stress of the day and not getting much sleep last night.  Maybe the grease from the bacon didn't sit well on my stomach" I said.  "OK, Teresa, why don't you go and get dressed so we can talk" Brian said.  I took my notepad with me to the room and got dressed.  Was I finally ready and able to talk about the defilement that happened to me years ago? God, can I release this pain, this shame I feel? Will he truly understand? All these thoughts raced through my head as I slowly got dressed so I could free myself of the bondage that has held me for years.  Was I ready to relive this nightmare that I hadn't shared? Was I willing to let go of this pain, I had masked from my past?  As I walked out of the room the phone rang. I heard Brian say he'd be there shortly.  "That was Pastor Raymond on the phone, he wants to meet with me at the church in an hour," Brian said, "to discuss my schedule for the month."  "OK, while you're at the church I'll run by the office and pick up some files and work from home the next few days," I said.  "I'll bring us some chicken home for dinner if that's alright," I said.  "Yes dear, that's fine with me," Brian replied.  He grabbed his coat, I grabbed mine and we walked out the door together.  He got in his car and I got in mine.  My mind would not stop replaying the events of yesterday.  I was still very much disturbed at how easily I blurted out the word, "raped." Until yesterday I could never make myself admit I was raped.  Why now was I able to admit what happened to me five years ago? All these thoughts started racing through my head like I was on the fastest roller coaster I've ever been on.  It all had become too much for me; the stress, the depression, the anxiety.  My head started spinning out of control and so did the steering wheel, just like my life everything was flashing before my very eyes. I blacked out under the pressure of what was to come. 







MOMA'S BABY, DADDY'S MAYBEI'm in a heavy black cloud. I can't see anything. I can't hear anything. Am I dead, I ask myself.  I can only feel the heaviness of my body, so heavy I can barely move.  I can't remember how to open my eyes.  Then I start to hear noises. The buzz of machines, the clicking of what sounds likes feet near me. I start to hear quiet talking, and I lie still.  Straining to hear and make sense of what's going on. Am I dead, I ask myself.  I feel light shining on my closed eyes, a glow, but I still struggle to open them.  Is it the light from heaven I've heard about all my life I feel on my eyes? The light gets closer and closer as I can feel the heat on my eyelids.  Someone is bending over me, saying my name. Too weak to speak, I bat my eye again as the voice I recognize as my husband's continues to call my name.  He says my name again and suddenly I'm able to open my eyes.  Words do not come out of my mouth, but instead I blink.  "Teresa, say something" I heard Brian say.  I cleared my throat to yell, but instead only a faint whisper came from my mouth as I said, "My head is pounding, what happened?"  "You're in the hospital. Paramedics said you must have passed out behind the wheel because there were no other cars involved. A good Samaritan called the paramedics and waited until they arrived on the scene. The paramedics said your blood pressure was very low. The officer on the scene got your ID out of your purse and someone from the hospital called the house and I rushed right down when I got the call.  The doctor has taken blood work, but he won't be back until the morning, so you just need to keep resting," Brian said.  "It's been an eventful few days and maybe you blacked out from the stress you've been under." He came and sat on the bed next to me and whispered, "I love you; I would be lost without you. I'm going to sit over here in this chair.  I want to be here when the doctor comes in the morning.  Maybe you've been under too much stress," he said.  I was too weak to talk, too much was going on. My life was unraveling at the seams and there was nothing I could do about it. I was no longer in charge of my life and I didn't like it. I started crying thinking what had I done so wrong to deserve this sad song. I cried myself to sleep because the pain was so deep. What did the morning hold for me, misery and defeat or sweet peace?The next morning, as I lay in the hospital bed, I felt a hand rubbing softly across mine, it was Brian gently trying to wake me up.  "Good morning dear," I said.  "Good morning love, are you hungry?" he asked. "A little bit," I said. "I'm going to walk down to the cafeteria and bring you something back," he said. "Maybe by the time I come back the doctor will be making his rounds.I whispered "OK"Just as fate would have it, as Brian headed to the door, in walked the doctor.  "Good morning Mrs. Hodges, were you trying to kill your husband? He's been a nervous wreck young lady," the doctor said.  "Well, it looks like you blacked out because you were dehydrated," he said, "which is common in your condition," he said.  "What condition?" Brian asked the doctor. "Oh you didn't know, your wife is pregnant according to her blood work, and morning sickness causes dehydration.  Vomiting, increased sweating, and more frequent urination speed up the loss of water and electrolytes.  And when a woman feels nauseated, she tends to not want to drink fluids which makes it even more difficult to replace lost nutrients." He went on to say, "Congratulations are in order."  And as luck would have it, in walks Pastor Raymond to hear the whole conversation.  What a web we weave when we practice to deceive, I thought to myself.  I must be the most foolish woman on the planet.  Having a perfectly great man who loves me, but yet I keep repeating history sleeping with a man who could care less about me.  "We're going to need to keep Mrs. Hodges another day to keep check on her blood pressure and as long as it's normal, we'll let her go home tomorrow," the doctor said.  I think Brian had stopped listening after the doctor said I was pregnant as I could see worry by the look in his eyes. "Congratulations son," Pastor Raymond said, "having a child is a great blessing.  The Bible says, "Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them: they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate." The perfect scripture I said to myself, they shall not be ashamed, he definitely was not speaking about me, I thought to myself.  "Yes sir, Pastor Raymond, a child is a blessing from God," Brian managed to say with little feeling.  He couldn't help but wonder if he was the father or if Eric was the father, but today, neither of us would find out. Pastor Raymond stayed over an hour talking to us about the joys and pains that come with children. He should know, I thought to myself; he and Sister Raymond had nine children so their quiver should be running over with happiness."I know this isn't the appropriate time to bring this up," Brian said, "but I need us to take a paternity test." Why is all this happening to me, I asked myself.  My husband has no confidence in me and I have none in myself.  All the hours I spent talking with Sister Jeffries, my Pastor's wife, and what she said still didn't sink in.  I remember she said, "A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones." Yeah, why can I remember that now, I thought to myself.  I should have tried harder when it came to Eric.  Wow, as I think about everything Sister Jeffries told me about how hard it becomes each time you sleep with a man and how you leave a piece of yourself with him and he gets in your mind and you start memorizing his talk, his walk, his smell.  She was so right.  I didn't even acknowledge Brian's request as I knew in my heart of hearts that I was pregnant and I wasn't even sure who the father was.  I had become the Queen of Deception and didn't even know when or how it happened.  I don't know if I was hoping I wasn't pregnant, but all the signs were there.  I guess I was thinking if I ignored the signs, it would not be real.  But it was real.  I had a baby growing in me and I didn't even know how it was able to survive through all the lies I held inside.I could hear Brian breathing.  I didn't know if it was disgust, hurt, shame, or content, but I could hear him.  "I'm sorry," I said for the umpteenth time.  "Sin has a way of dragging us, unexpectedly to our death," he said.  "I tried so hard to be honest with you the night at the restaurant when I shared my story.  I knew you were dealing with something, but the Spirit kept telling me to share and so I did, hoping you were listening. But I don't think you were," he said.  "Your life is my life and my life is yours," he said.  "When we said 'I Do' we said it before God, not only the people who were in attendance. When I said 'I Do' I said it to our future, not your past."  He walked over to the bed, "I never married thinking it was going to be easy and neither did I think it would be this hard so soon. I'm going home tonight so I can think in peace, this is just too much for me," Brian said as he walked out of the room.  What kind of person was I?  All of this from one kiss.  My heart stopped beating for a moment as I felt like I was passing out again, but it was the weight from my sin.  The thickness of the air in the room had begun to choke me.  I couldn't believe the man I loved, the man who loved me, said he had to go home so he could think in peace.  I was such a terrible person that he had no peace in my presence.  What type of wife was I? I couldn't say I didn't know any better because I did, maybe not to the letter but I did know better.  I slumped over to hear the heart beating inside me.  Brian was right; it's not just my life. I am somebody's wife. What was I going to do, how was I going to make this right? Was it even possible to come back from this hell I was in? I turned over and started praying to God again. Only you know Lord what shall become of me, this misery I created, a sinful life I should have hated. Help me I said, before I drifted off to sleep.When I opened my eyes the next morning Brian was sitting in the chair. "Good morning love," he said, "I came back while you were asleep last night. We're in this love together," he said. "While I was praying last night, God corrected me about something I said to you yesterday," he went on. "I said I didn't say 'I Do' to your past, but to our future. That was wrong of me.  When I said 'I Do' I was saying it to your past and our future.  Many times as couples we forget the other person may have had a past and sometimes we think their past won't trickle into their future, but sometimes it does.  I was able to leave my past in the past because I dealt with it before I married you.  You never fully dealt with yours, so it followed you into our present, but it doesn't have to hinder our future. You are teaching me I cannot run from your problems because as my wife they are now mine.  As hard as it is for me to say, regardless of who's the baby is, it will be ours because we are one."  I couldn't believe what my ears were hearing. This man really had a real relationship with God. If the shoe were turned I would have had divorce papers waiting on him before he left the hospital. I really do need a lot more Jesus. He walked over to the bed, and asked, "What can I get you for breakfast, you're not just eating for one, you're eating for two." "I'm not very hungry," I said, "I guess I'll try to eat some toast and eggs."  After Brian left to get my breakfast Pastor and Sister Jeffries walked in the room.  "Good morning Mrs. Hodges," Pastor Jeffries said as Sister. Jeffries walked over and gave me a big hug and kiss.  "Good morning," I said with no energy at all.  "Your husband called us yesterday and told us what happened and we had to come see about our daughter." Pastor Jeffries said.  "Are you getting better?" he asked.  "I think so." I said.  "I don't want to hear think," he said, "I need a yes!" "Yes" I mumbled.  By this time Brian was walking back in the room with my food.  "Bless you Pastor Jeffries; it's so good to see you and Sister Jeffries," Brian said.  "It's good to be seen," Pastor Jeffries said laughing.  After their brief greeting the doctor came in.  "Hello everyone." Everybody said hello to the doctor as they listened in on what he had to say about my blood pressure.  "Mrs. Hodges your blood pressure is back to normal and the IV we've given you has helped put nutrients back in your body.  You've got to be very careful to drink plenty of fluids and get a lot of rest.  It's vital so you don't cause a miscarriage. I'm going to release you on bedrest for the next four weeks," the doctor said, "For now, I need you to schedule an appointment with Doctor Melody Prather, a family physician who specializes in high risk pregnancies," he said.  Before I could answer, Brian said, "I'll make sure we schedule an appointment with her." The doctor wrote out the bedrest order for me to give to my job and told us the nurse would be in shortly to go over my discharge papers.    







STRAW, STICK, OR BRICK"God works in mysterious ways," Pastor Jeffries said. "A babywhat a way to find out you're adding to your family. That's a blessing" he said. "You know the Bible does say we are to be fruitful and multiply. I always say, if you're not practicing, you're pretending and I see you weren't pretending Evangelist Hodges." "No sir," Brian said with hesitation in his voice.  "Now son, you two may only be married a short while, but God's timing is perfect, and don't you forget it," Pastor Jeffries said.  "Yes sir, you are right. God's timing is perfect even when we aren't," Brian said. The Jeffries didn't know what Brian was saying, but I did. God's timing is perfect. God allowed me to get pregnant for a reason, a reason which I did not know right then but was sure I would find out sooner or later."Young man do you remember the story I shared with you and your wife at my home before you two got married?" Pastor Jeffries asked Brian. "Yes sir, I do remember the story." Brian said.  "Well, I think I need to tell it to you again," he said.  Pastor Jeffries told Brian to take a seat as hospital dismissals normally take as long as church dismissals so he had plenty of time to refresh our minds with his story.  There are three kinds of relationships, and they are magnified during times of testing. The first relationship, he said, is made like a thin piece of straw; it bends, and eventually it breaks.  These individuals go into the marriage with their eyes wide open, but their hearts are closed. Their eyes are open to the new world they just entered, but their hearts are closed to accepting each other's faults, and when a small wind of disappointment comes, the straw bends. They are never able to rebound from the bend, and ultimately the straw breaks.  The second relationship, he went on to say, is made of sticks. The two individuals go in the marriage with their eyes open to accept one another's flaws, but when their flaws don't change immediately, they start snapping at everything the other spouse does. The spouse's actions start to irritate the other one and soon everything the spouse does turns into crackling noise and it gets under their skin. Eventually the relationship breaks, because once again, their eyes were wide open, but their hearts were closed to accepting the fact it takes time for people to change.  This marriage behaves like a weak stick under pressure - it snaps, crackles and then pops.  The best relationship to have is the third one.  This relationship is made of bricks. This couple goes into the marriage with their eyes and hearts open. As the scripture says, "Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak" Matthew 16:41.  This couple knows that the enemy is lurking, and all he needs is a little crack to come in, but not only are their eyes open to spot him, they are praying as well. Even if the enemy slips in, he may chip the brick, but because of the couple's strength, he can't break it.  Regardless of what's done to a brick, it withstands; it withstands fire, heavy rainstorms and any kind of weather.  Even when a piece of the brick is chipped off, it's just a tiny piece. The majority of the brick is left in place. Even if an earthquake hits the brick, and the foundation remains, it can be rebuilt. Every marriage needs to be made of bricks, because the enemy doesn't want any family to stand, and he knows if the family is weak, the church is weak, and ultimately society is weak. "Son," he said, "I speak from experience. Before I gave my life to the Lord I had an affair, and it almost ruined our lives. We were going through a rough patch, and I fell into temptation.  Satan knows each of our flavor of sin.  Mine was women, yours might be drinking, but he knows what to tempt us with.  I kept sinning with this woman, and ultimately she had my baby.  How was I going to break this news to my sweet wife? I didn't have to, the other woman did. Satan does not play fair, he plays dirty and he plays to win. The Bible says the thief cometh not, but that he may steal, and kill, and destroy, but Christ came that we may have life and have it more abundantly.  Thanks be to God, my wife is a praying woman.  She stayed on her knees until my deliverance came.  She forgave me, but most of all, I had to forgive myself. When my wife told me she was not going to let Satan have me, it did me all the good to know she loved me so much that she recognized it was the plot of Satan trying to destroy our marriage. We are the brick I talk about in the story. The enemy chipped our brick, but because of our love for each other and our faith in God, we weathered that storm and we came out on the other side.  Here we are now, 27 years later, sharing with other couples to help them keep the faith and believe what God's word says: 'What therefore God hath joined together, let no man put asunder.'  I believe in my heart God joined you two together, and with His help you will weather the storms of life together."  By the time Pastor Jeffries finished his sermon, the nurse came in with my discharge papers. I was so thankful that Pastor and Sister Jeffries were such down-to-earth people.  All the times she and I had talked, she never shared that story with me.  Just like Pastor Jeffries said, God's timing is perfect, and this was the time I was supposed to hear the whole story, not from her, but from him.  Here was someone I thought could do no wrong, but he proved to me we are all sinners saved by grace.  Maybe I needed to start asking God for more grace instead of more Jesus.  My husband wheeled me out to the car in a wheelchair, and Pastor and Sis Jeffries waited with me until he came around with the car. As we said our goodbyes, Brian came and assisted me into the car and said, "I hope the next time I push you in one of these it will be you and baby Hodges leaving the hospital." Gotta love this man of mine, I thought to myself.As we started home I couldn't help but mention Pastor Jeffries' story and how it helped me to see that no one is perfect, and it does take two people to make a marriage work.  "Sis Jeffries could have checked out on Pastor Jeffries," I said to Brian.  "Yes she could have, and she would have had every right too," he said.  "Well, what do you mean by that statement?" I asked him.  "The Bible says he who commits adultery lacks sense; he who does it destroys himself." "So are you saying I destroyed myself?" I asked.  "No, I didn't say it, God said it," he replied.  He was right, I destroyed myself with the devil's help.  I really did need help.  I loved this man.  He had every right to pack his stuff and leave me, but he was willing to weather the storm with me.  God, help me, I said to myself.  "Just to let you know, I talked with the nurse about when you could do a blood test, and she told me it would be safe at seven to eight weeks," he said.  "I'm not trying to stress you out, but I would like to know. Teresa, do you remember what I said the other night before we went to sleep?" Brian asked.  "I believe so," I said. "When I emptied my suitcase, you had to promise to empty yours. Are you ready to empty your suitcase?" he asked.  I thought long and deep.  "Five years is a long time to hold on to something," I said. "Yes, I'm ready to unpack my baggage if you're willing to stick with me." "If I wasn't willing, I wouldn't be here," he said.  As we pulled up to the condominium complex, Brian said my car was towed to the shop, and he would pick it up when it was ready. "Thanks, you're always on top of things," I said.  "I try to be, now it's your time," he said playfully.  When we walked into our apartment, Brian knelt down, put his head on my stomach and said, "That's love growing in you, my love, not his." So he gently escorted me to our bedroom, but what would have been a perfect night was interrupted by vomiting.  "You've really got to take care of yourself," Brian said. "The doctor said your pregnancy is high risk.  I have an engagement Thursday and Friday of this week, so I'll make sure to drop off your doctor's orders to your job before I leave.  Tomorrow I would like to schedule some counseling sessions for us with Pastor and Sister Raymond, if that's all right with you?"  "Yes, that's all right with me."   What had I done?  I was so selfish, thinking I could I get over this man on my own.  I tried to sleep, but thoughts of unveiling my past kept racing through my head.  Thoughts of my blacking out and wondering if my husband was the father of my child, or the man I had a soul tie with.  I thought about the weeks I had to wait to find out.  I thought about Brian asking the nurse about a blood test and what she was possibly thinking.  Why didn't I think of all that stuff when I was pleasuring myself with Eric?  Why didn't I think of all the shame I was putting my husband through without cause? He had done nothing to me, but I'd done everything to him.  Brian must have felt me twisting and turning in the bed, as he reached over and grabbed my hand and said, "It's going to be all right; things have a way of working out for the good." When he said that, I turned over and put my arms around him like he was my safety net, and I drifted off to sleep, not peacefully, but I was able to close my eyes and slow down the thoughts that were running through my mind. 







HELP, I'VE FALLEN. CAN I GET UP?Wednesday morning I woke up to find Brian had already left the apartment.  He left a note on the refrigerator stating he had taken my doctor's orders to my job and was going to meet Pastor Raymond for lunch.  I got myself together, fixed something to eat and called my job to let them know what was going on.  Being that I was still on my 90-day probation, they were willing to work with me as long as I was able to do my work from home and get it to them by the end of the week.  Thirty days of being on bed-rest, what was I going to do with myself?  I enjoyed going to work, and I liked my job, my good-paying job.  It made me feel like I was contributing to our household, and it made me feel independent. Even though Brian was a good provider, I still wanted my own.  I didn't know if my thinking was selfish, but that's how I thought, anyways.  My mother taught all her children to work and have their own.  She never told me not to depend on a man, and neither did she tell me to depend on one.  The morning had already passed; it was nearly noon when I woke up.  I worked a few hours and started fixing dinner, and by that time the phone rang.  "Hello, may I speak with Brian?" the caller asked.  It was Eric.  I would recognize his voice in a tornado, that's how deep it was in my soul.  "He's not home." I tried to say it rudely, but it took too much energy.  "Hello, Teresa," he said. "Why didn't you tell me you were married to my frat brother?" "Would it have made any difference?" I replied.  "Maybe," he said, "at least I would have thought about what I was doing." "What do you mean," I snapped, "at least you would have thought about what you were doing?" "I would never dishonor the shield of my fraternity, and I would have never slept with you."  Eric said.  "What difference does it make if he was your frat brother or not?" I asked. "What about it being wrong? You knew I was married just like I did." "Yes, I did know you were married," he said, "but I'm not. I don't owe anyone honor." Before I knew it I slammed the phone down so hard I'm sure the echo was heard all throughout the building.  What did he mean, he didn't owe anyone honor? I thought to myself. All the times we slept together, and now he wants to talk about honor.  Is that what I was doing, dishonoring myself, my husband, my vows?  Wow, what an eye-opener that was, hearing Eric say I dishonored myself.  God, you are really teaching me, aren't you? After I calmed myself down, I went back to working.  It was well past five o'clock when Brian walked through the door.  "Where have you been?" I asked.  "Did you not see the note I left on the refrigerator?" he asked.  "Yes, I saw it, but I didn't think you were going to be gone so long."  "You do know we live in a big city, and it takes time to get from one place to another, right? I dropped your paperwork off to your job, met Pastor Raymond for lunch, then went and checked on your car, and now I'm home, safe and sound. You missed me, I take it?" "Yes, I missed you," I said.  "There's a first time for everything," Brian said nonchalantly. Uh-oh, did I detect sarcasm in his voice? Was he getting fed up with my shenanigans? Were they starting to affect his salvation, I asked myself? I didn't say anything else, thinking the conversation could only go further downhill, so I let him do all the talking from that point forward."I talked with Pastor Raymond about counseling us, and he scheduled us on Tuesdays beginning next week.""What did you tell him?" I asked.  "I didn't tell him anything about you; I told him I needed help with something I'm dealing with, and I don't know how or if I can handle it. I told him my spirit was willing, but my flesh was weak."   I couldn't believe my ears.  Just yesterday he told me he was willing to stay, and now he's saying he doesn't know if he can handle it.  What was I thinking?  Was I expecting him to act as though everything was perfect? I was a terrible girlfriend and even worse, a terrible wife.  I got upset, picked up my paperwork, went in the other room and started working again.  Brian walked into the room, I thought to console me, but only to ask if he missed any calls.  "Am I your secretary?" I asked.  "No, you're not," he said, "but you've been here, and I hope you would tell me if I missed any calls. Teresa, I'm beginning to really wonder about you." "What are you wondering about me?" I asked.  "You stormed out of the room like a spoiled brat; you have no reason to be upset with me.  If anyone has cause and reason to be upset, it's me, not you," he said.  "Yesterday you said you were willing to stick it out with me, but now you're talking about you don't know if and how you'll be able to handle it!" I cried.  "Stop it," he said. "I'm hurting just as much as you are. I want to say I'm going to be here with you even if the baby is not mine, but I don't know how I'll feel if it turns out to be another man's. Anyway, did I miss any calls?""Yes, your favorite frat brother called while you were out." "Did he leave a message?" "Not for you," I said.  "What do you mean by that?" "Nothing," I said.  Brian walked out of the room to call Eric.  This is some mess, I said to myself.  Why is he so adamant on making amends with this man? Is there something I don't know?
Oh well, whatever... I kept working. Brian walked back into the room to tell me he was headed downstairs to apologize to Eric.  I acted as though I didn't hear him and kept right on working.  "Don't work too hard," he said as he walked out the house. While he's down there talking to the enemy, I'm sitting up here suffering.  What could they possibly have to talk about?  Why does he feel the need to apologize to that man? I just don't get it.    While I was still having a pity party, Brian came back into the room.  "How are you feeling? You didn't give me time to ask earlier," he said.  Forget the small talk, I wanted to know what happened at Eric's, I thought.  "I'm feeling better," I said.  "I only threw up once today."  "I'm glad to hear that. You've got to promise me you won't stress yourself too much while I'm away," he said.  "I won't." I was trying to hold out until Brian willingly told me what happened at Eric's, but I was dying to know, so I blurted out, "What happened at your frat brother's house?" I avoided saying his name because it had begun to leave a bad taste in my mouth.  "Nothing happened; I went down to apologize, and that's what I did.  I told him I'd heard you say something, and without getting all the details I charged after him. He was a suspect and didn't even know he committed a crime," Brian said.  "What do you mean he was a suspect and didn't know he committed a crime?" I said.  "I told you earlier, he didn't do anything wrong, you did. He didn't know you were married, you did."  "Brian, if you're going to keep throwing all this up in my face, then I don't think we're going to make it," I said with tension in my voice.  "I agree with you," he said, "which is why I made the statement to Pastor Raymond. I don't know if I can handle you being my wife and having another man's child.  I don't think I was built for that. I told you the night I heard the voice coming from your room if you didn't think I could handle your past then there was no need for us to continue in a game of charades.  You couldn't share your past with me, because it wasn't your past, it was your present, and I didn't know that. How would you feel if you found out another woman might be having my baby? You wouldn't be able to take it, would you? Of course you wouldn't," he said.  "I'm tired of going around the same circle with you," I told Brian. "Either you're going to wait and see the results of the blood tests or you're not; it's your decision, but I hope you'll stick around and at least wait before you make the wrong decision," I said angrily. "Why should I wait, and who's to say it would be the wrong decision?" Brian said.  "You should have thought about all this while you were laid up with another man.  Now you want to tell me what to do. I give up!" Brian said as he walked out of the room.  I had never heard him utter words like those before.  They cut through me like a knife.  I felt like my heart was being ripped out of me while I was wide awake. Could this be how Brian was feeling? I dishonored myself, my husband, and my vows, and as always, I was making it about me.  Why did I always make it about me?  Was I so selfish that I couldn't see this man was hurting, and I refused to help him?  God, help me, Your daughter I am a wretched person in need of help.  I walked into the dining room, and Brian was eating dinner.  "Please help me," I said, "don't leave me.  I love you.  I was confused and hurt the night you blew me off the phone, and I let something happen that shouldn't have happened. Please don't leave me, I need you." Brian sat there in silence for a moment. My pleading was not moving him this time.  "Why are you so concerned about what I said to Eric? Do his feelings still matter to you?" "Of course not," I said.  "I just don't understand why you need to apologize to him." "You wouldn't understand, Teresa, not until you truly have the love of God in your heart will you ever understand." Brian said.  That was deep, I thought.  All those years of going to Sunday School and singing in the choir, I can't believe I didn't have the love of God in my heart. I was a hypocrite. Saying I loved God with my mouth, but not meaning it in my heart. I know God gave me to Brian so he could help me to see my reflection in the mirror, but what I was seeing was so ugly I almost didn't want to look.  "Are you going to leave here upset at me and preach to God's people?" I asked. "I'm not upset with you, Teresa," Brian said, "I'm upset with myself."  "Why are you upset with yourself?" I asked.  "Because I love you, and I don't even think you know how much, and it hurts. I've never loved a woman like I love you. I made a vow to God to keep myself after years of fornicating with a woman.  It was hard to give up the sinful pleasures of the world, but with the help of God, I did it. Four years I waited for God to show me the woman he had planned for me, and he showed me you. But now you have me questioning if I acted out of lust instead of love because I was ready to be with a woman intimately.  Teresa, I'm not upset with you.  I'm upset with myself." Wow, my eyes were being opened, and I didn't like what I saw. Out of desperation, I asked Brian if I could go with him. "I'd love for you to be with me," he said.  Whew, a small load was lifted from my heart hearing him say yes. I got up from the table and started getting my things together.  I was not going to let the devil steal my husband from me.  While I was packing I kept hearing the question Brian asked me about why I was so concerned about what he'd said to Eric.  His feelings didn't matter to me, and I was seeing my feelings never mattered to him.  I was only his meantime in-between-time woman. As long as I was willing to keep dishonoring myself with him, he was going to take me up on the offer. I had become just what the Bible said, a harlot. I wasn't a prostitute selling my body. I was prostituting my self-worth, because I had none when it came to Eric. I wasn't able to control myself, because our bodies had become one flesh over and over again, and the soul tie I created with him was hard for me to break. But I wanted to be free.  I asked God to free me. I had fallen and didn't know if I could get up.  Can I get up, I asked myself?  Brian walked into the bedroom and just like a man, our little disagreement was the furthest thing from his mind.  He was wanting to be intimate.  Really, just like that? I thought.  How can he want to be intimate when we haven't even cleared the air, or did we in his mind?  I don't know, this is all new to me.  But I went with the flow, not wanting to rock the boat, because I was serious about wanting my husband to stay with me, and I was going to prove to him I really did love him.  And just like that, baby Hodges decided to stop the flow of traffic, and I started throwing up again. "Do you think you should be going with me?" Brian asked. "I'll be fine," I said. "After all, I'm going to God's house, and there's no better place to be." So I spent the next thirty minutes sitting by the toilet puking up everything I had eaten that day, and when I felt it was safe to move, I crawled into bed.  "At least if I can't have you, let me hold you," Brian said.  So he held me through the night and just like that, I felt safe in his arms again.  Like it was him and me against the world, and it was from that point forward.  I am going to get back up, I said to myself.  I'm going to pick myself up out of this grave I dug for myself.  I knew as long as he loved me the way he did, we were going to make it, regardless of what the enemy was trying to do.  We are going to make it, I thought to myself.  I love him and he loves me.  I touched his hand, he touched my heart, and that was all she wrote for that day. 







A MESSAGE OF HOPEI was looking forward to being with my husband and hearing him preach during the revival in Carbondale, Illinois. It was about a five-hour drive from our home. I had written some questions in my notebook that I wanted to ask Brian, and I thought no better time to ask than on a long ride. We left for Carbondale about 7 a.m. so Brian could have time to study and pray before service. He put gas in the car, and we hit the road."I have some questions I would like to ask you if you don't mind," I said to Brian."Of course I don't mind." "Yesterday you said you give up. Are you giving up on me, or this situation?" I asked.  "Well, as I see it, if I give up on you, I'm giving up on the situation, as well. And if you don't mind, I'd rather not talk about this right now. I'd like to have my mind free so I can minister if that's ok with you." "I guess," I said, disappointed. I really wanted him to answer my question, but I knew he needed to be free of anything that might cause a disagreement, because he always tells me he can't minister to God's people if there is chaos at home. God knows I've caused enough chaos, and I don't want to rock the boat today.  I put a cassette in the tape deck, and we drove to Carbondale with no tension.  We had small talk and sang all the way to the hotel.  We arrived at the hotel shortly after three, as we stopped for an hour or so to eat lunch.  Upon our arrival, Brian pulled up to the front door, got out and went inside the hotel to check us in for two nights.  Revival started at 7:45, and he is a stickler for time. After checking us in, he came out and got in the car, pulled it around closer to our room and took our bags in.  It was his custom to go to the church he was speaking at and pray for souls to be reclaimed during the revival.  "Rest up or eat, whatever you need to do," he said. "We are about 15 minutes from the church, so I'd like to leave here at 7:30." "I'll be ready," I said.  When he left the room I unpacked my things and started working on some paperwork so when we made it back to town Saturday I could drop off the week's ledger at the office before heading home.  I was excited to be with my husband as he was a very good speaker, and hearing him always uplifted me. I hadn't been at one of his revivals since we first met the past December. I was actually looking forward to hearing the message in his heart that God had given him, as he was led by the Spirit when delivering messages.It was after six when Brian returned to the room.  I prayed he would not allow what was going on between us to affect his ministering to God's people.  I definitely did not want to be a hindrance in what he loved to do, serve God's people through the Word. "Did you eat?" I asked like a good, concerned wife.  "No, I'm fasting until after service. Did you eat and get some rest? That was a long drive, and you are supposed to be on bed-rest, but I thank you for wanting to come with me.  Having you here with me makes me feel good." "Aww, that's so sweet of you," I said.  "Yes, I did order room service; I did a little work, and now I'm about to get up and get ready for service." I got up from the bed and started getting myself together so I could be ready on time.  I was known for dragging my heels and walking in circles according to Brian, but I always thought I was being careful not to forget anything, at least that's how I convinced myself when I was late.  7:30 came, and just like clockwork we headed out the door for revival.  I had a high expectation, just like I did the night I got saved for real.  I was looking forward to hearing the message.  We arrived at the church, and Brian came around and opened my car door. "Wait for me in the vestibule," he said. "Someone will walk us to the pastor's study." He parked the car and just as he'd said, the pastor's aide was there to escort us to the pastor's office.  Brian introduced me to the pastor, then he stayed in the pastor's office, and I walked into church with the pastor's wife.  The church was nearly filled to capacity. I could tell people came with expectation, just like I did. One of the Associate Ministers opened the service with prayer, followed by the scripture reading, and then the choir started singing.  They started with a slow song, but the song they finished with had everybody up on their feet - 'My Mind Is Made Up' by Milton Brunson.   Looking over my life I've seen the road I've taken, I don't like it, seems some things, some things have got to be shaken. I've checked it out I've been in this life too long, Gotta change my attitude, time to sing a new song. Yes, I made up my mind, I'm going in another direction, 'Cause if I don't I'll end in destruction.  I'll walk and I'll crawl, This time, I'm gonna give my all and all.  Please don't hinder me I'm trying to make a change,I'm going all the way and I'm going in Jesus' name.   Whew, that song pierced the depths of my soul. The choir kept singing, and people starting praising God, and the atmosphere in the church went up, and there was nothing but praise.  My mind's made up, yes, my mind is made up, I'm not turning back, I kept saying to myself.  I kept saying it until I convinced myself, I'm not turning back.  I'm done with Eric; he will not ruin my future with the man of my dreams.  My mind is made up. He has used me and confused me, and I will not turn back. Yes, my mind is made up!Sometime during the choir's reprise Brian and the pastor walked in.  He looked over to me with such assurance, and I knew in my heart I was done letting the enemy use and confuse me.  My mind was really made up.  I was not turning back. Please don't hinder me, I'm trying to make a change. I kept hearing the choir, and it seemed like they were singing directly to me.  "Yes," I said with tears in my eyes, "I'm trying to make a change." The Spirit was so high, and I kept hearing the pastor say, "Come on, come on choir, sing!"  I looked over and Brian was out of his seat rejoicing in the words of the song.  I could tell he had a message of hope for the congregation, as it was unlike him to be rejoicing even before he delivered the message.  What God had given him for the congregation had gotten all in his spirit, and he was out of his seat clapping and rejoicing.  The spirit was still high in the church when the pastor gave a brief introduction and turned the service over to Brian.  I was waiting just like the rest of the congregation, sitting on the edge of my seat in high expectation of the Word.  Brian walked up to the pulpit or did he leap? I don't know, but he greeted the congregation and to my surprise, he introduced me as his lovely bride, told the congregation we were expecting our first child and I was supposed to be home on bed-rest, but because of my love for him, I traveled with him to be in revival this weekend.  I didn't know what to think about him telling the congregation about the baby.  I was only five or six weeks along, I think, and no one could tell. I guess that was his way of telling me he was in it for the long haul, and I became teary-eyed. After introducing me, Brian gave his sermon title to the waiting congregation"The Storm"."Oh my," I said with anticipation.  I know how preachers can be.  Some will use stories from their personal lives to encourage the congregation, but is the storm he's about to preach about related to the storm we were going through?  I got concerned about how much of our personal life he would share.  Would he tell the congregation what a whore I'd been? God I hoped not.   THE STORM"Sometimes in life we go through storms, just like how it's raining outside," Brian said. "There will be storms in our life; we just have to know how to weather through them.  One thing about a storm, thoughit usually makes more noise than it does damage," he went on to say.  "In our storms we can rest assured that God is with us because he said in his Word, 'I will never leave you nor forsake you. I will be with you always.'  My question to you today is, do you believe?"  he asked.  "This week, I had the pleasure of talking with a young lady who was going through a storm in her life; she had not talked to her father in over twenty years because she felt like he abandoned her when his relationship with her mother did not work out.  She was in a storm.  She told me her mother was upset and didn't want her to talk to her father, because he had done nothing for her all her life. The wind was blowing from her mother's direction," Brian said.  "Internally, the wind was blowing from thoughts in her head about not having a father to help her learn things only a father can teach a daughter."  As he was preaching I could hear the roar of the Amens coming from the congregation.  "Things like how to deal with little boys, how to drive a car, and yes, even how to know when she meets Mr. Right.  This young lady was in a storm," Brian said.  "Just like most of us have been at one point or another, and she was wondering if it was the will of God for her to form a relationship with the man who planted the seed that gave her life.  She went on to tell me that she felt she had made some wrong decisions in the men she chose because her father was not there to help guide her. And now with two babies from two different men, she didn't know how to choose a man. This is a storm," Brian said.And the congregation repeated, "That's a storm.""This young lady asked my opinion about the situation, and I told her I would be in prayer for her, because just like her, I too went through a similar storm.  I had tornado winds coming from my mother, and internally I had hurricane winds blowing in my own mind.  I remember searching through the scriptures and read about the story of Peter.  'Turn with me', he said in Matthew 14:28-31.  I was like Brother Peter, and I know I'm not the only one," Brian said. "You've prayed about a situation, and the more you pray about the situation, the more the winds blow, and you think you're never going to get out of that storm." The congregation kept saying Amen.  "Many of us are like Brother Peter as soon as we get enough faith to step out of the boat, we start seeing things that are not there."  Brian referenced verse 30: "but when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, 'Lord, save me'." "I ask you, congregation," he said, "when was the last time you saw the wind? Never!  You have never seen the wind, only the effects of it. Just like the young lady who was having doubts about her relationship with her father; the enemy was making her see things that were not there.  And just when we get enough faith to step out of the boat and believe what God says, that's when the enemy really starts throwing everything at us including the kitchen sink. Can I get an Amen?" he asked.  "Amen!" the congregation roared.  "God has already told us He will never leave us nor forsake us, but often times fear causes us to forget what His Word has already promised us," Brian said.  "I stopped by to tell you tonight that your storm has a purpose. My storm has a purpose. The storm comes so we can be like Brother Peter and call out to God and say 'Lord, save me.' Because sometimes we get to thinking we can handle the storm on our own. So no matter how hard the rain falls in your life, no matter how loud the rain pounds on the tin rooftop, the one who created the storm is also able to calm the storm," he said. "But the only way He can calm the storm is if you give Him permission. Yes, we have to be like Brother Peter and give God permission to calm our storm. Save me, Lord," Brian said, and I could feel his heart crying out to God.The congregation began saying, "Save me Lord!" "I just want to encourage somebody's heart today that may be feeling like the young lady who I spoke with this week. You may feel like you're in a storm that God can't handle, but He can handle it because He created it," Brian said.  "Twenty years is a long time to be in a storm, but just like the young lady when she finally called out to God to save her, God stepped in and saved her. She started the relationship with her father, and it was two little words that he said to her that made her forget all about the strong winds that tried to kill her relationship with him.  Hearing her father say 'I'm sorry' made all the difference and guess what, saints? That's what God wants to hear from you and meI'm sorry," Brian said.  By this time I was completely covered in tears. A message of hope had been spoken directly to me. A message I received in the depths of my soul.Brian went on to say, "'For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord.' Yes, the enemy sometimes makes us think the storm has no purpose, but saints of God, our storms have a purpose. They come so we can give God permission to save us, Lord, because we are incapable of saving ourselves. I'm in a storm," Brian said, "and while I was here earlier I heard the Spirit of God speak to me concerning my storm. In Deuteronomy, the 31st chapter, He took me there concerning my own storm, saints, and he told me, 'Be strong and of a good courage, fear not, nor be afraid of them: for the Lord thy God, He it is that doth go with thee; He will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.'" Brian ended his sermon with an altar call, and I left my seat and went to the altar. I gave God permission to help me as I started crying out, "Save me, Lord!" and this time, unlike any other, I meant it from the bottom of my heart. "Save me, Lord," I kept saying, without fear in my heart. I felt the overwhelming presence of God, and I fell to the floor without warning. Brian was so caught up in the Spirit, praying for others, he didn't even notice. But I believed in my heart I was ok, and I believed in my soul I was carrying his child.After the service we went back to the hotel room, where I congratulated my husband on an awesome message.  I thanked him for being led by God and for leading me to God.  "You are truly a great servant of God's," I said.  "And you are the woman God has assigned to walk by my side, and I pray I never forget that," he said with assurance. As we climbed into bed, he said, "I'm sorry if I made you feel at any time you were unworthy of my heart, but you are the rib that was missing from my side all these years." I was still hung over from the service, but hearing him say those words brought me back to flesh, and that was all she wrote for that day.When I woke up Friday morning I immediately started throwing up even though I hadn't eaten much the day before, and so Brian ordered that I stay in the room and not attend service that night. "You will be with me in spirit," he said. So I spent majority of the day finishing paperwork and resting in bed at the doctor's and my husband's orders. 







THE SUITCASESaturday morning we drove back to Chicago.  On the way home I told Brian I was ready for counseling the upcoming Tuesday, and I asked him what he wanted me to share with Pastor Raymond.  "The only way you are going to truly be delivered from your past is to share everything," he said.  "You've held this secret for five years, five years too long, and it's time for you to empty your suitcase." He was right, I thought to myself.  I did make up my mind, and I am not turning back.  I'm ready to be free of the thoughts of Eric plaguing me. I do not love that man, and he never loved me. We both acted out of lust, but I'm the one who is married and dishonoring everything God has blessed me with, I said to myself.  As we continued our journey home, Brian looked over at me. "This is our storm, and we are going to weather it together." That left a warm feeling in my heart, knowing he was going to be with me all the way. When we pulled into town, we stopped by my office. I took my paperwork in and left it in the supervisor's mail bin and picked up my work for the coming week. By that time the body shop was closed, and Brian said we would pick up my car one day next week, which was fine with me, especially since I wasn't supposed to be driving.Sunday morning came, and I was too weak to go to service, so I stayed in bed most of the day. Brian said I missed a great sermon by Pastor Raymond, and he was looking forward to our counseling session Tuesday. While Brian was at church, I jotted down some questions I wanted to ask Pastor Raymond, and I showed them to Brian to get his response.  "What do you think of these questions?" I asked.  "If that's what you want to ask, you are free to ask him whatever you need to, so you can be healed, delivered, and set free," Brian said.  I was sort of ashamed at the questions I was asking, but regardless, I was going to ask them anyhow.  Monday came and went, and when I woke up Tuesday I was nervous about telling my story with Brian, as I had kept this secret for five years, and I didn't know it was killing me inside. I was finally going to get the healing I needed and deserved. When we pulled onto the church grounds I started vomiting profusely. What is going on? "Are you all right?" Brian asked. "Do you want me to reschedule our session?" "No, get me a wet towel," I said. "I'll be all right."  So he went in the church and brought me out a wet towel, and Pastor Raymond was with him.  "Teresa, I think we need to reschedule," he said. "Oh no, Pastor Raymond, I need this," I said.  "Ok, if you're determined, I'm not going to stop you," Pastor Raymond said. The words of the song replayed in my mindmy mind's made up, no turning backand I started to feel better, or at least well enough to walk into Pastor Raymond's office.  We sat down on the couch, and Pastor Raymond started our session with prayer.  Then he read a scripture from Psalm 127:1, "Unless the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain who build it." "I know you all have questions you want to ask, but first let me start out about marriage," Pastor Raymond said.  "It's easy to remember where and when you got married, but many people forget why." He continued, "God created Eve because Adam had no one to commune with in the garden like him.  He caused a deep sleep to come on Adam and he pulled out a rib from his side and created Eve.  One of the purposes of marriage is closeness, and the enemy of marriage is distance.  Problems come when we expect our spouse to meet our every need. Only God can do that!  The Bible says, 'Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself for her.' Ephesians 5:25.  Are there any perfect marriages?" he asked. "None, not even mine. Can a marriage ever be perfect? No, but when two people make up their minds to give themselves fully to one another, they can come pretty close." He handed us a list of the top reasons couples divorce and then said, "Since God performed the first marriage, talking to Him about the issues you have in yours is the perfect place to start. Now, that's it for me," Pastor Raymond said. "Which one of you wants to start?" Brian said, "Pastor, I didn't tell you why I asked to meet with you because I didn't want to shame my wife or make her feel any kind of way, so I'd like her to share with you what she wants to share."  And just like that my stomach started feeling queasy; I ran to the bathroom and started throwing up again.  I know it was the enemy trying to keep me from being free, but my mind was made up.  I waited in the bathroom a few minutes until the feeling passed and started walking back towards Pastor Raymond's office.  My feet started getting heavier with every step I took ; it almost felt like I was walking with a ton of bricks wrapped around my ankles, but I kept going until I made it back into his office and sat down on his couch.  "Are you sure you don't want to reschedule?" Pastor Raymond asked.  "Oh noI may never get the nerve to come back, Pastor Raymond," I said as I swallowed my pride. "I dishonored my marriage vows. I slept with my ex-lover shortly after we married," I said.  I couldn't believe I was telling the Pastor this story. I felt like I was broadcasting it on the nightly news.  "Sister Hodges, believe me when I tell you, you are not the first woman to have an affair," he said. "I counsel many men and women who have stepped outside of their marriage vows, but most of them don't have the courage you have in exposing yourself to your spouse before someone else does. Anytime a person violates their own integrity, it's hard for them to live in their skin. The feelings of shame, fear, loss, loneliness and depression start to set in." I couldn't believe what I was hearing.  Just as Eric said, I dishonored myself, and Pastor Raymond was saying the same thing.  "It takes courage to tell a spouse after we have fallen into temptation, because the Bible says, 'but each person is tempted when they are dragged away by their own evil desire and enticed.'  It also takes love for you to seek help together. Both of you being here together shows you want your marriage to work and I'm impressed," Pastor Raymond added, "not at the sin, but at the love and commitment you both have for your marriage." What a heavy weight that was, lifted from my heart, I thought.  "Pastor Raymond, my wife has written down some questions she would like to ask you about," Brian said.  As tears started to fall from my eyes, I began to tell Pastor Raymond and Brian what happened to me five years ago and how I was made to feel like dirt, so much so that I no longer knew my worth. As the word "raped" fell from my mouth I started feeling the shackles falling off of me. I told them of the plot of my then friend Rochelle and her father to save the star quarterback's integrity, while no one cared about mine. I told them how I met Eric, and each and every time he called me I would somehow make myself available to him, even when I didn't want to. I went on and on about my escapades of fornication and my one indiscretion of adultery with him. I told Pastor Raymond I knew when I formed the soul tie with Eric, but I didn't know it was so strong or how to break free.  I thought I was over him when I married Brian, but something kept pulling me back to him, and I didn't know how to break the invisible string that kept pulling me back to him.  I thought the love I had for Brian would be enough, but somehow it wasn't, I said.  As I continued to share my story, I felt my suitcase getting lighter and lighter, but I still wanted to know why I couldn't get this man out of my mind.  I still wanted to know why, when I said no in my head, I still ended up with him in bed.  I wanted to know why I was tormented with thoughts of him. I wanted to know why I thought about who he was with and what he was doing when I wasn't with him.  I wanted to know why it was so easy for me to rekindle this inappropriate relationship.  I wanted to know why I allowed him to manipulate and control me. As I continued to cry, I let out a loud sigh of relief.  Finally I was going to be free, I thought to myself. Free of the memory of Sam raping me. Free of the memory of Eric plaguing me.  Free!       When I looked at the clock, nearly two hours had passed as I sat and shared with Brian and Pastor Raymond.  "Teresa," the Pastor said, "I have taken down all the questions you have asked, and I will have some answers for you from the scripture next week.  Until then I want you and Elder Hodges to go home, and every night read First Corinthians 13 together, the entire chapter.  That is your homework , and when we meet again next week, be prepared to tell me what you received out of those verses.""Yes, sir," Brian and I said in unison.     We left Pastor Raymond's office agreeing to read the scripture together each night.  He told us that men study from a male perspective and women from a female perspective.  When we study together, we bring our different viewpoints and we can do as the Word says, "reason together." Such good wisdom, I thought to myself.  Tuesday night Brian and I sat down at the kitchen table and opened our Bibles to First Corinthians, chapter 13.  When we got to verse seven, Brian paused and said, "I want to focus on verse seven'Love bears all things, believes all things, endures all things,'" he read.  "In our situation," he went on to say, "I must believe that your adultery-committing days are over. I must believe in my heart when you tell me it's over between you two, and that you will not go back to him." So I said, "I hope you believe and trust that I will never step outside of our marriage again. Just like I hope and believe you never will." And so we continued our study every night, writing down the promises we made to each other from those passages of scripture.  Every night we read together, my love for Brian was growing stronger and stronger along with my commitment to our relationship.  I had no idea what love was really all about until I met this man.  All that time, trying to hold on to a man who had no intention of holding on to me. I wasted precious time of my life with that man.  Brian had loved me from day one, but I was too blind to see.  I had no idea how great true love is.  I could honestly see why Pastor Raymond suggested we read these verses. Although I never really understood how these verses could relate to a marriage, I began to see that they do.  I always thought this chapter, known as the love chapter, referred to how I treat others, but if I can't treat my spouse with God's agape love then how can I love others in God's way? Charity begins at home and then spreads abroad; it was all beginning to come together, I thought to myself.  That Pastor Raymond is something else.  What a difference it makes when husband and wife study together.  I think its increasing our bond and I know its increasing our love life.  The two days Brian was away running revival, he called after service and we read together.  I noticed I was changing, and I was acting on what I was learning from reading this chapter.  My pride was slowly fading along with my selfish attitude.  I was actually enjoying studying the Bible, not like when I was younger and made to read it, but I was actually picking it up on my own during the day.  I thought to myself how God sent Brian to me to bless me and not hurt me, but because of all the hurt I had inside I was pushing him awaynot purposely, but I was.  Tuesday came, and it was time for our next counseling session with Pastor Raymond.  This time when we got to his office I didn't feel sick at all.  As a matter of fact I was anxious to hear some of the answers he had for the questions I'd asked.  Just like last week's session, Pastor Raymond started out with prayer and a scripture, and then he asked if we had done our homework. "Yes sir," Brian commented, "we've been enjoying studying the love chapter, as it has helped us to bond in a different way.""What way is that?" Pastor Raymond asked.  I jumped into the conversation, "It has helped me to see the love I show my husband can't be less than the love I show to strangers.  If I can go to a job for years and put up with foolishness on the job, I should be able to love my spouse when he does something I don't agree with," I said.  Pastor Raymond laughed and said, "You're right Sister Hodges.  Love, or as the Bible says, charity does start at home, and then goes outside of our home. We must love our spouses even when they do things we don't agree with.  We don't love or excuse their sin; we love them and pray for their sin. Now, let's get to some of these questions you asked me last week," Pastor Raymond said.  "Teresa, last week you mentioned that you knew when you formed the soul tie with Eric.  So I can say you know what a soul tie is?" he asked.  "I do, I believe," I said.  "So we can be on the same page," Pastor Raymond said. "I will tell you what the Bible says about a sexual soul tie, because there are other forms of soul ties, but we're only going to deal with an ungodly sexual soul tie. I want to talk about the how, where, when, and why of soul ties. The Bible speaks of how soul ties affect our spiritual freedom, and as creations of God, we are three-part beings: body, soul, and spirit. We are spirit beings, possessing a soul, living in a body. Our soul consists of four parts: our mind, will, emotions, and our conscience.  Many people refer to their soul as their personality, but it's so much more. I first want to talk about why soul ties are formed.  Let's say a man meets a woman, and she wears a form-fitting dress to dinner to show off her sultry curves, you know how you women do," he said.  "As men, most of us are aroused by a woman first physically and then mentally.  On the date, he notices her curves and how she's filling out that dress, and then if she wears lipstick, he notices the curve of her lips when she closes her mouth." I started grinning as I thought about when I first saw Brian, how I noticed his physique, so I knew Pastor Raymond was telling the truth.  "All this physical attraction is mounting up inside him, especially if he likes what he sees.  It's the same with a woman, if a man has what she likes on the outside, she also becomes physically attracted to him.  A soul tie begins in the mind, which I said is part of our soul.  The book of Matthew tells us that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart.  The same scripture goes for a woman, as well. Most people, when they think of the heart, they immediately think of their physical heart that pumps blood, but the heart of every being according to scripture is found in our brain, not the sponge in our head, but in our thoughts which are rooted deep in our soul.  Jeremiah 4:14 ask a question, 'O Jerusalem, wash your heart from wickedness, that you may be saved. How long shall your vain thoughts lodge within you.' Then Matthew 15:19 states, "For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies."  Proverbs 4:23 tells us to "keep our heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the springs of life." Once again these scriptures speak of our thoughts, not the physical heart that pumps blood through our body.  Our physical heart cannot think and these scriptures show us the heart of every being are the thoughts in our mind and not the organ pumping blood through our veins.  Also, Jeremiah 17:9 says, 'The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked. Who really knows how bad it is?' Many times, when we look at the opposite sex, we look from our natural eyes, and if we see something we like, our thoughts kick in, causing our emotions to get excited."  Brian started laughing. "I know you know exactly what I mean, Elder Hodges," the pastor said.  "Yes, I do, Pastor, yes I do."The pastor continued, "It's when I look at a woman and lust after her in the heart of my mind an ungodly soul tie begins.  I lust after her, wanting to have her, and according to scripture it's wrong because I am not married to her.  James 1:15 tells us, 'these desires give birth to sinful actions and when sin is allowed to grow, it gives birth to death.'  If she is not my wife, and I look at her to have her as though she is my wife, that's when the soul tie begins in the heart of my mind.  I've told you wherein the heart of our mind. Then I told you whymost times from lust. Then I mentioned when before the physical act of sex; when you look at her to have her as though she's your wife.  Now, let's talk about how a soul tie is strengthened.  There are Godly soul ties and ungodly soul ties.  God's order is marriage, because he performed the first marriage between Adam and Eve.  In Genesis chapter 2 verses 18 through 24 it shows where God said it was not good for Adam to be alone, and so he caused a deep sleep to come over Adam and created Eve from his rib, and then it goes on to say they are to be one flesh.  The only way a couple can be one flesh is to unite in the act of physical love-makingplainly stated, having sex and plenty of it.  An ungodly soul tie is an inappropriate and out-of-order relationship with someone a person is not married to.  A soul tie, Godly or ungodly, is strengthened during the sexual act of exchanging bodily fluids.  It's an ungodly soul tie when it's done outside of God's order.  Teresa, let me share how your nature was awakened sexually," he said.  "In the book of Genesis chapter 34, 1-3 it says, 'And Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she had borne unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land.  And Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, saw her; and he took her, and lay with her, and humbled her.  And his soul did cleave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the damsel, and spoke comfortingly unto the damsel.' In this passage of scripture, Dinah, Jacob's only daughter, was raped. Another version of the Bible uses the word 'defiled' and her perpetrator's soul stayed with her.  He loved her, but she didn't have the opportunity to love him freely; he forced his love on her.  Shechem formed an ungodly soul tie with Dinah by raping her.  Her innocence was taken without her will.  In the Bible story, Dinah's perpetrator was killed by her brothers. When you were raped, there was a soul tie formed, but you were able to suppress your sexual appetite because the feelings associated with the act of violence perpetrated against you were done against your will and brought you no pleasure.  As I stated earlier, lust gives birth to sinful actions, and when sin is allowed to grow, it gives birth to death. Many people do not fully understand the power of sex and how it affects a person's soul.  "Let me share a story with you from a woman I counseled not long ago, a young woman who started having sex with a man she was not married to.  He aroused her flesh, and they willingly started having sex.  She came from a Christian home, and he did not.  He smoked cigarettes, marijuana and even used cocaine.  It was less than six months of having repeated sex with this man when she started smoking cigarettes and marijuana and having no idea why.  One night, she said, they were at a party, and people were doing lines of cocaine.  He walked her over to the table where the cocaine was and asked her to hit a line.  At first she said no, but then he said, 'Do it for meit heightens your libido' and before she knew it, she was, in her words, hitting the line of cocaine.  How did a young woman from a Christian home who was never exposed to nicotine or drugs of any kind end up being addicted to cocaine? Because during her ungodly acts of having sex with her partner, she strengthened her ungodly soul tie with this man, and everything ugly that was in his soul transferred to her soul.  I know it sounds like witchcraft, but it's not. God has a plan for our lives, and marriage is part of his plan if a person wants to be married.  The Bible says, 'but if they can't control themselves, they should go ahead and marry. It's better to marry than to burn with lust.' God knew we as his creation would want to fulfill our sexual desires, which is why he said it was not good for man to be alone." When Pastor Raymond had finished talking, our two hours were gone.  Just about every question I asked, he answered, along with some I had never even thought of.  Then he said, "Your homework for next week is to answer this question:  Is your marriage worth fighting for?  I look forward to hearing your answers." "What a session," I said to Brian later.  "Yes, it was an eye-opener," he said.  "My suitcase is getting lighter and lighter," I said.  "Mine too," Brian said.  "What do you mean, yours too?" I asked.  "As the Bible says, we've all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God," he said.  "Are you saying you've sinned since we married?" I asked.  "No, but I sinned when I laid eyes on you, because you were really wearing that skirt. As a matter of fact it's etched in my memory real good. And come to think of it, where is that skirt?" "It's at home," I said.  "Why haven't you worn it?" "Because it was one of my secret weapons," I said.  "What do you mean by that?" Brian said, clueless.  "It caught your eye, right?" I asked.  "Oh yeah, it caught my eye and some other parts of my body, as well." We laughed and talked about the session and decided to go out to dinner instead of cooking.   







MY STI"So Teresa, you mean to tell me you purposely wore that skirt to entice me that night?" Brian asked.  "I could kind of feel your excitement the night we talked," I said. "I don't know if I did it on purpose or not, but I wore it, and you fell for my bait." So, I had to know... "Other than my heart, as you would say, what really attracted you to me?" "I must be honest, it was something different about you, not just your good looks, but it was I think your quiet spirit. Traveling the country speaking, I got hit on by a lot of women, especially after they found out I was single with no kids. The first night of revival you seemed like you were in your own world, and you were definitely not thinking about me, and that actually drew me to you. I had been chased by women so long, it felt good to actually be the hunter. Many women think it's ok to chase after a man, but a real man doesn't want to be pursued, he wants to do the pursuing. You let me pursue you and I liked it. The best man won, whether you believe it or not," he said.  "Why would you say that?" I asked.  "I mean, I don't believe your heart was mine before we married.  I think I grew on you, and I'm still growing on you," he said.  "Don't say it like that," I said.  "You are the better man, not the best man, and yes, you have my heart, soul, body, mind, and everything else Pastor Raymond spoke of. Can I ask you a nave question?" "Better than anyone I know," Brian said. "Have you ever had a soul tie with a woman?" "Nope," he said.  "Come on, be honest. We're married now and nothing will change that," I said.  "Honestly, Teresa, you are my soul tie. I told you I slept with a woman, but it was lust, it was not love.  I was only with her for the sexual benefits and nothing else.  I knew whenever I wanted some, I could call her and she would let me come over. I did not love heras a matter of fact, I really didn't even like her. Let me tell you something my unsaved uncle told me years ago.  He said a man can have sex with a woman and not have any feelings for her.  A man can have sex with a woman, get up, take a shower and leave and not even know her name because we don't get emotionally connected like women do.  He said a lot of men play on women's emotions because they know many women associate love with a feeling, but it's not the case for most men."  "I'm listening," I said.  "Some men will do and say anything to get in a woman's pants regardless of how long it takes.  I know because I've done it," he said.  "But when I really sold out for Christ and made my mind up to live for him, I stopped wanting to sleep with her.  It wasn't an overnight process, but I gave up before she did. Even after months of me telling her I was not sleeping with her anymore, she still tried to pressure me for sex. She kept saying she loved me, but I didn't love her; I lusted after her with my eyes, as Pastor Raymond said in today's session. When I first started having sex with her, I had no idea I had given her an STI." "You gave her gonorrhea?" I asked.  "No, I gave her a sexually transmitted illusion by having sex with her every chance she would let me.  I deceived her by making her think I was in love with her but I wasn't.  I only wanted to fulfill my sexual needs, and she was like an old shoe, comfortable and worn in.  I made promises to her while we were having sex that I knew I wasn't going to keep.  I got in her mind and made her think I loved her, but it wasn't love.  Now don't hold that against me," Brian said. "That was BC." "What is BC?" I asked.  "Before Christ," Brian said.  I listened as it seemed Brian was speaking of my actions with Eric. Constantly thinking of where he was and who he was with. Every time he called I made myself available for him and I knew it was going to end with sex. My emotions were all tied up with him and it was just as Pastor Raymond said, I had formed an ungodly soul tie with him because we were doing what God ordained for married couples. He was making deposits like Brian said, and I was receiving his deposits not knowing how they would affect me. I was allowing Eric to come in and out of my life like a rubber band, using me for his purpose, and his purpose was to fulfill his sexual needs. I sat there as I silently asked myself if Brian was a distraction I tried to use to get over Eric. My answer was yes, but it didn't work. Eric's deposits into my soul were very deep, but with Brian, Pastor Raymond's and God's help, I was breaking free of the hold he had on me."I never wanted to have sex with you until we were married," Brian said.  "I didn't want to disrespect you or the relationship I had with God, and besides I knew you were worth the wait." "Aww," I said. My eyes were opened so much, because when I met Eric, I think my self-esteem was low from being raped, and I wanted the attention of a man to make me feel good about myself. I think I fell prey to all Eric's compliments. I constantly gave myself to Eric to feel loved and to get his attention, and that's why he never gave me his heart. I was only looking for attention. It was all coming full circle. Not only was Eric using me, but in a very weird way, I was also using him. He was giving me compliments, and in exchange for his flattery I was giving him good sex. He was playing with my emotions, and I was fulfilling his sexual desires. I guess now that I look at it, he wasn't using me, we were using each other.Brian said, "You are my only soul tie because I can't get enough of you, and my emotions are completely wrapped in your love."  "You are too much," I said.  As we talked, I asked him what he thought about our session.  "I thought it was very enlightening.  I had no idea a soul tie is starts in our mind by what we see," Brian said.  "I know, but I believe it."  I said.  I thought about how the first thing I noticed when I looked at Eric was his brown eyes and how they caught my attention from across the room.  I allowed him to come closer to me than I had allowed any man.  I even remembered how I knew exactly what his lips were saying from across the room because they looked so good to me.  Listening to Brian was really helping me realize I helped Eric use memaybe not intentionally, but I did.  "We've got to get out of here," Brian said.  "Why?"  I asked. "Because I want you right now." he said.  "You are so..." "...in love with you. Yes I am, now let's go." We went home and finished developing our Godly soul tie because he never gave me an STI, and I was ever so thankful.   







BABY MAMA DRAMAWhen I woke up the next day I was officially eight weeks pregnant, I think.  It was the day Brian and I had agreed to go and take a paternity test.  This could change everything, I thought to myself.  The two weeks of counseling we had just gone through could be our last.  So many negative thoughts kept rushing through my mind that morning.  Brian had already left to go pick up my vehicle from the mechanic, as he would be leaving for an out-of-town revival the next day and wanted to make sure I had transportation.  This man is so thoughtful, how could I ever think of living without him? I've been at the front of his thoughts since we first met and always on his mind. And the devil had me thinking he was just a distraction. How could I think he was just a distraction when I know after all that has happened he was God sent? Thank you, Lord, is all I kept saying to myself.  Thank you for this understanding man who has agreed to be with me through thick and thin.  Thank you for this man who says regardless of the results, he's going to love me and this child. Thank you, Lord. By the time I finished getting dressed, Brian was walking through the door."I'm home, dear, and your car is just like new. Are you dressed and ready?" he asked. "Yes, I'm dressed and ready," I replied.  "Well, did you eat something? I don't want you sick while I'm gone," he said.  "Yes honey, I ate and prayerfully my morning sickness has passed," I said. Before we left to go take the paternity test, Brian grabbed my hand and said a short prayer of victory. He said regardless of the outcome, it will be our child, because love conquers all. I would love to say it was my hormones that had me all up in my emotions, but I believe it was guilt, anxiety and stress that played a major role. I was very concerned about the results of the paternity test, and I broke out in tears.Wednesday, December 4, 1991, was a day I shall never forget.  When we arrived at my doctor's office, I started feeling queasy like never before.  Brian started rebuking the devil like crazy. It worked because I never threw up, and shortly the feeling passed.  "Nerves, I guess," I said to Brian.  "I suppose so," he said, "but there's nothing to be nervous about."  We walked into my gynecologist's office. Brian had a seat, and I went and checked in at the front desk; I provided them my name, and they handed me a long questionnaire to complete.  I tell you, this paperwork had to be at least 20 pages thick, if not more. They asked questions from my mother's history of cancer to my father's history of diabetes.  Questions from what age was my first menstrual cycle to what age did I start having sex.  Questions asking whether I'd had any abortions, any stillbirths... I mean, the list went on and onI felt like I was being undressed under a microscope, but I was fully dressed.  It took me at least thirty minutes to complete all the paperwork they handed me, and when I finally finished, I felt like I was applying for a job to work with the CIA, as they knew all about me and I knew nothing about them.  It was another 15 minutes when the nurse finally called my name and escorted me to, you guessed it, a waiting room where she took my blood pressure, checked my temperature and weight and told me the doctor would be in shortly.  I considered myself a blessed woman, as I knew many young women my age who had children but went through the pregnancy without the help of their child's father, and here I was with my husband, having our first child. At least I was hoping it was our first child and not that devil Eric's. Lord forgive me for calling that man a devil, because I know he's not the devil, but I swear he's got to be his son.After another 20 minutes or so, in walks the doctor.  "Good morning, Teresa, I'm Doctor Melody Prather, you were referred to me by the on-call physician during your scare at the hospital. Good to meet you, and I presume you are Mr. Hodges," she said to Brian.  "Yes, I'm Mr." "According to your paperwork, Teresa, you should be around eight weeks along. In the first trimester it is my practice to test for several things. With your permission, I will do a blood test to identify your blood type, screen for anemia, check for your immunity to German measles, and test for hepatitis B, syphilis, HIV, and other sexually transmitted diseases. We will also do a urine test to look for signs of kidney infection, and the urine test will also allow us to confirm your pregnancy by measuring your hCG level.  Every time you come for a checkup, a urine test will be done to detect glucose, which is a sign of diabetes, and albumin, a protein that may indicate preeclampsia, known as pregnancy-induced high blood pressure. I know it sounds like a lot of tests, but they are all for the health of you and the child you are carrying." "Doctor Prather, that does sound like a lot of tests," Brian said.  "I understand your concern," she said to Brian, "but these tests will not harm your unborn child or your wife." After listening to all the tests the doctor was going to run that day, my queasiness came back, but I think it was all stress-related, as once again, I did not throw up. When the doctor finally finished her spiel I was tired just from listening to everything she said. Having a child is serious, and I honestly had really never given much thought as to the seriousness of caring for a child or giving birth to a healthy baby. Whether I was ready or not, I was soon going to be somebody's mother. Imagine that, my life was changing quickly, and whether I agreed to the changes or not, they were happening. As I was sitting on the table soaking all this new information in, Brian asked about the paternity test."Doctor, would my wife be able to take a paternity test today?" he asked.  I couldn't believe he asked my doctor this personal question.  Why would he think I would be ok taking a paternity test with the doctor who will be seeing me for the next nine months? Why would he think its ok for everyone in this office to know my integrity was questionable, that I'd cheated on my husband?  All these thoughts suddenly raced uncontrollably through my mind.  I know I had no right to be upset, but I was. We could have gone somewhere and had the test taken anonymously, not here.  I didn't think we were going to take the test here.  As I was having my secret fit, I heard the doctor answer Brian. "Yes, Mr. Hodges, I can do a chorionic villus sampling, a procedure where I take a needle to biopsy placental cells that are derived from the same fertilized eggs as the fetus.  This procedure can be done at ten weeks, so you would have to schedule a consultation for me to discuss the risk associated with the procedure. Then if you decide to go forward with the procedure, we would schedule an appointment; it is a non-invasive procedure that I do at the hospital. Today, we'll just do the necessary blood work and get Teresa out of here."  While they were talking, it sounded like a conversation going on between the Peanuts character, Charlie Brown, and his school teacher. All I could hear was, whaa-whaa-whaa, blood, whaa-whaa-whaa-test-whaa-whaa-whaa-accuracy, whaa-whaa-whaa-ten weeks.  Oh no, we would have to wait another two weeks. I couldn't believe it. I heard Brian ask the doctor why the hospital nurse had said it could be done at eight weeks. Doctor Prather said it could, she just didn't recommend it until ten weeks, and she wouldn't do the procedure without consultation first.  I'm glad the nurse took my blood pressure before I received all this news, because I'm certain it was dropping by the second. My head was spinning from their conversation, which didn't seem to include me.  The nurse came in and drew what I swore was a bucket of blood, followed by my having to force myself to pee.  I thought I would be able to pee easily, being pregnant and all, but I guess I was too... something. As I stood there trying to squat and hold the pee cup at the same time, I started thinking, this is the beginning of pregnant life. My body no longer belonged to me and me alone, but I was now sharing it with someone else.  Hmmm, maybe I should have thought like this when it came to Brian. My body not belonging to me alone, but to him, because if I remember correctly, Pastor Jeffries said two shall be one flesh, we were no more twain, was the word he used, but one flesh. Why couldn't I remember this scripture when I was being drawn to Eric like a maggot drawn to garbage? That's how I felt, like a maggot, dirty and filthy, like dirty trash. Was it because my sins had found me out or because I was really sick of myself and the pain I was causing my husband? The man I was supposed to be one with, and I was causing him all this pain. Lord, help me, I said to myself. I should have been one with him; why hadn't the soul tie strengthened with the man I love?  Why did it take me getting pregnant to realize I was supposed to be one with my husband? Maybe I wouldn't have been whoring around.  Finally, a stream of water started to flow, and just like that, Thank God, I'm done with all these tests for today.  I washed my hands and the nurse came in to collect the sample to carry off to test land. She told us to check out at the front desk before we left.   "How do you feel, love?" Brian asked. "I don't know how I feel," I said.  "I should be asking you how you feel. You're the one having to take a paternity test with a woman you married.  I was supposed to be one with you, but I let the devil drag me back to the plot he had planned for me.  A plot he meant to bury me in. I feel like trash," I told him.  "Don't beat yourself up," he said. "It's over and done with. If you've repented, you just have to ask God to give you strength not to ever go back." "Thank you, dear, for believing in me. Thank you for believing in this marriage," I said as we walked out of the room and headed for the front desk.  "Because I'm a child of God, I've got to do as my Father and forgive. I already believe in my heart this child is ours, birthed out of a night of hot, steamy passion," he said.  "If you believe," I said, "then I believe." When we got to the front desk, I handed the paperwork the nurse gave me to the front desk clerk, and she scheduled me a consultation with the doctor on next Wednesday to discuss the paternity procedure. I took the reminder card and put it in my purse. I silently said a prayer that the child I was carrying was truly the man's I married.As we rode home, the drive was pretty quiet.  "Are you going to revival with me tomorrow?" Brian asked.  "No honey, I don't think I should take the ride after all this blood I've given today; I'm sort of drained." Brian reached over and grabbed my hand. "Please take it easy, you're carrying precious cargo, our precious cargo." "I will dear, I'm going to finish this week's paperwork and take it to the office on Friday and spend the next two days missing you," I replied like a good wife would.  "Do that," Brian said, "because I sure miss you when you're not with me. You are the rib that was missing from my side, and now that I have you I'll never let you go."  "Did you take a course in chivalry? Because you know exactly what to say.""No, I just watched how Pastor Raymond treated Lady Raymond and saw how it would make her blush, so I know it had to be working for them to be married all these years," he said.  "You are a good study," I said. "You sure know how to melt my heart." "That's how I won your heart, girl, didn't you know? I was working on you the day I laid eyes on you." "Is that so?" I said.  "Yeah, you caught my attention, and it wasn't in the flesh, I already told you that," he said.  "I thought you were out of my league so I had to pull out my best lines on you. You had me at hello." I started laughing like a schoolgirl when he said that, and just like that, my mind was free momentarily of the thoughts that were plaguing me.  Before going home, we stopped and had pizza for lunch and stopped at a few other stores to pick up items so I wouldn't need to leave the house if I didn't want to.  When we got home I went and lay on the couch, stretched my feet out, and turned on the TV while Brian went into the bedroom to pack for revival the next few nights.  When he finished packing, he came and sat next to me on the couch and put his feet on me.  We relaxed and watched TV for a little while before I got up and starting fixing dinner.  Studying the scripture Pastor Raymond assigned us had become part of our routine after dinner.  I was growing stronger in the Word and with purpose this time.  I think when I was dating Brian, I was learning, but I wasn't growing.  I was studying with him because he wanted me to.  This time I was studying because I wanted to be a stronger Christian so I wouldn't fall into temptation again.  I loved how Brian expounded on God's word, and I could tell he really loved to give me clarity.  I even appreciate how when I gave my thoughts, he didn't put me down for not being on his level.  He accepted what I said because it was my perspective; if it was wrong, he gently corrected me and showed me how to run cross-references in the Bible to check my thoughts against God's word.  He was truly a God-fearing man, leading his wife like Pastor Raymond instructed married couples to do.  I was really thankful to God for blessing me with such a God-fearing husband, one I could trust. The night ended as quickly as it came, and it was time for bed. As always, Brian led us in prayer before we started practicing strengthening our soul tie. I thought about what Pastor Jeffries said, "Either you're practicing or you're pretending," and Brian loved practicing.  The few days while Brian was away running revival, I completed my work and about three in the afternoon, I decided to take it into the office. I hadn't driven since I'd blacked out a few weeks before, and my morning sickness was slowing down, so I felt safe leaving the house.  I was growing as a wife, mother-to-be and Christian.  My heart was with my husband, and for the first time, I felt confident saying that.  I got on the elevator to go down to the garage and get into my car.  Low and behold, who do I see coming up the corridor, nobody but slewfoot himself, Eric.  Girl, stop calling him slewfoot, he is not the devil, I said to myself.  Maybe not, but he's got to be his brother or best friend, I silently added.  I didn't want him to see me, because I was beginning to show, and I did not want him to think he was the father of my child, with his ugly self.  Why was this man still able to bring out the ugly in me? I hadn't seen him since Brian put a whooping on him.  I prayed not to see him. Could this be a test? Lord, I don't think I can handle this test, can I?
While he was busy talking on his mobile phone, I quickly ran back into the building and went into the women's restroom in the lobby.  I did not want to see him, and neither did I want him to see me.  I was still mad at him for taking advantage of me while I was drunk.  I hid out in the women's bathroom for about fifteen minutes, long enough for him to get on the elevator and long enough  for me to be sure he was out of sight.  Yes, I missed him, I thought as I got in my car and drove to the office.  God, if that was a test, I was not ready to face the devil. Oh yeah, and please God, help me to stop calling this man the devil. I know he's your child, but... I know, there are no buts. Amen.  I drove to my office and turned in my paperwork.  I actually turned in my resignation, as well.  I didn't tell Brian I was going to quit my job because I felt I needed my marriage more than I needed a job right now.  It had gotten cold in Chicago, and Christmas was right around the corner. I got back into the car and decided to go and get a few items for Christmas dinner before going home, as my mother and step-father were coming for dinner as well as Brian's family. When I finished shopping, I headed back to the condo and called it a night.  I checked the answering machine, and there was a message from Brian, as I'd missed our prayer time before he went to service.  His message said, "I love you, and I'm looking forward to kissing you and our baby tomorrow." One more week, and I would know who the father of my child was.  I shouldn't have been thinking that, especially since I'd told Brian I believed with him.  Oh ye of little faith, I said to myself.  I fixed myself some dinner, worked on the homework Pastor Raymond had given us and drifted off to sleep. 







A MARRIAGE WORTH FIGHTING FORI had made plans to fix Brian breakfast when he came in Saturday morning, but when I woke up he was already walking in the door.  "Good morning love, I missed you two," he said.  "Good morning dear, I missed you," I said.  "Come on, get dressed," he said. "I've got some great news I want to share with you." I can use some great news, I said to myself.  I got dressed and we went to breakfast.  "The revival was beyond anointed," Brian started, "I knew God was going to do something supernatural because of all we've been going through.  While there, I had a meeting with the senior pastor and his staff; they invited me out. The pastor kept raving about how many people were blessed in the Thursday night revival and then he told me he talked with Pastor Raymond about my character," Brian went on. "He offered me a position of associate pastor; honey, do you know what this means? I don't have to go on the road as much. I will be stationary and able to be with you during the pregnancy. We can now be together all the time." "That's great honey, if that's what you want," I said.  "Yes, it's what I want," he said. "I've wanted nothing more since we got married to sleep in the bed with you every night; that's a blessing. Wait until I tell Pastor Raymond! I'm so excitedno more Chicago, no more freezing winters." I could tell my husband was excited, and I was excited for him.  "So when does your new position start?" I asked.  "I haven't accepted the offer yet," he said. "I needed to talk to you first and then get Pastor Raymond's blessing. What do you think?" "If that's what you've been praying for, then it must be of God," I said.  "I will go wherever you lead me as long as I know you love me." He grabbed my hands and started rubbing them; he was so excited. I could hear it in his voice and see it in his eyes.  "When does the job start?" I asked.  "If Pastor Raymond gives me his blessings, I will start the week after New Year. How will you like living in Florida?" Brian asked me.  "We'll both have to get used to living in a warm state," I said. "What are our parents going to say?" "We're married," he said, "and as long as we are together they should have nothing to say," Brian said. "I guess you're right, I was just thinking about the baby." I said.  "You and our babies and I will be all right wherever we are, as long as we are in the will of God." "As usual, you're right," I said. When we left breakfast, we went home. Brian was so excited he couldn't think of anything else but his new position. I didn't even tell him I quit my job; he didn't give me a chance. Once again I was feeling irrelevant, but I dared not make it about me and ruin his good news.Saturday went just as quickly as it had come. Brian was up, had fixed breakfast, and was sitting at the table meditating when I woke up Sunday morning. "Come on, sweetie, get a move on, I don't want to be late," he said.  "I know how you are about time, dear. I won't make you late.""Are you feeling well?" he asked.  "I'm ok," I said. He used to ask me about myself first, and everything else was second. He's changing, I thought to myself, but I kept it to myself. "If you don't want to come to Sunday School this morning, you can meet me at church," Brian said.  That's a first; he never wanted me to drive myself to church before, I thought. "Yes, I'll drive myself," I said."Ok, loveI'll see you at service. Don't be late," he said and walked out the house. I hoped it was just the excitement of his new position.  My husband was very attentive to me, but since he got home it's been all about him. He hadn't even asked me how I was feeling. I ate slowly, as I tried to digest in my mind what was going on between Brian and me.  I didn't have time to think about that, because I was running behind, and I didn't want to be late for church.  Maybe I'd mention it to him later that night.  I quickly got dressed and rushed out the house so I wouldn't be too late.  One thing for certain I would not miss about Illinois were those extreme winters. Florida would be a welcomed change!  When I made it to church, I had to walk fast so I wouldn't be in the crowd that walks in after the prayer and scripture have been read, the group everyone knows was blocked by the ushers at the door. I walked up where my husband and I normally sat, and he grabbed my hand to let me know he was happy I made it.  Maybe it was just my emotions running away with methis man loved me and I loved him, and nothing could or would change that.After morning worship Brian and I met with Pastor Raymond about the newly offered position. Of course Pastor Raymond gave him his blessings and told us he looked forward to our session this coming Tuesday; he was still working on the list of questions I gave him, and he had something for me. Brian asked to be excused from Sunday evening service to spend time with his pregnant wife, and we were excused.  I loved how Brian honored our leaders, which let me know he would be a great leader, and the congregation he would soon be serving was getting a special person in him.  The rest of Sunday we lounged around the house and worked on the homework Pastor Raymond had given us for Tuesday's session. We talked about the upcoming doctor appointment, and we both agreed to my having the CVS procedure done, as we were doing it in faith, believing in our hearts Brian was the father of our love child.Sunday came and went just as Monday did. Tuesday morning we talked over breakfast about our homework assignment titled, "Is Your Marriage Worth Fighting For?" We agreed not to tell each other our answers so we could hear one another's thoughts during our counseling session with Pastor Raymond. Time flew by so quickly that morning after breakfast. Before I knew it, it was time to go to our session. I really enjoyed our sessions with Pastor Raymond; he was full of wisdom, and I loved how he esteemed his wife.  He said the Bible instructs us to not be selfishdon't try to impress others, but be humble, thinking of others as better than ourselves, and he does that with his wife.  We made it to the church, and this time I didn't have a sick spell.  I was able to walk in without fear and shame weighing me down.  The shackles that were once on my feet were falling off, and my feet were getting lighter and lighter as the days went by.  Just as he'd done in weeks prior, Pastor Raymond started out with prayer and a scripture reading, and then he asked had we done our homework? In unison we both said yes.  "I'll start with you, Elder Hodges. Is your marriage worth fighting for?" Pastor Raymond asked. "Yes, Pastor, our marriage is worth fighting for," Brian said.  "When I think of Teresa, I think of how I can't imagine living without her. I think of how God strategically placed her in my life for such a time as this. I think of how I felt before I met her. I prayed for true and lasting love, and I asked God to reveal the woman to me when it was time, and I believe in my heart when I laid eyes on Teresa it was time.  I remember our wedding vows, in sickness in health, for better or worse, 'til death do us part. I think of all these things and I tell myself yes, our marriage is worth fighting for." Brian said.  "That's good to hear, Elder Hodges, now let me hear what the Mrs. has to say." "I believe with my whole heart our marriage is worth fighting for. I've done so much wrong that I don't feel worthy of my husband's love, yet he loves me in spite of the wrong I did. Pastor Raymond, I don't understand why, when I haven't slept with my ex in such a long time that I keep having dreams about him. I keep thinking about him. Can you help, please, answer that question?" I asked.  "Teresa," Pastor Raymond said, "the reason you keep having dreams about your ex is because there is no forgiveness in your heart towards him.  There are some things you must do in order for the soul tie you formed with this man to be broken.  The first step in receiving freedom from a soul tie is to acknowledge you have a problem that you can't handle. I believe you've already done that. The second step to freedom from this deeply rooted soul tie is to confess your sin and repent to God. I believe you've already done this, as well.  Now, the third step to freedom keeps a lot of people in bondage, as they find this difficult to do, but it must be done with sincerity of heart.  Forgive,"  he said.  "Forgiveness allows us to face what we've done in the past without fear, so we can move forward by faith and receive our freedom.  There are three steps to forgiveness.  After you repent of your wrongdoings to God, you must accept that he forgives you for the sins you've committed.  Romans 5:1 says, 'Therefore, since we have been made right in God's sight by faith, we have peace with God because of what Jesus Christ our Lord has done for us.' When God forgives us, He throws our sin into the sea of forgetfulness, and He never brings it back up, but it's up to us to believe that He will never bring it back up.  Even if your husband brings it up out of anger, God has forgotten about it.  When God justifies us, he brings us back to a rightful place with Him as though we've done no wrong. The second part to forgiveness is forgiving yourself. Yes, Sis Hodges, you must forgive yourself.  The enemy plays tricks in our minds.  He wants us to believe that God has not forgiven us, and so he tries to beat us down with the mistakes we made in our past, but glory hallelujah, God won the victory for us on the cross. He nailed your sins, my sins, and your husband's sins to the cross. There is nothing we can do that God won't forgive us for, and he wants us to accept by faith that we've been forgiven.  Sis Hodges, every day if you must, tell yourself, 'I will not let my past interfere with my present; I'm moving forward in faith!' and mean it." I could feel Pastor Raymond's passion as he was speaking, and I was receiving everything he was saying. "The third step of forgiveness, Sis Hodges, is to forgive the other person." Now I don't know if I can do that, I thought to myself.  "I read somewhere that unforgiveness is like drinking poison and hoping the other person dies.  It sounds foolish because it is foolish. The Word tells us in Matthew 6:14, 'If we forgive those who sin against us, our heavenly Father will forgive us.' Many times we don't consider having sex with someone who is not our spouse as a trespass against God, but according to the dictionary the word trespass means 'to enter the owner's land or property without permission'. We are God's property, and when a person has sexual relations with someone God has not given them permission to have sex with, then both people have trespassed against one another and God.  Yes, as a single person, your body does not belong to you, it belongs to God.  First Corinthians 6:19 tells us, 'Don't you realize that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, who lives in you and was given to you by God? You do not belong to yourself.' When two people unite in holy matrimony as you and Elder Hodges did, even though your bodies still belong to God, in First Corinthians 7:4, it says, 'the wife does not have authority over her own body but yields it to her husband. In the same way, the husband does not have authority over his own body but yields it to his wife.' It is only in marriage that God gives us permission to give ourselves to our spouses. First Corinthians 6:1 tells us to 'flee from sexual immorality. All other sins a person commits are outside the body, but whoever sins sexually, sins against their own body.' When sin entered the earth it started wreaking havoc on God's creative order, poisoning relationships beginning with Adam and Eve's.  Because of sin we now have confusion, conflict and pain in relationships, which is not what God intended from the beginning. A sexual soul tie whether Godly or ungodly is a spiritual connection between two people who have been physically intimate with each other.  A sexual soul tie can be compared to super glue. In marriage it is the glue that binds a husband and wife together when the storms of life come. It is the glue that binds the husband and wife together when the enemy has raged an all-out attack against them in every area of life.  God knew we would need this super glue to hold us together in times we feel like giving up. God knew that after the honeymoon there would be bills to pay, kids to raise, clothes to wash and meals to cook. He knew that momma would get tired of doing dirty clothes week after week, and daddy would get tired of hearing screaming kids when he walked through the door, so he created this super glue bond to help keep marriages together.  He knew that whenever Elder Hodges looks in Sis Hodges' eyes, this bond they share would help them forget about the cares of life and realize they are in it together. Come what may from day to day, they are in it to win it. Sis Hodges, you've got to forgive your ex so you can move forward.  If you don't forgive him, then the enemy will use that same super glue to keep that ungodly soul tie lingering in your life, and it will hinder your present relationship.  It will keep you from fully committing to your husband, because your mind will have you thinking you are missing out and maybe not being completely fulfilled by your husband, which you know is a lie from the pits of hell."Wow, Pastor Raymond was really teaching.  I had no idea I was so deep in sin. I needed to repent all over again, I thought to myself. "Sis Hodges, I have gone overtime today, but I wanted to share those steps with you so you can get started on your journey to freedom. God has great things in store for you and Elder Hodges, and I don't want the enemy to destroy the plans God has for the two of you," Pastor Raymond said. "Next week, I'm going to invite my wife in on the session, if that's ok with you two."  We both agreed it was ok. "She's a nurse, and I want her to share something with you that will help you," he said. "Your homework for next week is to study First Corinthians 7:1-5 and tell me what you learned in those verses." Pastor Raymond prayed as he dismissed us from our counseling session.On the way home we talked about our session with Pastor Raymond, the wealth of information he'd provided us, and how we've been enjoying our sessions with him. "Honey, Christmas is a few weeks away, and I picked up the turkey while you were away last week," I said."That's good, love, our little apartment is going to be cramped with both our families, but that will be exciting. I'm looking forward to sharing our good news with the family. I know both our mothers will be thrilled to learn they will be grandmothers.""I'm excited too, dear, but I'm a little anxious about the consultation tomorrow with Doctor Prather.""Why are you nervous?" Brian asked. "Everything will be all right. God is with us and He's for us. He won't let anything happen to you or the baby. We've come too far and been through too much for God to fail us. Have faith."And just like that, I was settled.  Instead of stopping for lunch we decided to grab lunch on the go and take it home with us. When we got home and finished eating we decided to relax until later that night.  I started wondering if I should tell Brian I'd quit my job or wait for him to ask me what was I going to do about my job. The day was perfect and I decided not to add any tension to it, so I kept my job status to myself until I felt it was a good time to mention it. Later that night we agreed to work on the first two verses from the homework Pastor Raymond had given us. First Corinthians 7, verses one and two read, "Now concerning things whereof ye wrote unto me: it is good for a man not to touch a woman. Nevertheless, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife, and every woman have her own husband." Every time we sat to discuss the Word, we always prayed, as Brian said that helped us to receive the revelation God wanted to share with us at that particular time. It also gives us teachable spirits so we can hear his voice speaking to us through His word and most importantly, it keeps our voice from dismissing the voice of God. When I finished reading, Brian started with his perception of the two passages I read by stating he felt men and women were not supposed to have sex outside of marriage, which is why the word fornication is used, as unmarried people fornicate.  He went on to say how the writer, Paul, was addressing a question the Corinthians had asked, as the church was dealing with many sinful struggles at that time.  He said Paul was not referring to a hug or a handshake, but he was talking about sexual intercourse. He told me that's why, when he gave his life to Christ, he knew it was wrong to have sex with a woman who was not his wife, and he no longer wanted to defile his temple.   He went on to say that it's important not to have sex outside of marriage because that's how soul ties are formed.  "You are my wife, and I should only be having sex with you and no one else.  Just like I am your husband and you should only have sex with me and no one else.""I agree with you," I said. "I realize the damage I did to myself sleeping with him, and I had no understanding of all this in God's word.  I wish I would have had a better understanding of it all before now." "We all do, love, that's why we're studying together so we can learn and grow together as one." Brian said. "Enough studying, let's call it a night; we have a full day tomorrow."       "Thanks for loving me the way you do," I said.Wednesday morning Brian woke up and fixed us breakfast before we headed to the doctor's office. Upon arriving I checked in at the front desk, and the clerk handed me a pamphlet that read "Chorionic Villus Sampling and Amniocentesis". I walked over where Brian was sitting and handed him the pamphlet so we could read it together. It was so long and boring I could hardly focus on what I was reading, but he was heavily engaged, like he was reading a great novel.  I guess that's some of the difference between men and womensomething I thought was like watching paint dry held his attention like his favorite football team, the Cowboys. We didn't have to wait nearly as long as we did for my first exam; the nurse called my name about 20 minutes from the time we arrived.  She took us to an office where we waited another ten minutes for Doctor Prather.  "Good afternoon, Mr. and Mrs. Hodges. Did you get a chance to read over the pamphlet you were given?" she asked.  "Yes, I read it over," Brian said.  "Let me tell you the pros and cons of the procedure, and then you two tell me if it's something you want to go through with," she said.  As she started talking with Brian and me, once again, I felt like the Peanuts character Charlie Brown when his teacher called his home. I heard "whaa-whaa-whaa needle to biopsy placental cells whaa-whaa-whaa same fertilized eggs as the fetus whaa-whaa-whaa 10-12 weeks gestation whaa-whaa-whaa CVS widely used worldwide whaa-whaa-whaa outpatient procedure done at the hospital whaa-whaa-whaa risk of miscarriage whaa-whaa-whaa results in one to seven days whaa-whaa-whaa."  When the doctor finished, she said "I'm going to step out of the room to allow you and your wife to discuss what you want to do and which procedure."  When Doctor Prather stepped out of the office, Brian asked my thoughts on everything the doctor had said.  Truth be told, I was not listening, as my mind had drifted to another place.  Somewhere far, far, away, and I told Brian if I had to do it, I would do the procedure where they stick the needle through my abdomen.  "It's your decision," he said.  "If you don't want to go through that, it's all right with me. I have no problem waiting until after our child is born for results. Either way, I'm not going anywhere." "I believe you, but deep in my heart, I want to know for myself so I can have this heavy burden lifted," I said.  "Honey, you should not feel like you're carrying a heavy burden," he said. "A child is not a burden. A child is a gift from God."  "I know, but that's how I feel," I said. When the doctor stepped back in the room, Brian told her we wished to go forward with the procedure and which way we thought was best.  The doctor left the room again to schedule the procedure with the hospital, and when she came back in it was scheduled for the following Tuesday, the day we normally have our sessions with Pastor Raymond.  We left the doctor's office and headed back home so Brian could finish packing for the week's revival trip. I told him on the way home I was going with him; he still had not asked me about my job, and neither had I mentioned it to him. When we got home I started packing to go with my husband, and I started thinking about everything Pastor Raymond said in our counseling session the day before.  It was all such an eye-openerhe said so much I had never heard or even thought of.  Soul ties are an eye-opening topic I hope many men and women come to find out about. I was really in deep thought from what he'd said about forgiveness, having to forgive the other person.  Was I capable of forgiving that man? Did I even want to forgive him? Yes, I had to if I wanted my marriage to last.  I needed to so I could be free of him once and for all. Help me, Lord, I thought to myself. Wednesday night we agreed to forgo our Bible study so Brian could meditate on the Word he was going to share during revival the next two nights. I was looking forward to being with my husband, as he was a great evangelist and would be a great associate pastor.   







THE STRUGGLE IS OVERI was looking forward to being with my husband and hearing him preach during the revival in St. Louis, Missouri. It was roughly a five-hour drive from our home. We left for St. Louis around 7:00 that morning so Brian could have time to study and pray before service. After gassing up and grabbing something to eat, we hit the road. I'd been on quite a few trips with my husband, and by then I knew to keep the conversation light so not to ruffle his feathers before he spoke to God's people. Yes, I was learning as a minister's wife that my husband needed to hear from God in order to feed his sheep, and he did not need any chaos coming from the woman he loved before he ministered. I decided to pull out my issue of Ebony magazine with the cover photo of Michael Jordan and his wife Juanita. As I flipped through the pages of the magazine, I came across an article titled, "How Do You Know When You Have Found Mr. or Ms. Right?" by Lynn Norment. The article told a story about a man from St. Louis who within three months of meeting his wife knew she was the one, and three years later they were married.  The article posed the question, how can you tell when you've actually found Mr. or Ms. Right? "Honey," I said, "this article asks how you know when you've found Mr. or Ms. Right. How did you know I was the one?" "I knew you were the one because I felt you were a good person, and you support my interests and we share the same values," he said. "How did you know I was the one?"  "I knew you were the one," I said, "because I felt love and acceptance with you. I felt I could share my thoughts with you without being judged, and even when we have an argument and disagree, I still feel you love and respect me.  I actually feel safe being myself with you." "That's good, because I want you to be yourself with me," Brian said.  "I believe that's a big part of love, not having to hide who you really are with the person you want to spend the rest of your life with.  Having that person know about your past and accept you for who you are and not what you were." "That's food for thought," I told Brian, "I never looked at it like that, but you're right. Thank you for accepting my past and not holding it over my head."  "I wouldn't be a Godly man if I held your past over your head. God doesn't hold my past over my head, and neither do you hold me to my past. Thank you for loving me for who I am. Let the past be the past; we're creating something powerful that the devil won't destroy," Brian said. When we finished talking I let the smooth sounds of Al Jarreau's "We're In This Love Together" take us the rest of the way. I reached over and grabbed my love's hand and starting singing to the music. "We're in this love together, we got the kind that lasts forever, we're in this love together, and like berries on the vine it gets sweeter all the time." I kept hitting rewind on the cassette and sang that song for about fifteen minutes. I'm sure when Brian finally looked over at me, he gave me the sideways eye, and I had come to learn its meaning.  We arrived at the hotel shortly after two o'clock, as we stopped for an hour or so to eat lunch.  After checking us into our room, it was Brian's custom to go to the church he was speaking at and pray for souls to be reclaimed during the revival. Today was no different.  "Rest up or eat, whatever you need to do," he said. "We are about 30 minutes from the church, so I'd like to leave here a little early in case there is traffic. I'll be back to get you at 6:45." "I'll be ready," I said.  When he left the room, I set the alarm so I wouldn't oversleep and took a nap. Before I knew it the alarm was ringing; I woke up and got myself together.  I was always in great expectation when I traveled with my husband on the evangelist field, because he always had a soul-stirring message for God's people.  Just as Brian had said, it was about 6:30 when he returned to the room.  "Did you get some rest and eat?" "Yes, love, I did. How about you?" I asked like a good, concerned wife.  "No, you know I fast until after service." He came and gave me a kiss as he whisked me out to the car. "I love having you with me," he said. "It makes me feel so important."  I laughed to myself. "How does my being here with you make you feel important?" I asked.  "Girl, you just don't know how you make me feel, how much I love you... By the way, I didn't tell you, we're staying in the city until Monday for a little rest and relaxation. I need it, and I know you need it," he said. "That's very thoughtful of you," I said. "Does Pastor Raymond know we will be missing in action Sunday?" "Yes, of course he knows! I'm a good son; I never leave without notice," he said.  "Yes, you are a good son and a good husband and soon to be a good father," I said. That was so thoughtful, I said to myself. Maybe we can reconnect, or should I say, maybe I can reconnect with my husband in a special way, prayerfully.When we arrived at the church we were greeted by the pastor's armor-bearer, who escorted Brian and me to the pastor's office. Brian introduced me to the pastor and his wife, and like usual, he stayed in the pastor's office, and I walked into church with the pastor's wife.  People were still gathering for service as we walked in. Service began with prayer and a scripture, followed by songs of praise.  The associate minister went to the podium and read the announcements and then called the choir for two selections. They started with an upbeat song that had all the young people on their feet, but the song they finished with had all the seasoned saints standing up in worship, "I Don't Feel No Ways Tired" by James Cleveland. Some of the words said, "I've been sick, I've been in trouble, but God brought me," and the choir kept singing, "I don't believe he brought me this far to leave me."  The words of the song were so inspiring.  As I sat and thought about Pastor Raymond telling me that in order to be free I needed to forgive myself for what I did and to forgive the other person.  "God help me to forgive myself." I started crying as the woman singing the song told how the days she walked with Jesus kept getting brighter and brighter. "Help me, Father, to release this bitterness I hold in my heart towards Eric and Sam. God help me to be free so I can move forward with my husband," I prayed.  The tears starting flowing heavier and heavier as I heard the choir sing, "Nobody told me the road would be easy, I don't believe he brought me this far to leave me." "God, I don't believe you brought me this farhelp, my Lord!" I cried out. The choir kept singing, and people starting praising God, and the atmosphere in the church went up. There was nothing but worship and praise. I kept saying that God had not brought me this far to leave me until I convinced myself of it.    I was so caught up in the Spirit that when Brian and the pastor walked in, I didn't notice. I kept hearing the words the choir was singing, and I know they were singing directly to me.  "Yes," I said with tears in my eyes, "God didn't bring me this far to leave me." I was having a praise party all by myself.  I was determined to be free, and if it took asking God for forgiveness, I was determined.  When I finally came to myself, I looked over and tears were flowing from my husband's eyes like I had never witnessed before.  He was being touched in a different way.  The Spirit was so high in the church! The Pastor briefly introduced Brian and turned the service over to him. I was still in tears when Brian walked up to the pulpit, and as he does when I'm with him, he greeted the congregation, introduced me as his lovely bride and told the congregation we were expecting our first child.  After my introduction, Brian gave his sermon title to the waiting congregation: "Fight Your Way Out"."Oh my," I said with curiosity.   FIGHT YOUR WAY OUT"Thank you, choir, for that soul-stirring song.  I do believe I've come too far from where I started from.  Hallelujah!" Brian screamed out.  "Church," he said, "I've been in a battle, yes, the storms of life have been trying to drown me, but God never told me that the road was going to be easy. I know God didn't bring me this far to leave me."  As Brian was speaking the choir started softly singing the chorus of the song, "I don't believe he brought me this far, I don't believe he brought me this far..." Brian went on preaching as the choir kept singing softly."Years ago, before I gave my life to Christ, I was home with my mother, who was watching my sister's baby.  The baby became irritated, and my mother could not soothe him, so she sent me to the nightclub where she suspected my sister was. I went into the nightclub to find my sister, and sure enough, there she was with her boyfriend.  After telling her to go home and get her baby, I saw a woman I decided to dance with, and I started getting my groove on with her.  After dancing a few songs with her, I walked out of the nightclub and was rushed by three men. They grabbed me and pulled me in the alley next to the nightclub. One of the men started accusing me of trying to take his girlfriend, and I could tell whatever I said, he was not going to hear it.  So, being from Chicago and growing up in the projects, I learned how to fight if I didn't know how to do anything else.  As these three men started swinging on me, out of the corner of my eye I saw a beer bottle; I picked it up and broke it. I knew there was no way I could win this fight without a weapon, so I backed myself into a corner, and I started swinging that broken bottle like a wild man. Before I knew it those three men had all run off, and I took off in the other direction.  I stopped by here to tell somebody tonight, God has brought you too far to leave you, and when you're in a battle, you've got to do like I didpick up the Word of God, which is our weapon, and fight your way out."  By this time the choir had gotten louder, singing, "I don't believe he brought me this far." Brian opened the altar and people flooded it, including myself. Tears were falling from my face like the Niagara Falls, constant and steady, no end in sight.  I asked God to forgive me and help me to forgive Eric and Same so I could be free.  I believe in my heart that night He did.  I felt a heavy burden release from my heart as I kept crying out to God.  I was determined to fight my way out of this situation.  I was not going to lose the best thing that had happened to me, my husband.  When the revival service was over, we stopped and grabbed something to eat and went back to the room. We didn't do much talking, as Brian was exhausted from ministering and I was exhausted from crying. We said our goodnights and went straight to sleep.Friday morning we woke up and went to breakfast. It was a relaxing morning and afternoon.  I read my Ebony magazine most of the afternoon while Brian meditated for service later.  Revival was just as powerful that night as it had been the night before.  Brian delivered an empowering message about faith, something I really needed to hear.  Just as we had the previous night, we grabbed something to eat and came back to the hotel after revival, ate and fell off to sleep.Saturday came, and we were officially on a mini-vacation. "Good morning, love, I am all yours the next two days. What is your heart's desire?" Brian asked. There were loads of brochures in the hotel room, but it was a little too chilly to be out walking, I thought.  I perused all the attractions St. Louis offered and decided to go see the Gateway Arch.  After we had breakfast, we drove over to the Gateway Arch. We walked around at the bottom and then decided to get in the tram and ride to the top. "Do you think this is a good idea?" Brian asked.  "I should be ok," I said.  My incidents of morning sickness were few and far between. We got into the small tram and rode to the top of the Archit was very, very, high. After looking out the window, my stomach started getting queasy, and I told Brian I think we needed to ride back down.  When we got to the bottom I got dizzy, but thankfully, Brian was right there to make sure I didn't fall. We spent another hour or so walking around at the bottom of the Arch when I became tired and ready to go. When we left the Arch, we went back to the hotel and ordered room service for lunch, turned on the TV, and I was out like a lamp again. When I woke up it was well after three, and Brian was up watching a football game.  "Are you feeling better, love?" he asked.  "I'm feeling much better," I said.  "I think it was the height and the ride in the small tram," I said.  "Would you like to go out for dinner or order room service?" Brian asked.  "Let's go somewhere fancy," I said.  "While you were sleeping I called the front desk and they told me of a very nice restaurant overlooking the Arch, and the clerk said it's beautiful at sunset.  How about going to the mall to find you some maternity clothes?" he said. "I noticed your skirts are getting quite snug on your hips, and I don't think that's good for the baby." "So you're calling me fat?" I asked. "No, I'm not calling you fat. I suggested we go shopping so you can get some maternity clothes. Most pregnant women get bigger, not smaller," he said.  "I've seen my sister pregnant enough to know what happens when a woman carries a child." "That's a good idea," I said, "I need some work clothes." "That's strange," Brian said.  "What's strange?""Last week when I came home I saw some papers on the dresser, and I noticed the folder had your company's logo on it, so I opened it up.  To my surprise, the paper was a Separation Notice, and it was checked voluntary, which means you quit." "If you knew I quit my job, why didn't you say something?" I asked Brian.  "Teresa, it's not my job to probe you for information. Just like I shared my good news with you, you should have shared your news with me. I told you when we were dating, I don't play games. I'm a real man, not a boy, and I don't play with toys. Sometimes you make me feel like I'm in the marriage alone." "How do I make you feel like you're in this marriage alone?" I asked. "Because you play silly little high school stuff. I thought I married a woman, not a little girl. If you wanted a man to play charades with, you should have told me, because I would not have chased you so hard," he said angrily. "Now I'm fat and I'm a little child," I said with an attitude.  "I did not call you fat; all women gain weight while they're pregnant, I don't suppose you will be any different. And I did not say you were a child, I said you were acting like a child. Now get your coat and let's go get you some clothes," he said and walked out the room. "But what about a snack?" I asked, just like the little girl he accused me of being. I put on my coat and walked out the door with my hands folded while Brian came and opened my car door.  "I think you want me to be my frat brother, Eric, but I'm not him, and I won't be him," Brian said.  "I thought I was doing a good thing staying here a few extra days. I know you need the rest, and I wanted the rest. Do we need to just pack and go home?" he asked.  "We can, if that's what you want to do," I said with an attitude.  "Too bad.  I'm not going to give you the satisfaction of being upset. You have no right to be upset. Woman, you just lied about getting some clothes for a job you don't havefor what reason I have no idea. So you do not get to be upset," Brian said as he drove off to the mall. It was a short ride from the hotel to the mall, and the scenery was beautiful; even though it was a cold December day, the sun was shining bright, which made it seem nicer than it was.  When we arrived at the mall Brian parked, and we walked in. He grabbed my hand to try and hold it and I snatched it out of his, just like the little girl he said I was. He kept grabbing it, and I kept snatching it back until finally I gave up. "Don't you know, just as hard as I chased you, I'm going to wear you down every time. You're stuck with me, girl, 'til death do us part," Brian said.  I never said one word because my stubborn spirit would not let me, but regardless, Brian hugged me tight, kissed me on the cheek and said, "You'll be all right once you learn how a real man treats a woman." We walked around in the mall until I found a maternity clothing store and went in.  I tried on quite a few things before I decided on what I liked. I paraded all my choices for my husband and before I knew it, my attitude was gone. He was right, I had no reason to be upset; I should have shared my news with him instead of thinking... I don't even remember what I was thinking. I gave my husband a kiss on the lips before I went and took off the last item I'd tried on.  I handed Brian all the items I wanted to buy, and he paid for them while I was in the dressing room getting dressed.  As I walked up to the counter, a lady was standing behind Brian.  She asked me if he was my husband. I said yes, and she told me I was lucky.  I asked her why she said that, and she said the man she is pregnant by had never gone shopping with her in the two years they'd been together, and to see me with my husband gave her hope.  When Brian finished paying for my items, he asked the lady if he could pray with her, and she said yes.  Brian prayed that God would open her eyes and let her see her worth, and he asked God to deliver her from the situation she was in. The lady started crying and thanked Brian for praying for her.  Once again my eyes were open to how blessed I truly was to have such a caring husband as the one I had. She was rightmany men don't shop with their wives or girlfriends, but I had one who didn't mind, and I was acting just like he said, like a little schoolgirl. I had a lot of growing to do, as I could see I was still a very selfish person.  Thank you, Lord, I whispered to myself. I could have been in the shoes that lady was in, but you didn't allow it to be.  We walked through the mall a while longer; Brian bought himself a couple pairs of shoes, and we left.   "I had another eye-opener," I said to Brian.  "About what?""That lady. I know God put her in my path so I could see how blessed I am to have you in my life," I said.  "He could have," Brian said.  "I could be just like that lady, instead of having a husband like you I could have a snaa man like Eric," I said.   "Eric's not a bad person," Brian said.  "He's just not ready to settle down.  When a man is ready to settle down, he will do it with the woman he believes is right for him. Most men aren't blessed to find Ms. Right on the first go-round, which is why dating is sometimes difficult. It takes getting to know a person's heart to know if they are the right one. Most men and women get to know body parts before they get to know the heart, and that's backwards, but I was guilty, too.  Thank God He opened my eyes so I could see there is more than putting notches in my belt when it comes to women. Until God opens Eric's eyes, he will continue on the road of destruction he's on. I pray destruction doesn't find him and he finds God before it's too late." "What do you mean by that?" I asked Brian.  "HIV/AIDS," he said. "All these diseases in society and people still have unprotected sex. It takes a mind change for men and women to stop going outside of God's will. Until a person's mind changes, they will continue doing what they think is right." "I know what you're saying, and I'm glad God didn't allow me to get caught up like that." I said.  "Me too," Brian said. "We both could have been caught up like that while we were in our sins, but thanks be to God, He had other plans for our lives."  Such a heavy conversation we had driving back to the hotel.  Later that night we got dressed and went to Kemoll's Italian Restaurant, which overlooked the Gateway Arch, and just as the hotel clerk said, it was a beautiful scene in spite of the nippy night air. I felt good in my maternity clothes, and I felt even better knowing my husband cared enough for me to notice my clothes had been getting tight. We didn't have to wait long for a table in a corner next to the window.  The ambience of the room was elegant.  The soft, instrumental classical, music was making me warm inside.  My mind tried to drift back to the night Eric took me to the jazz club in Chicago, but I kept refocusing and rebuking that thought. When we got to the table, Brian pulled my chair out like the gentlemen he is. I sat down, and he reached over, grabbed my left hand and kissed my wedding ring.  "Until death do us part," he said, as he lovingly stared into my eyes.  "I love the way you love me," I said. When the server came over, we didn't notice as we had turned our seats in the direction of the window so we could look at the night sky and stare into our future.  We decided upon hors d'oeuvres and asked the server to come back to take our order.  "Thanks for thinking of me," I said.  "I'm always thinking of you," Brian said. He got up and walked over to me, held his hand out and we stood there and danced lip to lip.  He whispered in my ear, "This is how a real man loves a woman. When you make love to a soul and not a body, something powerful, fulfilling and wonderful happens." He kept talking and before we knew it, the server was coming back with our hors d'oeuvres.  Neither of us wanted to sit, but we did.  We rushed through our hors d'oeuvres and went back to the hotel room. Brian had undressed me at the restaurant with his words.  The insecurities I was having about my weight gain had gone away from the words he spoke to me at the restaurant.  He had praised my body from the top of my head to my feet.  He made me feel confident in the skin I was in.  Not only was I confident in myself, but I was confident that he truly loved me.  He knew I was a crock-pot that needed warming up, while he was a microwave, ready at all times.  He attended to my needs.  God is amazing. What took alcohol with Eric, Brian was able to do with words. Why? Because he loved my soulnot just my physical body, but all of me, and I loved him back. When we got back to the room, Brian started undressing me. As he kept talking, I kept melting. "We have no distractions, no interruptions, and nothing to do tomorrow but wake up," Brian said. "I'm not in a rush and neither should you be. I'm giving you a repeat of what happened the night we created our love child. The struggle is over." I thought about what he said, the struggle is over. Did he know, had God shown him my internal struggle to love him like a wife should?  Could he know I was still having dreams of Eric even though I repented to God? Had God shown him I needed reassurance of his love for me? As my husband made passionate love to me, my mind traveled back in time to where I recall our child was conceived. It was the nightyes, it came back to meI was confident Brian was the father of our child, as I recalled the night our souls were entwined by destiny.  When we woke up Sunday morning it was almost noon. Neither of us wanted to get dressed, so we ordered room service and ate in the bed.  As the day progressed, we did absolutely nothing but enjoy each other.  Sunday night we packed so we could leave for home early in the morning. The rest of the night we sat around, talked and watched TV.  Monday morning we got up, had breakfast and headed back home. We took our time as we had nothing planned but studying our homework for Wednesday's counseling session. On the way home I apologized to Brian for not sharing my news about quitting my job. I told him I wanted to be with him on all his evangelist trips, and I didn't think I should make work a priority.  My husband and my child were going to be my priority; work would always be there.  We laughed and talked so much on the way home, it seemed like we got home in a flash. We pulled up in the garage, and I carried in my shopping bags while Brian brought in our suitcase.  When we got into the house, I went and put my new things up while Brian went and got the mail.  He came back in and had a huge smile on his face.  "What are you so happy about?" I asked.  "I got my contract from the church in Florida, and it's even better than they said." "That's great, love," I said.  "They want me to be there the New Year's Eve, a few days earlier than we discussed.  Let me call Pastor Raymond and make sure it's ok with him before I call them and say yes." And just like that I was back to reality. Our weekend rendezvous had come to an end.  While Brian was on the phone talking with Pastor Raymond, I started fixing dinner and pulled out my notepad where I wrote all the questions I asked Pastor Raymond about my soul tie.  I had all of them checked off but the one about why, even when the relationship was over, I couldn't stop thinking about Eric. I circled that one on my notepad to make sure the pastor addressed it. When Brian finished speaking with Pastor Raymond, we ate dinner and went back to our homework for our upcoming counseling session Wednesday.  We turned to First Corinthians 7:1-5 and started reading at verse three: "Let the husband render unto the wife due benevolence: and likewise also the wife unto the husband. The wife hath not power of her own body, but the husband: and likewise also the husband hath not power of his own body, but the wife.  Defraud ye not one the other, except it be with consent for a time, that ye may give yourselves to fasting and prayer; and come together again, that Satan tempt you not for your incontinency." Brian started dissecting the Word to me from his perspective on these verses, and then I shared my perspective. We agreed that anytime a husband or wife withholds intimacy from the other without the other's consent, Satan wins, and anytime Satan wins in a marriage, it is not a good thing.  "You will never have to worry about that with me," Brian said. "Unless I'm sick in the hospital, I'm always ready and willing," he said as he laughed.  Just like the microwave, I thought and starting laughing to myself.  "I don't believe I'll ever have that concern with you," I said.  "Which reminds me, I need to ask the doctor about when we need to cool it down during my pregnancy," I said. "I'll help you to remember," Brian said.  As the night drifted away we discussed the questions I had in my notepad that I wanted to make sure were answered.  We talked about the procedure I was having tomorrow, and Brian asked me if I was nervous. I told him no. I didn't feel no ways tired; God had brought me too far to leave me, I said.  "By the way, why hadn't I ever heard that story of you and the three men?" I asked.  "Because while we were dating, I wanted to get to know all about you, and that story never came up. You've got to remember, I was single a long time before you came along. As the Spirit leads me to share in my messages, I'm sure there will be many stories, because BC (before Christ), I did as all sinners dowallowed in my pig-pen of slop until I learned better," he said.  As always at bedtime, we held hands and prayed together.  Brian offered prayer for my procedure the next day; he asked God to cover me and our unborn child with his blood, and we turned out the lights. 







WHEN DEATH COMESDecember 17, 1991: the day I died. My eyes were fully awake, but my heart was at stake. It was no longer tossed between two men, because I had chosen to give innot to the temptation anymore, but to Christ, who closed the door.  Yes, that was the day I died, the day I said goodbye to the world of sin and all its thrills, no longer its debt would I fulfill. My mind was made up, I decided to let go of a world I used to know. A world that had me hooked and baited; like a fish out of water I regurgitated.  Death had come to me and set me free.  It was Tuesday, December 17, 1991, the day I died.  When I woke that morning it was business as usual. Brian had gotten up and eaten breakfast because I was only able to eat a piece of toast and drink a cup of water so I wouldn't get sick during the procedure. We drove to the hospital, and I checked in at the outpatient desk.  A nurse's aide came and wheeled me to the room where they would do the CVS procedure. She handed me a little blue robe before she left the room and told me to slip into it; she said a nurse would be around momentarily. Brian started helping me get undressed, as he looked at me like I was a sick and helpless little old lady.  He took my clothes and placed them neatly in the cabinet next to the bathroom.  I sat in the chair and he stood as we waited for the nurse to come.  After about fifteen minutes, the nurse came and took my blood pressure, checked my temperature, weighed me, and of course had me give a urine sample, which was no problem because I was more than prepared. Before she walked out of the room, she asked if we had any questions she could answer, and Brian and I both said no. She then said the doctor would be in soon.  We waited what seemed days, but in reality it was only another fifteen minutes before Doctor Prather came in the room.  "Good morning, Mr. and Mrs. Hodges. How are you both doing today?" she asked.  "Well," we answered in unison.  She came over and rubbed my belly and started telling us what she was getting ready to do.  She raised the bed I was sitting on to an almost upright position, at which time the nurse walked back in to assist her.  I was listening to every word she said. She rubbed some cream over my belly and she said, "You will feel the pinch of the needlejust relax and don't jerk." As she inserted what looked like a twelve foot needle into my abdomen, I started squeezing my husband's hand.  It was at that very moment that I died as I thought about what my Savior did for me as He hung on the cross for my soul when it was lost. Blood-stained tears ran down His face, but He kept his place for me. That day I died from the pain I held inside. All those years I held onto my past, but I was free at last. I died to the sin I held deep within. As a tear dropped from my eyes, my husband said, "You will be all right," the confirmation while I sat on that table. I died to those scarlet letters Satan tried to bury me with. I no longer wore the W for whore; I ripped off the F for fornicator, and I tore off the A for adulterer. I replaced them with my favorite new letter, J, for Jesus, J for Justified by Christ. Yes, it was this day that I died to the sin and shame that once carried my name. I was no longer the woman Satan tried to make out of me, because my Savior had set me free. I was rejoicing in my soul. Nobody knew but meI was finally free.  I heard Doctor Prather when she said, "It's over." What a revelation and yes it was over! I heard her say they would mail the results to the house in three to five days, and she walked out the room. The nurse handed Brian my follow-up orders and told me to wait there for thirty minutes, and she'd be back to check my vital signs.  My husband asked me how I was feeling. I couldn't tell him better than I'd ever felt in my life, so I told him I would be ok.  My soul was  rejoicing because my inner man was finally at peace. Thank you, God! I thought I said in my head, but I heard my husband say, "Thank you God for bringing my wife and child out all right." The nurse came back in and checked my vital signs and said, "You're free to go." She had no idea how free I was. I slowly got up from the table I had been sitting on. My spirit wanted to run around the hospital, but my body would not cooperate.  I put my clothes on, and my husband, our child and I wheeled out of the room.  Satan, you should have killed me while you had a chance. I'm not going back; I'm not looking back, not even for a glance.  When we got outside my husband went and got the car, came around and helped me get in.  He held my hand all the way home. When we got in the house he fixed me something to eat, and I drifted off to sleep.  When I woke up, it was after one, and Brian was sitting at the table studying.  For the first time in our marriage I had taken on my new identity, not as a Christian, but as his wife. I was no longer selfish Teresa who wanted everything her way, but I was Mrs. Teresa Hodges, a team player on the Hodges team. My eyes had been opened to the beauty of the love my husband had for me. I walked over to him, stood behind him and gave him a big hug.  "All right, girl, don't be trying to start nothing; the doctor said we needed to wait three days for that," my husband said.  Always a man, I thought to myself.  "I love you, Mr. Brian Hodges," I said.  "I love you, too," he said.  I spent most of Tuesday lounging in the bed going over notes in my notepad for tomorrow's counseling session. The day slowly drifted into night, and for the first time in my married life I slept in peace. When I woke up Wednesday morning, I got up and started fixing my husband breakfast.  I wanted to make sure we had a full meal, because we were meeting Pastor and Lady Raymond at eleven. When I finished cooking, my husband was walking into the kitchen.  "Good morning, love, I hope you're ready to eat?" I asked.  "I sure am," he said.  "I had a powerful dream about you last night, and it was anointed." "You did? You've got to share it with me," I said.  "No, this is for the revival Thursday, and I can't share it with you until then." "Well why did you tell me and get my hopes up?"  I asked.  "I couldn't hold it in. I had to tell somebody what the Lord showed me." "Actually, you didn't tell me anything." I said.  "You're right, dear," he said as he kissed me good morning.When we'd finished eating, we sat down a few minutes before it was time to head to the church. I had my notepad with the question that Pastor Raymond had still not addressed, and my husband had his notepad in his hand. We walked out the door hand-in-hand like newlyweds do.  When we arrived at the church, I didn't feel sick and I didn't get sick. I walked in differently.  This time, I walked in like a woman who was sure of herself.  I walked in like a woman who was no longer in charge of her life, because God was now at the head.  I walked in like a woman who was in it to win it.  I walked in with the man God had given me to bless me and not stress me.  We walked in together as man and wife.  Just as weeks prior, when we walked into Pastor Raymond's office, he led us in prayer followed by a scripture. Lady Raymond was present, and he said he would let her share something with us towards the end of our session. As usual, he asked had we done our homework?"Yes Pastor, we've done our homework," my husband said.  "I'll start with you Elder Hodges. What did you learn from the scriptures I gave you to study?" "Pastor Raymond, I learned from First Corinthians 7:1-5 that as a man I should have my own wife and not withhold intimacy from her for any reason other than health reasons. My body does not belong to me, it belongs to her, and if we go without being physically intimate, it should be for fasting and praying, and we should agree as a couple so Satan won't tempt me." "What did you take from the scripture study, Sis Hodges?" Pastor Raymond asked.  "I learned that as a wife I should not withhold physical intimacy from my husband unless, as he said, we agree because of fasting and praying. I learned that I should not withhold physical intimacy from my husband as a form of punishment or when I'm upset with him, and if we go long periods without having intercourse, we open the door for Satan to tempt us in that area."  "Those are some great thoughts," Pastor Raymond said. "Let me piggy-back off both your thoughts. For men, these scriptures are a delight, because we immediately read them and think unlimited intercourse with our spouseshe is to drop it like it's hot at our command, tell the truth and shame the devil," he said, "but, Paul, the writer, starts with the man because we are responsible for the sexual relationship in our marriage, because we are the spiritual leaders in the home. Paul says we are to 'fulfill' our wivesthat does not only mean sexually, it means learning what she needs, when she needs it, and even how she needs it. As newlyweds, most couples don't know how to do that, which is why communication is key to a marriage.  It is our duty as the spiritual leader in the home to initiate communication in this area with our wives.  As men and women of God, we just don't have sex, we 'minister' to one another, and the only way you can minister to her is to ask her what she likes and what she doesn't like.  When we minister to each other, we are serving each other the way God intended us to.  We must remember sex was created by God. Just because Satan perverted it doesn't make it bad.  We are to bring glory to God in all we do as his children.  Another reason Paul started with the husband is because most of us think it is only the sexual needs of our wives we must attend to.  But as the spiritual leader of the home, we must also attend to her emotional, mental and spiritual needs as well.  Anytime a man puts his wife's needs before his own, she is like hot butter in his hands, and his needs can't help but be met," Pastor Raymond said. "I want Lady Raymond to step in and speak to Sis Hodges right now."Lady Hodges said, "As women, we have been commanded also to fulfill the needs of our husbands. Whatever he wants that is not immoral or illegal, give it to him. Honey, your marriage bed should be so hot that your husband would not think twice about looking somewhere else for satisfaction because you've got it on lock-down at your house," she said with a straight face. "There is absolutely nothing dirty about having sex with your husband. If the world can have great sex, why can't God's children?  The best sex should be between married couples who love Christ.  Even after more than twenty years of marriage, the bridge is never up, the gate is never closed, and the welcome mat is always laid at my house.  Do you understand what I'm saying, young woman?" she asked me.  "Yes ma'am," I said.  "Pastor Raymond asked me to answer a question for you from a nurse's perspective about why, even when you have not been with your ex, that you keep thinking about him in a sexual way," she continued. "Our brain produces a chemical known as dopamine; it is what we call the 'feel good' chemical. When our brain is presented with an unexpected reward, dopamine increases, prompting our limbic reward system to take note and remember how to repeat such positive experience. When we enjoy a sexual encounter with our spouse, the dopamine increases because it relates the pleasure with the person we are having it with. On the other hand, when something negative happens to us, dopamine decreases as a signal to avoid repeating that action.  The reason some people have a difficult time getting their ex out of their mind is because their brain associated that person with pleasure. Add to it, Satan wants to steal, kill and destroy us, so he keeps replaying those images in our mind like a broken record-player.  The same chemical our brain releases that gets us hooked on the taste of donuts, coffee, or anything we enjoy is the same chemical it releases to get us hooked on the pleasures that sex brings. As a nurse, I work with abused women all day, and I've talked with women who went back to boyfriends who beat them to a pulp but they went back to him. The only way a woman can break free of an ungodly soul tie is to make her spiritual tie with God be first and foremost in her life, or she will continue to repeat history.  Remember, Paul tells us in the book of Romans, 'So I am not the one doing wrong; it is sin living in me that does it, for I know that good itself does not dwell in me that is in my sinful nature. For I have the desire to do what is good, but I cannot carry it out.' Having Christ in our lives is the only way we can do what God expects of us." Lady Raymond handed me a study guide titled, FREEDOM: 7 Steps to Breaking Free of a Soul Tie. "I suggest you study this guide and call me if you need me to help you with anything; I'm just a phone call away." Pastor Raymond said, "I'll close with this. The RMS Titanic was a great ship, but it sank despite how well designed the engineer thought it was.  Your relationship is like the Titanic, and you are the engineer of the ship.  No matter how great you think your relationship is, if God is not the Captain on the ship, then your relationship will sink just like the Titanic. Son, daughter, take direction from Godhe will never steer you wrong." Pastor and Lady Raymond closed out our last counseling session in earnest and fervent prayer over our new spiritual assignment, and we said goodbye for now.As I walked out of the office in tears, I had no idea marriage was so intense with God.  I knew it was ordained by Him, but I had no idea I was supposed to bring glory to God in my relationship with my husband. I believed just as Lady Raymond said, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.  This marriage will last, and it will be an example to others to bring glory to God.After leaving our counseling session, we talked all the way home.  Neither of us had any idea we had been there almost three hours. We decided to get some food and take it home so we could go and pack for Brian's revival the next day.  When we got into the house, we went right to the dining room table and started eating. I was extremely hungry from our counseling session, and it appeared my husband was, as well. When we finished eating, we cleaned up the kitchen and started packing our bags for the revival my husband would be running, in the church I grew up in.When we finished packing, I mentioned the study guide Lady Raymond had given me and asked my husband if he would study it with me after the holidays, and he agreed.Wednesday was a beautiful day, the first day of my new life.   







MY NEW LIFEThursday morning I woke up with a new-found joy for life.  I was happy God delivered me from the road of destruction I was on.  I was happy to have Pastor Raymond, Lady Raymond and Pastor and Sister Jeffries in our lives, couples who had stood the tests of time.  I was, for the first time in my life experiencing the joy of knowing Jesus. I could remember hearing my grandmother say joy comes only from knowing Jesus, because happiness was based on our feelings at that particular time.  Thank you, God, for the change you have brought about in my life.  I will no longer allow Satan to use me like a sock puppet.My husband and I were fixing breakfast together, as the drive home was only a little over two hours long, so we had not planned to leave until noon.  We sat down as usual for breakfast and began our morning talk.  "You look different," he said. "There is a glow around you." "You're so sweet," I said as I kissed him.  "No, I'm seriousthere's a special glow about you this morning." "It must be the glow of the Holy Ghost," I said.  "That might just be it." We laughed and talked an hour before either of us decided to go and get dressed. We left the house a little after twelve and started on our way. I was still somewhat tired from the Tuesday's event, so I put in Whitney Houston. As I always did, I reached over, grabbed his hand and started serenading him with "I Wanna Dance With Somebody"."I wanna dance with somebody, I wanna feel the heat with somebody, with somebody who loves me," I kept singing, and finally I drifted off to sleep, which I'm sure my husband was glad of.By the time I woke up, my husband was shaking me to get up; we had made it to the hotel, and he had taken in our luggage.  He came back to get me, as snow was on the ground and he didn't want me to fall. As usual, he left me at the hotel while he went to the church to pray. I called my mother to let her know we were in town.  I didn't want her to see me before service, because I didn't want her to probe me about my weight gainas little as it was, I was sure she would notice. After talking with my mother I called my sister and a few friends from high school to let them know I was in town and to come out to service tonight. Time passed much quicker than usual; it was 7:15 before I knew it, and my husband was coming through the door.  "Are you ready, Teresa?" he asked. "I'm all ready, dear," I said.  We walked out the door and headed to church.  We had come full circle. It was exactly one year ago when we met at the church I grew up in. It was his message of hope that pricked my heart and drew me to Christ. He was the man God ordained for my life even when I wasn't right. God had a plan for me, one I couldn't see.When we walked into church, I went and sat on the seat next to Sister Jeffries, and my husband went to the pastor's study.  Even though it was a cold winter night, people still flooded the church.  Just as I was in great expectation the second night I met my husband, my expectation of what God was going to do in tonight's service was even greater, because my husband said he'd dreamed of me. He said he was sharing the message during the revival, but he wouldn't tell me exactly what.  My mother walked into the service, and I hurriedly went and gave her a hug before service started, and I went and sat back on the seat next to Sister Jeffries because I didn't want her to ask me any questions.  The associate minister opened the service with prayer, followed by the scripture reading, and then the choir started singing.  Both of the songs they sang were heart-stirring and ministered to my soul, but that night the choir didn't sing to me.  I believe God wanted my ears to be fully tuned to what he had given my husband for the body of Christ.  When the choir finished singing, Pastor Jeffries stood up at the podium and introduced my husband. My husband started singing a solo, "I have tried to make it on my own, but these burdens in my life they got a little too strong. Right now I can say, without Christ in my life, there is no way I can live without you."As my husband repeated the verse, the choir stood up and started singing. When he got to the chorus"There is no way I can live without you, there is no way I can go on, burdens are too much for me to bear, there is no way I can live without you"my husband stopped singing, and he began sharing the dream God gave him that week. SAFE IN HIS ARMS"The other night I had a dream about my wife Teresa, the woman I met here exactly one year ago.  When I stood up to preach last year, I looked out over the crowd and she caught my eye. After service that night I knew I had to meet her. I got a chance to speak to her, and her voice was like music to my ears.  That night when I went to the hotel room, I prayed and asked God, was she the one?  And in my heart I believe he said yes. The next day we went to breakfast, and when I dropped her off at home, I asked her for her phone number.  Just about every day since I laid eyes on her, we talked, and even when we didn't talk, she was in my thoughts and prayers.  Tonight, I want to encourage somebody that might be going through a rough time to let you know there is promise in your pain.  The other night, I had a dream about this woman that I cherish and love to life.  In my dream she was dangling from a cliff about 10,000 feet from the ground by a very thin piece of rope.  I ran to see what was at the bottom of the cliff, and there was nothing but rocks.  In the dream I looked to see what the rope was fastened to, and I saw a small tree, bent over, and the roots were coming out of the ground. This tree was about to give in and break and cause my wife to fall to her death, but I ran and held onto the tree, because the rope was too thin for me.  I tried to put the baby tree back in the ground to stabilize its roots, but it wasn't workingmy hands starting slipping from the bark of the tree, and the rope started unraveling from the weight and the pressure that was on it.  I didn't know what to do, and so I started crying out to God because I didn't want my wife to die.  I called out, God, what should I do?"'Hold on,' I heard the Father say.  'I can't hold on,' I said to the Father, 'the rope is too thin and the tree is too heavy,' I said. I heard the Father say, 'Let go of the tree and hold on to me; pick up the rope because I am your hope.' So I grabbed hold of the thin rope that was already wearing out.  'Now what should I do?' I called out to the Father, and I heard Him say, 'Every time you call, I will answer.' My heart was pounding as I thought about my beloved wife hanging to her death and the only thing that separated her from me was a thin rope, but I still had hope.  So I started calling out to God, 'Father, help me!' The first time I called him I noticed the rope got thicker. I called him again, and I noticed this time I got a little more strength.  I called him again, and the rope stopped unwinding.  I called him again and the rope got shorter.  Every time I called on God I gained strength and the rope became easier and easier to pull.  I forgot about how bad my hands were burning from the sting of the rope, and I kept pulling and pulling my wife to safety.  Every time I called God he came to my rescue, and with tears in my eyes and blood-stained hands, I had pulled my wife to safety. She was out of danger and safe in my arms. I want to encourage your heart tonight to let you know, no matter what you may be going through, when you grab a hold to God's word, He will always pull you to safety.  Satan wants us to think God will leave us hanging to die, but God told us in Psalm 91:15, 'He will call on me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble, I will deliver him and honor him.' We serve a God that cares about us and he wants us to be safe in His arms. My wife is my most precious gift, and she means the world to me. God showed me in this dream that when I call Him, He will come to my rescue, and just like He came to my rescue, He will come to yours. Saints of the most high, there is no way I can live without God. I tried over and over, but there is no way I can live without Him." When my husband finished his message, the altar was full.  My heart was full because of the vision God gave my husband concerning our marriage. God showed me that night, Brian was in the plan He had for my life. It was because of him my heart fully trusted in God and just like he pulled me to safety in the dream, he pulled me to safety in life. I was sinking deeper and deeper in the plot Satan had prepared for me, but God said, not so, I have need of her.  I loved how God loved meeven in the midst of my sin, He still loved me.  How could I not love Him back? The choir continued singing, "There is no way I can live without you," as souls were being healed, delivered and set free on the altar. My spirit was rejoicing because last year this time I was living in a pit of sin, and I had no peace within, but God knew exactly what to do; he came and he rescued me and now I'm safe in his arms.Both nights of the revival were filled with the presence of God, and souls were saved, delivered, and set free by the power of God's love.  I saw God use my husband that weekend on a deeper level.  I was no longer looking out of sin-stained glasses; I was looking out of love-stained glasses. Love from my heavenly Father who had forgiven me for all my sins, and love from my husband who truly loved me from within.  Saturday morning we went to the Jeffries' home to say goodbye, because in less than seven days we would be headed to Florida to start our new life. They prayed God's continued blessings over our lives and told us to keep God first, and we would never be last.  We headed back home to Chicago, and my heart was filled with love, joy and peace, not because Christmas was next week, but because my eyes were opened.  I could see how Satan tried to kill me with a broken relationship.  I could see how Satan tried to make me bitter about my past.  I could see how Satan tried to make me hold that bitterness inside so I could die from my pride.  I could see everything he tried to do, but God wouldn't let it prosper.  I was free from the chains that once held me.  I grabbed my husband's hand and squeezed it real tight.  "I love you too," he said.  It was strange, but somehow I could feel the burn marks from the rope he pulled in his dream, pulling me to safety.  I could feel it because my soul was now tied to his.  When we arrived home Saturday afternoon my husband asked me to check the mail while he carried our luggage into the house. As I was walking to the mailbox, who did I see but Eric.  I thought about going back into the garage until he left, but I didn't.  I walked over to the mailbox and got our mail.  "Hello, Teresa," he said.  "Hello, Eric," I said.  "I haven't seen you since...since your husband beat me up," he said.  "I'm sorry about that," I said. "It was a misunderstanding."  "I know. Brian came and apologized for both of you."  Hmmm, I thought to myself, my husband never told me he apologized for me, too. He said he'd apologized, but I thought it was just for him.  "You look different," Eric said. "I see a glow on your face.""I feel different. I am different," I said. "Having someone who loves me for who I am is an incredible feeling. He loves me and I love him." "Maybe one day, I'll have that," Eric said.  "Maybe," I said, "but it won't be with me," and I walked off.When I got back up to the apartment I told my husband I ran into his frat brother, Eric, and that was the end of that conversation. When I started sorting through the mail, one envelope caught my attention. I told my husband we had a letter from Doctor Prather's office. I asked him if he wanted to open it; he said no.  I tore it open like a child unwrapping a Christmas gift.  I started reading the letter and before I knew it, I had fallen to the floor in tears. My husband came and picked me up and carried me to the couch; I was still holding on to the letter. I handed it to him, and he ripped it up. "Why did you do that?" I asked.  "I went through all that for you. I already know I'm the father of our child; God already told me. In the dream the other night, when I pulled you to safety, I pulled you out of fear and doubt. Faith cannot operate where fear lives. My faith is in God first and you second. In the dream the tiny tree represented our marriage, and the roots represented our foundation.  Our foundation was not yet strong enough to take us through what we were going through, which is why I had to take hold of the rope instead. God is the rope that will hold this marriage together. As long as we stay connected to Him, we will make it.  I couldn't share it with you until you had this paper in your hands.  I know it reads a 99.9% positive match.  I love you, and God loves you.  I prove my love to you daily, and so does God.  Now it's your turn to love me and Him back."God kept blowing my mind, and I couldn't believe all that He did for me. Thank you, God, I said as I continued to cry, as the last weight I had been carrying dropped from my shoulders and broke like a piece of fine china. In one year, God had proven his love to me in ways I had never imagined. I had a new life in Christ. A new life was growing inside me, and we were about to start our new life in ministry in a new state. I was no longer Teresa Gray, I was Mrs. Teresa Hodges. I was no longer the selfish little girl my husband met one year ago. I was a changed woman, from the inside out. When death came to me, healing, deliverance, and forgiveness came, too.  I died on the inside, but it was showing on the outside.  I was no longer the same, because God had changed my name.  Just like a man, my husband grabbed my hand and led me into the bedroom. "I gave you more than three days," he said. "It's time for us to strengthen our soul tie and fulfill each other's needs." And that we did.   







When Death Comes - The Poem There are so many ways a person can dieBut none like the silent criesFrom a victim of molestation, rape, or abuseA feeling of torment haunts you How can I hide these feelings inside?Sexually abused, left confused,Wondering what did I do? Robbed of my innocenceLearned to live in defenseA false pretenseBecame my world as a little girl A feeling of shameAttached to my nameLooked upon with hate and disdain I felt people staring at meNot with sympathy but empathyMy misery, a new realityI didn't cause this "it" happened to me My power was takenMy earth shakenBut I continued onLike wipers in a heavy rain storm Insufficient, not good enoughIncapable of taking any rough stuff I would break downAt the soundOf things that reminded meOf my misery, my new reality I got married and couldn't take itBecause of the nightmare that plagued meTried to make loveBut the force felt like a shoveInstead of the nice long glove it was This thing that happened to meRepeating, like a hurricane defeatingEverything in my pathMy relationships didn't last One day I gained strengthOver the pain that was so intenseI started letting goLetting people knowAbout my misery, my realityThis thing that kept me in bondage I let go and death cameto my painI resurrected my good nametook back everything that was stolen from meIncluding my dignityMy new reality, I'm free! 

















NOTESAmericanPregnancy.org FREEDOM, 7 Steps to Breaking Free of a Soul Tie Norment, Lynn, "How Do You know When You Have Found Mr. or Ms. Right?" Ebony, Johnson Publishing Company, Inc. 1991. HighBeam Research.  WebMD 







All Scripture quotations, unless otherwise indicated, are taken from the Holy Bible, New International VersionAll rights reserved worldwide.No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing from the Author.   Making copies of this book or any portion of it, for any purpose other than your own, is a violation of United States copyright laws.When Death ComesCopyright  2015 by Patricia Shaw ISBN-10: 1518721729 Cover design: CreativeLogCover Photograph:  Jason McCoy Photography, Chicago, ILEditor: StylusInk








 ABOUT THE AUTHOR  Patricia Shaw is the Pastor's wife of New Hope Church of God In Christ, where her husband, Elder Michael Shaw serves as Pastor. She is the Founder and President of Women of Excellence Outreach Ministry, a ministry focused on healing hurting women, from the inside out, through the power of God's love.  She is a Certified Professional Life Coach who empowers women to break free of what society terms toxic relationships and move forward in faith to receive the love they desire and deserve.Women of Excellence Outreach Ministry is committed to the growth and empowerment of women of all ages providing training, and teaching on transformation techniques to shift mindsets to thinking positively. She teaches women of all ages to Conquer their fears, Accomplish their goals, and Possess their land. C.A.P. Her transformation strategies stirs the soul and equips the mind.For  more  information  about  Women  of  Excellence,  please  visit  our website womenofexcellence.biz or write:Women of Excellence Outreach MinistryPO Box 1501Statesboro GA 30459 Follow us on Facebook at: WofEXCELLenceTwitter at: @SoulTiesCoach Instagram: @SoulTiesCoachSign up here womenofexcellence.biz for our pre-launch specials and notifications of our upcoming books: FREEDOM, 7 Steps to Break Free of a Soul Tie is available on our website. 















