














WOODWORKING
BEGINNERS GUIDE TO BUILD
18 HOUSEHOLD PROJECTS
2 BOOKS IN 1
ALESSANDRO PECORARO







Copyright
All rights reserved.
No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic, print or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without permission in writing from the publisher.
Copyright © 2020 Alessandro Pecoraro







Disclaimer
Purchasing this book can be seen as consent to the fact that both the publisher and the author of this book are in no way experts on the topics discussed within. This book is produced with the goal of providing information that is as accurate and reliable as possible. Under no circumstances will any legal responsibility or blame be held against the publisher for any reparation, damages, or monetary loss due to the information herein, either directly or indirectly. This declaration is deemed fair and valid by both the American Bar Association and the Committee of Publishers Association and is legally binding throughout the United States. There are no scenarios in which the publisher or the original author of this work can be in any fashion deemed liable for any hardship or damages that may befall the reader or anyone else after undertaking information described herein. The information in the following pages is intended only for informational purposes. As befitting its nature, it is presented without assurance regarding its prolonged validity or interim quality. Trademarks that are mentioned are done without written consent and can in no way be considered an endorsement from the trademark holder.







Table of Contents - Book 1

Introduction


Chapter 1 How to Build a Hall Table


Chapter 2 How to build a Trestle Table


Chapter 3 How to build a dining table


Chapter 4 How to build a pivot leaf table


Chapter 5 How to build a tabletop


Chapter 6 How to customise tabletop edges


Chapter 7 How to build a curved front desk


Chapter 8 How to make strong cabinet backs


Chapter 9 How to build bookselfves

Table of Contents - Book 2

Chapter 1 How to build a book rack


Chapter 2 How to build a Wall Cabinet


Chapter 3 How to build a Vanity Cabinet


Chapter 4 How to build a traditional Hutch


Chapter 5 How to build cabinet doors


Chapter 6 How to make frame and panel doors


Chapter 7 How to make bracket feets


Chapter 8 How to build drawers


Chapter 9 How to build drawer pulls


Glossary


Conclusion


About Alessandro Pecoraro








Introduction
Like any craft, woodworking has specialized terms for its equipment and practices. It is full of everyday words that live different lives in the woodshop from frogs and fences to stretchers and aprons. A comprehensive glossary could fill a book, yet this short one will get you started. Because the furniture itself is the heart of furniture making, we will begin with a few furniture parts. Once you begin researching ventures you'd like to tackle, or you find yourself describing what you want to build, this guide will help. Knowing the language of woodworking won't make you a woodworker, yet it can help you learn the craft, share your ideas, and express yourself. It likewise connects you to the history and tradition of the craft. In book 1, first you will learn how to build a Hall Table, a Trestle Table, a dining table and a pivot leaf table. Moving on, you will learn how to build a tabletop, how to customise tabletop edges, how to build a curved front desk, how to make strong cabinet backs and how to build bookshelves. Book 2 begins by teaching you how to build a book rack, a Wall Cabinet, a Vanity Cabinet and a traditional Hutch. Moving on, you will learn how to build cabinet doors, how to make frame and panel doors and how to make bracket feets. Lastly, you will learn how to build drawers and drawer pulls.             







Book 1
How to Build Tables and Desks
Alessandro Pecoraro







Chapter 1 How to Build a Hall Table
I intended to make a table once I was a student and many of my classmates were designing furniture with legs that tapered from thick at the bottom to thin at the top to echo the flower's shape. I gave each leg a pronounced taper, topped with a gentle curve, on both outside faces. I cut away the table's top at each corner to put these graceful shapes on full display, and I fashioned the apron faces to harmonize with the profile of the legs. I constructed the table from shedua, with maple for the drawer sides and bottom. The piece is a treat to build. The design is not as complex as a carcase piece yet goes beyond a straightforward table with drawer, adding a few wrinkles that will help you grow as a woodworker. There's a variety of joinery, from traditional mortiseand-tenon joints to dovetails to dowels, and real pleasure in shaping the legs and aprons. For this, I blend machine work and hand equipment.







Begin with the joinery


Cut all of the joinery while the stock is still square, yet first take a few moments to make a template for your leg shape, and utalize it and a bevel gauge to mark the legs and aprons for the curves and tapers you'll cut later.


To join the narrow legs and aprons, I interlocked the mortiseand-tenon joints.


I routed the mortises and cut the tenons at the tablesaw.


Once cutting the tenons, test each setup on sample material until the machines and jigs are dialed in. utalize a marking gauge to lay out the shoulders and cheeks on each piece.


Clamp a stop to a crosscut sled for cutting the shoulders.


Cut all the wide exteriors first, and then adjust the blade to the appropriate height for cutting the shoulders on the apron edges.


Prior to making this cut, put a piece of blue tape on the stop to offset the shoulder rather.


This leaves a small strip of extra material on the shoulder that can simply be pared flush.


I used a tenoning jig to cut the cheeks, then a bandsaw to eliminate the remaining waste at the ends and in the the tenons.


Clean up and fit the joints with chisels and files.


I round my tenons instead of chopping the mortises square.


Once all the joinery is cut, saw the drawer front from the front apron.


Then, dry-fit the end assemblies and measure the inside distance in the the front and rear aprons to determine the length of the interior rails.


For greatest accuracy, take this measurement as close to the legs as possible.









How to create a drawer pocket


The drawer enclosure is formed by a pair of interior rails, each rather narrower than the aprons that run front to back and guide the drawer sides.


Each rail is joined by dowels to the front and rear aprons and rabbeted along the bottom to accommodate a framed panel.


This panel closes the compartment, adds rigidity, and supports the drawer from underneath.


For smooth drawer movement, the interior rails must be parallel to one another, with dowel joints that are specifically aligned, front to back.


To precisely lay out the joints on the face of the rear apron, I used the front aprons as a reference.


A jig aids doweling, I drilled my dowel holes utalizing a shopmade jig created especially for this venture.


To drill a front apron, set the jig in place so its reference face is flush with the apron's interior edge.


Clamp the jig temporarily while you fasten it with a couple of brads.


At the drill press, take a moment to set the bit depth, utalizing the layout for your shaping as a guide.


Drill through your layout marks, simultaneously completing the jig and drilling your first set of dowel holes.


After drilling the apron, cautiously align the jig on the end of the corresponding rail and drill the mating holes.


Repeat the procedure on all the aprons and corresponding rail ends.


Once all the holes are bored, test the fit.


One way to streamline the test-fitting of dowel joints is to utalize dowels in just half the holes.


It likewise helps to compress them by rolling them in the file and your bench.


This keeps the dowel holes from loosening while multiple dry-fits.









How to build and fit the frame and panel


The drawer pocket's bottom is a panel set in a frame held together with bridle joints.


These joints are easy to cut with a tablesaw tenoning jig, and their ample glue exterior makes them very robust.


Because the drawer runs directly on the frame, I oriented the frame's joinery so the grain is uninterrupted from front to back.


I made the frame rather wide, so I could handplane a perfect fit later.


I added ⅛-inch-thick edge-banding to hide the end grain on the frame's front edge.


While it is hidden most of the time, the panel inside the frame is more for beauty than strength.


Utalize your primary venture wood, and take care in assembling and finishing.


I cut the tongue on the panel, and the stopped grooves that hold it, on the router table with a fence and straight bit.


Sand the panel prior to this step.


Heavy sanding afterward may loosen the fit.


Prefinish the panel and the inside edges of the frame.


After glue-up, saw ⅛ inch from the front edge and add the edge-banding.


Flush the edge-banding and then plane the edges for the final fit.


Shaping procedure


Once all joinery has been cut and fit, the shaping begins.


I fashioned both outside faces of each leg in a pronounced taper that ends in a graceful curve at the top of the leg.


I likewise fashioned the face of each apron to follow the taper of the legs for a consistent reveal where the two meet.


Lastly, I planed a slight bevel into the edge of the top to match the rest of the piece.


To begin shaping the legs, bandsaw close to one of your template layout lines.


After the first cut, lay the template on the bandsawn exterior and strike a new line for cutting the adjacent face.


At the bench, utalize a combination of block and smoothing planes, scraper, and sandpaper to fair the curves and smooth the exteriors.


The taper in the apron's face is slight and simply planed in by hand.


To lay out for the taper, dry-fit each legand-apron connection, measure the reveal at the top of the joint, and mark the bottom edge of the rail with this measurement.


Strike a line at this mark along the bottom edge, and connect the mark with the top edge of the apron front.


This pair of lines guides the planing.


I used a block plane to chamfer the top and bottom edges of each leg to avoid chipout.


I likewise used a spoke-shave and block plane to shape a subtle curve on the bottom edge of each apron.


Dry-fit the table to ensureall the tapers and discloses are consistent.


The cut-out gap around the legs should be consistent and wide enough to let the top expand and contract.


Finishing


I nearly always prefinish a piece prior to glue-up.


Once the parts are separate, there's no struggling to get a brush or pad into tight curves.


The outcome is a very even finish, even one applied in multiple coats as with the shellac and wax on this piece.


Prep by breaking edges and sanding parts to P400 grit, paying special attention to end grain.


Tape off any exteriors that will get glue.


Gluing up a piece with a lot of components can become a desperate race to apply glue to all of the numerous exteriors and then get the joints together and clamped prior to parts begin seizing.


For greater control, I broke the procedure into four manageable stages.


Begin by gluing and clamping the two side assemblies.


With those in clamps, you have time to glue the dowels into the ends of the drawer rails.


After the glue has dried, glue the drawer rails into the front and rear aprons.


Once this assembly is together, dryfit it into the legs, confirm for square, and clamp.


Once the glue is dry, unclamp and eliminate the leg assemblies.


Apply glue to the tenons on the front and rear aprons, seat them in their mortises, and clamp.


Once this assembly comes out of clamps, the last step is to glue the frame-and-panel bottom into its rabbets.


With the base complete, finish cutting and fitting the drawer joinery.


Assemble the drawer after shaping its bottom edge to match the curve on the underside of the front aprons.


Once the drawer is glued up, shape its front and its bottom edge to match the aprons.


Put the drawer all the way into the drawer pocket.


Utalize a sharp pencil to scribe the shape from the front rail to the end grain on the drawer face.


Be sure to scribe both sides of the drawer face.


Plane close to the lines.


Sneak up on the final shape by checking it in the drawer pocket often as you work.


There are numerous ways to fasten the tabletop to the base.


I used handmade brass brackets, yet commercially made figure-eights would work well, too.


Cut the recess for the fasteners into the aprons.


Pre-drill and attach the brackets to the aprons and then pre-drill and attach the top.









Chapter 2 How to build a Trestle Table
With a very easy form that lets numerous variations, the trestle table can look contemporary or classic. The trestles, the stretcher that joins them, and even the top can be fashioned in myriad ways. The design offers easy access for diners, with no table apron to knock a knee against and more chair room on each side. And it is expandable, scaling up simply from this kitchen-sized table to a large dining table. A key feature on numerous trestle tables, including this one, is the wedged joinery for the stretcher, which is rock-solid even though it's called knockdown. With a through-mortise-and-tenon joint, the stretcher locates and holds the trestles upright. In a marvel of engineering, the wedges lock each item together, avoiding the table from racking along its length. I know of no robuster joint. It's likewise great looking: The ventureing tenons and the wedges add another design element. In this section, I'll focus on the stretcher joinery, the most challenging aspect of the venture. Executing the joinery successfully relies on cautious fitting of the through-tenons and the wedges to their respective mortises.







How to cut the mortises


Furniture building is like painting a floor.


Cautious planning keeps you out of the curves.


In this case, it's vital to lay out and cut the large through-mortises in the posts prior to shaping the posts to preserve a parallel reference edge for guiding the router.


I utalize a template guide bushing and a straightforward shopmade mortising jig to rout mortises.


The jig consists of a ¼-inch MDF routing template attached to a fence that registers against the stock.


The jig centers the mortises on the width of the posts, yet you'll still need to do a little layout.


First, measure from the top of each post to mark the tops and bottoms of the mortises.


Utalize a square to carry the lines around to the board's opposite face, then confirm the edges of both boards side by side to ensure that the marks line up.


Then, because the jig's slot is rather larger than the mortise itself, make a separate registration mark to locate the jig precisely.


Clamp the mortising template securely in place on the outside face of the post.


To cut the mortises, I utalize a plunge router and a ⅜-inch spiral-fluted bit.


It's possible to rout all the way through the post or stop short of full depth and clear the remaining waste with a chisel.


Yet for a technique that will work for posts of greater thickness, begin by routing away in shallow passes about half of the mortise depth.


Then eliminate the template, flip the workpiece, reattach the template on the opposite face, and finish the cut.


After routing the mortises, chop them out square, working in from both faces.


Now you can shape those posts.









How to cut tenons


The size of the stretcher makes it generally hard to handle.


For instance, it's too long to support safely in a tablesaw tenoning jig.


Whatever tenoning technique you use, it needs to be clean and precise all the more so because the tenon's fit will be visible where it exits the big through-mortise.


As with the big posts, joinery comes prior to shaping.


After laying out the stretcher shape and tenon location, I cut the shoulders on the tablesaw, utalizing a miter gauge with a long fence or a crosscut sled with a long stop-block attachment to hold the work and locate the cut.


To cut the tenon cheeks, I utalize the bandsaw with a roller stand for infeed support and a 6-tpi blade for a smooth exterior.


Prior to cutting the tenon to width, I clean up the cheek cuts, trimming the tenon to the appropriate thickness.


To keep the cheeks flat near the shoulder, I utalize a shoulder plane, yet I'll switch to a block plane for quicker stock removal near the tenon ends.


Recall that the last 2 inch or so of the tenon won't be housed in the assembled joint, so that section can have a rather looser fit.


I likewise cut the tenon to width on the bandsaw, again leaving it just oversize and cleaning up with hand equipment until it slides through the mortise with no gaps showing on the outside face.


How to wedge mortises


The last step in making the tenon is to create the mortise for the wedge.


In addition to cutting the mortise straight through the entire width of the tenon, the trick here lies in cutting the outer end of the mortise at an 8 degree angle.


The secret is that the inside wall of the mortise is buried in the post and doesn't need to be chopped out square, so you 
can cut the entire mortise at 8 degree on the drill press.


If your drill press doesn't have a tilting table, utalize a jig.


Mark out the wedge mortise with a center line in the tenon thickness.


Mark the mortise end at ¾ inch past the post, yet have it begin ⅜ inch inside the post.


In this way, the wedge won't bottom out against the back side of the mortise.


Utalizing a brad-point bit, drill the holes at each end of the mortise first.


Work slowly and clear out the waste often.


Then drill out the middle section.


To chop out the remaining waste, clamp the stretcher on the bench and utalize layout lines on the tenon at the 8 degree angle or a sliding bevel placed on the bench to sight against for chopping.


Chop in toward the center of the mortise from both the top and bottom, flipping the workpiece as required.


Chamfer the wedge mortise on both top and bottom so the wedge slides through more simply.


I cut the wedges on the bandsaw utalizing a straightforward holding jig.


Set a sliding bevel to the angle of the mortise and mark out the shape of the wedge on a piece of ¼-inch MDF.


Carefully cut out that shape and file the edges straight.


Glue another piece of MDF to the bottom of this template to hold the workpiece in place.


Make up wedge stock at the appropriate thickness and length and at roughly the correct width.


Then set the bandsaw fence to cut out the wedge.


Clean up the wedges with a bench plane, holding them in a vise or in the jig on a shooting board.









Chapter 3 How to build a dining table
Numerous of my favorite designs began with a challenging request from a client, and that was definitely the case with this table. The client wanted a dining table that would double as a worktable with a lot of storage, so I added double-fronted drawers accessible from either side. That required a drawer with half-blind dovetails at both ends, and a support system that could handle the extra stress of deep drawers once fully loaded. Therefore I intended a table with upper and lower drawer stretchers that have the vertical dividers mortised in solidly. Furthermore, I wanted a clean design that would emphasize the beauty of the wood, and in this case tie into the eclectic setting that would be its home. I chose walnut because the table would be paired with a set of walnut Nakashima benches. The table has the usual parts: legs, stretchers, dividers, runners and kickers, aprons, and drawers. Yet because it is constructed like a torsion box and the drawers have double fronts, the how-to is more like a cross in the chest of drawers and a rudimentary table. Keep track of the joinery and work in the right order and you'll have no trouble reproducing this versatile dining table.







Hollow chiselling Mortises


To begin, I go to my hollow-chisel mortiser and mortise the legs and stretchers, about 52 mortises in all.


The upper and lower stretchers are mortised through their faces for the vertical dividers that separate the drawers.


Take extra care that all these mortises line up top to bottom, because their alignment is critical or the vertical dividers will be crooked.


To do this, I clamp all four pieces together and, utalizing my square as a guide, score a line across the inside edge of the stretchers.


Then I transfer those lines across the faces of the stretchers to lay out the exact mortise locations.


Keep in mind that the legs are intended with a very straightforward double-sided taper that begins at the base of the apron.


I cut the joinery prior to tapering the leg, so I can work on it while it is still flat and square.


I cut the mortises for the lower stretcher and the haunched mortises for the side aprons.


The upper stretchers connect to the legs with lap dovetails.


The socket for the dovetail is cut later.


Now that the mortises are cut, it's time to move on to the tenons on the aprons, the drawer runners and kickers, the lower stretchers, and the vertical dividers.


The side aprons have haunched tenons.


These tenons are cut with several passes on the tablesaw with a ½-inch dado set.


I lay the boards flat on the table and crosscut them, utalizing the fence to set the tenon length.


The tenons on the runners and kickers are cut utalizing the same technique.


To keep from interfering with the vertical drawer divider joinery, the center runners and kickers have two tenons.


I eliminate the waste in the the tenons on the tablesaw with the same sled and technique I utalize for the vertical dividers.


This isn't essential on the end runners and kickers.


The tenons on the lower stretchers aren't as straightforward.


They are joined with a double stub tenon into the leg and a single tenon into the lower apron spacer.


I cut the stub tenons on the bandsaw and utalize the router table and a straight bit to create the tenon that lands in the spacer.


I measure for the mortise in the lower apron spacer and cut it.


Later, once the legs are glued to the apron, I dry-fit the lower stretcher system to the legs and apron, setting the apron spacer in place.


It automatically registers itself, which lets me to mark its location and glue it in place.









Building the upper strechers


While the lower stretchers have mortises and tenons, the upper stretchers are connected to the leg and apron spacer with dovetails.


This makes assembly much easier.


I utalize a straightforward jig to establish the sides of the tails on the bandsaw, and then I cope out the waste and clean up with a chisel.


These structural dovetails are never seen, so appearance is not critical.


With all the leg joinery completed, I now feel comfortable cutting the tapers in the legs.


With just four legs to do, I mark the taper on the legs, cut it freehand on the bandsaw, and then clean it up on the jointer, making sure to register one side against the fence to keep the taper square.


Later, after the legs are glued to the aprons, I'll mark and cut the dovetail socket in the top of the leg post, utalizing a plunge router freehand.


Then I clean it up with chisels.


Gluing up


Because there are so many parts in the drawer system, this glue-up is more complex than the regular table glue-up.


Yet you can break it into manageable stages: the leg/apron assembly, and then the stretcher assembly.


Prior to glue-up, do a final sanding and finishing of the table parts. I utalize a finely set smoothing plane to eliminate mill marks, followed by a random-orbit sander up to P320-grit sandpaper.


Then I apply Tried & True Original Wood Finish to all the parts.


I can always sand more after assembly, yet this step saves time, gives a nicer finish, and benefits a lot with glue cleanup.


Gluing the apron to the front and back legs is 
straightforward, and the mortises dictate the alignment of the parts.


The side aprons have upper and lower spacers glued to them that allow the drawers to clear the legs, which are denser than the aprons.


Nevertheless, I do not attach and cut the joinery in these spacers until the legs are glued to the aprons.


It is easier to cut the joinery once they are separated from the apron, yet I need the leg/apron assembly together to mark the exact location of the joinery on the spacers.


With the joinery done, the spacers can be glued in place.


This is where things get a little complex.


I glue up the front and back lower stretchers with the drawer runners as one frame, then the front and back upper stretchers with the drawer kickers as a second frame.


Then, glue the vertical drawer dividers into the lower stretcher frame.


You have to ensurethey stay straight as they are drying, so you can utalize a slow-dry glue such as Titebond Extend and work on gluing the upper stretcher assembly right away, or you can take the pressure off the glue-up and simply dry-fit the top in place until the dividers are dry.


The final steps happen all at once.


Glue the lower stretcher assembly into the leg/apron assemblies, and drop the top stretcher assembly into place over the dovetail sockets and drawer divider tenons.


It is critical that you confirm all the parts for square.


Measuring the diagonals works well for this.


Here you also can just dry-fit the top in place while the bottom stretcher dries, and then add the top.


With the base assembled, it is time to focus on the drawers.


I combine power equipment and handwork to create consistent dovetails efficiently while keeping a hand-cut appearance.


I utalize quartersawn white oak for the drawer sides.


Its hardness lets the drawer slide simply and with little wear.


It likewise contrasts with the walnut to show off the dovetails.


Custom walnut handles are the finishing touch.


Finishing the top


With the base complete, you can make the top.


I made mine from a series of boards picked for grain appearance and glued up side by side utalizing biscuits for alignment.


After cutting the top to final size, I fashioned the edge with a 12 degree bevel that matches the bevel on the stretchers.


Wooden buttons secure the top to the frame.


To finish the top, I utalize a finely set smoothing plane to take out all the milling marks, and then sand it up to P320 grit.


I then apply several coats of Tried & True Original Wood Finish wiped on and rubbed off by hand.


Even though all parts were pre-completed, I go over the entire piece again with a final few coats.









Chapter 4 How to build a pivot leaf table
When it comes to expanding tables, nothing beats a butterfly table for grace, beauty, and just overall coolness. Its leaf lies under the tabletop and then, like a mechanical wonder, swings up and open, coming to rest fully expanded on the aprons. As the name suggests, it's like a butterfly emerging from its cocoon, sure to draw a gasp of admiration from your dinner guests and fellow woodworking professionals, too.
High level overview


The mechanism is both straightforward and ingenious.


The leaf is two pieces joined by barrel hinges.


It is connected to the table by a pair of pivot pins, and stores neatly under the tabletop.


Then, as your guests arrive, you slide the top apart, take hold of the top half of the leaf, and pull up.


As you do, it rotates on the pins and opens, rising up from beneath the top and unfolding until it rests on the aprons.


At that point, you simply push the sides of the top against it and, voila, you have a larger table.


To stow the leaf, you just reverse the procedure.


No struggle and no loose leaves to store in a closet.


The genius of the mechanism, paired with your craftsmanship, is the perfect way to show how far you've come as a furniture maker.


It's not as hard as you might think. Locating the pivot pins properly is the trick, yet I'll explain a trouble-free way to do it.


And the mechanism is straightforward enough to work with just about any type of table.


The one I've made here is fairly conventional, four legs joined to aprons, but you can make one with a pedestal or trestle base.


The top can be rectangular, round, oval, or just about any shape.


I even have made tops with a serpentine leaf.


It works on big tables, too, as long as you beef up the slides ball-bearing slides are best for big tables and utalize more hinges on the leaf.


Rudimentary structuring


The rudimentary structure of this table is straightforward.


I joined the legs and aprons with slip tenons.


The aprons are curved and the legs tapered, yet I keep them square until after I've made the butterfly mechanism and routed the mortises.


Nevertheless, the butterfly mechanism does need certain explanation.


The two halves of the top are attached to slides that ride in notches cut into both the end aprons and a pair of cross-stretchers that run in the the side aprons.


The slides and notches are T-fashioned and work much better than dovetail-fashioned slides, which tend to bind once the top is extended.


Make the notches and then fit the slides to them.


Cut the vertical part of the notch at the tablesaw, utalizing a standard blade and crosscut sled.


After the vertical part is cut, rout the horizontal part of the notch.


I utalize a handheld router and a spiral upcut bit.


A pair of edge guides ensures a straight slot and a pair of stops controls the length.


After the notches are done, cut the end aprons to length, cutting both ends of the apron to locate the notches properly.


Now make the matching slides.


They are assembled from two pieces of hardwood, which should be straight-grained because it is less likely to warp, twist, cup, and bind in the notches.


Rip the pieces to width and then cut them to length.


Utalize a dado set to cut a shallow groove down the middle of the piece that becomes the horizontal part of the slide.


A tongue routed in the vertical part of the slide registers in 
that groove while glue-up.


Then round over all four edges so that the slide moves smoothly through the notch.


Glue the two pieces together to make the T-fashioned slide.


The slide mechanism likewise has a pair of L-fashioned runners attached to both sides of the top.


They ride in grooves cut in the side aprons.


Stops glued into the grooves bound the in-and-out travel of the top.


I utalize a dado set at the tablesaw, then make the runners.


They're just a length of hardwood with a rabbet that I cut at the tablesaw with a standard blade, one pass for each wall of the rabbet.


For the top to close completely after the runners are installed, the cross-stretchers need to be notched to allow the runners to pass through.


To make the notch, first stand the cross-stretchers on edge and guide them past the tablesaw blade with a crosscut sled.


Then make a ripcut at the bandsaw to free the waste. I notch the runners in the same way.


Lastly, make the stops, yet don't fit them until after the base is assembled and the runners have been attached to the top.


Next, prior to moving on to the top and leaf, assemble the base.


Rout mortises in the aprons, crossstretchers, and legs.


Make slip tenons to fit.


I begin with a long board, round the edges, and then crosscut tenons from it.


Gluing the base together is hard if you do it all at once, so I don't.


Instead, I glue up one pair of legs and an end apron, then the second pair to their apron.


The side aprons and cross-stretchers are then glued together as an element.


To help keep it square, I cut a piece of particleboard to fit in the space in the the cross-stretchers, assemble the side aprons and cross-stretchers around it, and then put on 
clamps.


I leave it there while the glue dries.


After the glue has dried on all three components, I glue them together to form the base.


Hinging the leaf


To make the leaf, glue up an oversize panel and, after the glue has dried, rip it to width.


Leave it long for now; it will be cut to length after a dry-assembly of the top and leaf, so you can mark it directly from the two halves of the top.


After ripping the leaf, cut it in half and fit the hinges.


The perfect hinge for this application is a concealed barrel hinge.


On a top like this, which is 7/8 inch thick, a 16mm hinge is the right size.


The two hinges on the outside are 2 inch from the edge.


Space the rest equally in them.


To drill the holes for the hinges, I make a jig at the drill press.


One half of the leaf is drilled from first side of the jig and the other half from the opposite side.


This ensures that the holes in both halves are mirrors of one another and align perfectly.


After the holes are drilled, fit the hinges.


How to fit the pins


Now it's time to fit alignment pins in the leaf and tabletop halves.


To do that, I utalize a jig similar to the one I used for the hinges.


The holes in the two halves of the top must mirror one another, and the holes in both sides of the leaf must mirror those in the top that they align with.


There are two parts to the alignment pins: the pin and sleeve.


One half of the top gets just pins, and the other half gets just 
sleeves.


After you've installed them, put them in the leaf, too.


Now close the top and shape it.


I used a router and full-size pattern, taking several passes to rout through the full thickness.


Put the leaf in place, mark both ends from the top, and cut it to final length.


How to fit the pivot pins


Now that the base is glued together and the top and leaf are made, fit the pivot pins.


The pins for this table are nothing fancy.


I utalize window bolts bought at a local hardware store.


I like them because you can slide the bolt in and out of the pivot hole, which makes it easy to test-fit the leaf, take it out for finishing and any time you need to move the table, and then put it back in the pins are attached to a batten screwed to the underside of the leaf.


The batten serves two purposes.


First, it lowers the pivot point far enough down the cross-stretchers to allow the leaf to clear the underside of the slides once it is stored in the table.


Second, it helps to keep the leaf flat.


Because it is screwed across the width of the leaf, utalize elongated screw holes in the batten to accommodate the seasonal movement of the leaf.


With the pins installed, drill the pivot holes in the cross-stretchers.


I utalize a drilling guide made at the drill press to ensure the hole is straight and square to the face of the cross-stretcher.


It is long enough to register against the side apron, ensuring that both holes are the same distance from the apron.


If the holes aren't aligned properly, the leaf sits askew under the table and won't open properly.


Next, fit the leaf.


Ensurethat it opens and closes without issue.


If you've drilled the holes in the incorrect place, plug and re-drill them.


Close the leaf and screw a narrow hardwood shelf to the underside of the cross-stretchers.


Once closed, the leaf rests on it, taking the weight off of the pivot pins and holes.


Eliminate the leaf.


Place the top upside down on the bench and then put the base on the top.


Put the slides in their notches and then screw them to the top.


Now glue the stops into the grooves in the side aprons, and screw the runners to the top.









Chapter 5 How to build a tabletop
The top is the most visible part of the table, so you need to get it right. This sounds easy on the exterior, yet the procedure is loaded with pitfalls. I'll describe my technique for producing a tabletop you can be proud of. You'll learn how to select the best boards, mill them, and arrange them for the best-looking sequence. I'll describe you how three glueups are less traumatic than one. Then I will also describe how to achieve a perfectly flat and smooth tabletop. Recall that someone is going to be living with this table for numerous years. As a furniture maker, one of the advantages you have over the factory is that you can hand-pick beautiful boards. Those early decisions make or break a tabletop.
Begin as follows


The best design option is to make the top from a single wide board.


Realistically, though, that is bounded to small tabletops.


Most often you'll need to glue up boards, and the lumber selection will be critical.


You'll be removing a lot of material while flattening and planing, so begin with lumber that is reviewably denser than the final thickness.


For a top that will be ¾ inch to 7 /8 inch thick, plan on utalizing roughsawn 4/4 lumber, normally 1 inch to 1 1 /16 inch thick.


The best-looking tops are typically made from a number of planks cut from the same board.


You can cut successive sections from a long board, or resaw boards from a denser plank.


Not just will the color match perfectly once utalizing resawn boards, yet you can create symmetrical patterns such as book-matching and slip-matching.


Nevertheless, once resawing you will need stock at least 10/4 (2 ½ inch) or even 12/4 (3 inch) thick because the resawn parts will move a lot after they are cut and may become severely cupped, twisted, or bowed.


Select as many boards as you will need and try to match the color as best you can.


You may have to spend a reviewable amount of time sorting through the lumber stack.


Don't be afraid to buy lumber that is wider than you think you will need.


Often you will bandsaw a few inches off one or both edges to yield a board with straight grain and no sapwood along the edge.


If you look at the end grain of any flatsawn board with straight-grain edges, you'll see that the growth rings near those edges are approximately 45 degree to the face.


That part of the board is riftsawn.


By joining together the riftsawn to riftsawn parts of the boards, you are ensuring that the top will stay flat.


As the face grain of any riftsawn section is mostly straight, you have the advantage of hiding the glueline.


After bringing the boards home, stack them horizontally for a week or more so that they can acclimate to the humidity in your shop.


This is particularly vital for air-dried lumber.









How to cut the boards


Begin rough milling by deciding where you will chop each individual board that will make up the top.


Are there knots, sapwood, or other obvious defects you need to cut out or hide?


All planers and jointers leave certain snipe the tendency of the equipment to take a deeper bite at the end of a cut.


Make the sections at least 5 inch longer than final length, so you can cut away areas of snipe.


Next, lay out the width of the board you will need on the roughsawn plank normally about ¾ inch wider than the final width.


Note which edges have straight grain that you can utalize for the glue joint.


If the boards are wide enough, you can angle the sections so that the edges are parallel to the grain.


Crosscut the boards on the chopsaw and rip them on the bandsaw or with a circular saw and not the tablesaw.


How to exterior and lay out the boards


Once your boards are sawn to rough width and length, you're ready to joint and plane them.


At this point, you just want the boards roughly flat and planed so that the faces are just parallel.


If you take too many passes on the jointer and planer, you may not have enough material left to plane after the glue-up.


Joint one edge straight and rip the opposite edge parallel, leaving it about ¼ inch to ⅜ inch over final width.


Each pair of boards combined should be narrow enough to fit through your planer.


Pass the ripped edge over the jointer to eliminate the sawmarks.


With the boards planed enough to reveal the grain and the color, you're ready to make the final decision on how they will go together.


Shuffle them to find the most pleasing combination.


Don't try to arrange boards so that the grain lines run from one board.


More often than not, the match will get thrown off as soon as you plane the boards to final thickness.


As you try different combinations, step back and look at them from a few angles.


The color and figure of numerous boards will change dramatically depending on the direction from which you view them because light is being reflected differently from the wood cells within the board.


This effect is known as chatoyance.


Try to align boards so the grain is going the same way.


Doing so will make it easier to plane the top smooth later.


Yet don't sacrifice aesthetics for practicality.


Appearance is the number one priority.


Numerous woodworking professionals make a big deal over alternating the direction of the end grain because they think it will help to keep the top flat over time.


Nevertheless, I give priority to a board's best appearance on the top face and pay little attention to the end-grain orientation because I am milling the boards cautiously prior to glue-up.


As you shuffle the boards, keep track of the different combinations by drawing small triangles with a number inside them across the gluelines.


Most of the time, the best combination will hit you as soon as you see it.


Once you've made the final decision, put a large triangle across all the boards to show clearly how they go together.


I'll likewise describe how to prep the boards for glue-up.









Edge jointing procedure


The first step is to run the adjoining edges of each board over the jointer to form the glue joint.


Confirm that the jointer fence is at 90 degree, yet alternate the faces of boards against the jointer fence to cancel any error in the jointer setup.


If one edge measures 91 degree, the angle on the adjacent edge will measure 89 degree and the boards will lay up flat.


Every so often this means jointing against the grain and risking tearout, so make light cuts with a slow feed rate.


To ensure that the joint closes along the edges of the boards, take a bit more wood from the middle than from the ends, creating a slight gap in the middle of the joint.


This is called springing the joint.


As the clamp pressure closes the gap in the middle, the joint will just get tighter toward the ends of the boards.


To spring the joint, set the jointer to take a light cut and utalize a slow feed rate.


Begin the cut by exerting a small amount of downward pressure on the board as it goes across the cutterhead.


Once about 6 inch of the board is on the outfeed table, push down hard on the board with your left hand just past the cutterhead.


Continue with this slow feed and heavy pressure until about 6 inch remains.


At that point, lighten up on the board until you're exerting nearly no downward pressure, and finish the cut.


Do the same to the adjacent board.


The gap in the center will be too small to see, yet you can test the joint by standing the boards up with their sprung edges together.


Now try to swivel the top board.


The points of contact at either end should provide enough friction to avoid this.


If the top board swivels on the bottom one, you have a small lump somewhere.


Rip 1 /16 inch off the sprung edge of one board, spring it 
again, and then re-test the joint.


If you still feel the swivel, re-joint the other board.


A properly made butt joint will be robuster than the wood itself, eliminating the need to add biscuits or dowels for strength.


As a matter of fact, biscuits and dowels can every so often hinder you from aligning the boards while glue-up.


A common issue is that the glued-up top will be wider than your planer.


The straightforwardst way to handle this is to divide the top into two or more subassemblies, each one sized to fit through the planer.


Then glue the two subassemblies together, leaving very little flattening to do on the completed tabletop.


A level exterior to clamp on is very important because you do not want any distortion.


I utalize a flat sheet of melamine cut to the size of my benchtop, which likewise protects it from glue drips.


I normally will utalize an odd number of clamps, in this case three on the bottom and two on top.


Placing clamps on the top and bottom helps equalize pressure and produces a flatter glue-up.


Space the bottom clamps equally and lay out the boards on top of them, utalizing the triangle you drew earlier as a guide.


After applying the glue, ensurethe triangle lines are aligned, and then tighten the middle clamp rather, pushing down on the joints to align them.


Work your way out to the ends, maintaining moderate clamp pressure and aligning the joints as you go.


Eliminate any glue squeeze-out prior to putting on the top clamps.


Once all the clamps are in place, apply an even amount of pressure to each one.


Turn over the assembly and eliminate the excess glue in the the clamps.


Place a straightedge across the boards in several places to ensureuneven clamping pressure hasn't bowed the workpiece.


Adjust the clamp pressure if essential.


After the subassemblies dry, run them through the planer to eliminate any misalignment in the the boards.


Then flip them end for end and plane the other side parallel.


Plane them down to less than 1 /32 inch over final thickness, taking light cuts near the end to minimize tearout.


Now repeat the glue-up procedure, this time gluing the two subassemblies together.


Take extra care to get a flush glue joint as you have very little surplus thickness to work with.


Once the glue dries, you're ready to flatten, dimension, and smooth the tabletop.









How to flattening and smoothing


If you begined with straight, flat boards and your glue-up went well, your top may be flat enough to proceed to final smoothing.


It's more likely, nevertheless that the top will be rather cupped, or the glue joint in the subassemblies won't be perfect.


Flattening a top is not hard.


I favour handplanes for flattening and smoothing.


They work faster than sandpaper and guarantee a flat exterior.


Yet cautious sanding, by power or hand, will work, too.


To plane the top, secure it in the benchdogs, cupped side up.


It should not move once you press on it.


If it rocks or deflects, tap in wedges underneath to stabilize it.


With a long handplane favourably at least a No. 5, yet you can utalize a No. 4 if the top is narrow, begin planing diagonally across the exterior.


Begin at one end and work down the length, overlapping strokes.


Confirm your progress with a straightedge.


The plane should be cutting the high spots only.


Once it takes a shaving the whole way across, the face is flat.


Begin planing along the length, begining at the far end and working your way back, overlapping the strokes.


Here you are just trying to eliminate most of the tearout from the diagonal planing.


Final surfacing comes later.


Once you are done, flip over the top end for end and flatten the other side.


At this point, the top is still a little larger than its completed size.


To get to the final width, first re-joint one edge utalizing a handplane or the jointer.


Rip the top to width on the tablesaw and then joint or 
handplane the ripped edges to smooth them.


Now that the sides are parallel, crosscut the top to length.


This can be tricky, as nearly all tabletops are too big for a miter gauge.


A crosscut sled is the easiest, safest, and most precise way to do the job.


Cut one end square, then flip the top and cut the other end to completed length.


If you used a jointer to prep the edges prior to glue-up, cut off at least 1 inch from each end of the top.


Doing so removes any snipe from the jointer that can weaken the very end of the glue joint.


If the top is too large for a crosscut sled, utalize a square to draw a layout line across the ends and utalize a circular saw or jigsaw to cut about 1 /16 inch outside the lines.


Clamp a straight piece of plywood on the line, then flip over the top and utalize a router with a flush-trimming bit, running against the plywood edge, to clean up the end.


A spiral flush-trimming bit works well.


With the top cut to size, it is time for final surfacing.


There are numerous ways to do this, and you should utalize equipment you are comfortable with.


I typically utalize a smoothing plane, a block plane, a card scraper, and certain P320- or P400-grit sandpaper, yet many people utalize cabinet scrapers, random-orbit sanders, or belt sanders.


To begin, utalize a very sharp block plane on the ends to smooth out any marks left from the tablesaw or the router.


End grain is tough to plane, so take very light cuts and skew the plane.


A little furniture wax on the sole of the plane likewise will benefit it cut smoothly.


To circumvent tearing out the long grain of the far edge, stop planing an inch or two prior to the end and then come at it from the opposite side.


Now wrap a piece of P320- or P400-grit sandpaper around a cork sanding block and, with a few strokes, you will have ends that feel like glass.


Eliminate the jointer marks on the long edges with a 
handplane or a card scraper.


These machine marks and light tearout can be hard to see.


To help highlight any tearout, lightly sand the edges with stearated P320- or P400-grit paper wrapped around a cork sanding block.


Any tearout will show up because the fine sanding dust will fill in the voids from the tearout.


Once the edges are smooth, it's time to smooth the top and bottom.


I generally utalize a No. 4½ smoothing plane, yet you likewise can utalize a No. 4. Ensure the handplane is as sharp as possible, the mouth is closed up fairly tight, and it is set for a light cut.


Secure the tabletop, bottom face up, in the benchdogs, utalizing scrapwood to protect the ends.


I plane or scrape just the portion that will overhang the base, yet certain people exterior the entire bottom.


Now you are ready to make the top exterior perfect.


Work slowly and methodically, beginning at the far side and working across utalizing overlapping passes.


Plane with the grain to circumvent tearout in the final exterior.


If you are getting tearout where two boards meet, try taking light cuts diagonally across the joint.


Now sand the exterior with P320-grit paper.


This step will highlight any areas of tearout.


Go over the exterior with a card scraper.


Because the exterior left from the scraper feels a little rough, sand the top again with P320- or P400-grit paper.


If you are planning to utalize a pigment stain on the piece, then sand the whole exterior with a coarser paper, typically P180 or P150 grit.


I lightly chamfer all the edges and curves with the block plane.


Your top is done, so don't drop it.









Chapter 6 How to customise tabletop edges
I anticipate a lot from a tabletop edge. On one hand, I need it to be hard, able to endure a life full of bumps and bruises, even spills. Yet I want the edge to be eye-catching, with lines that are in keeping with the overall piece and with a profile that is pleasant to touch. It's not an easy dance to master, yet it's a fun challenge. I treat table edges with admiration, spending a great deal of time on them. My objective is to design edges that are as alluring as the rest of the piece. I utalize the edges as a canvas to add detail or create interest by including facets that catch light or add shadows. Yet make the edges too delicate, and they won't hold up to the ruthless wear and tear of use. I look to soften sharp, square exteriors so that they're friendly to hand and body. Subtle shapes can be very appealing, and less is typically more.
Designing the piece


When designing a tabletop edge, make the profile an important part of a cohesive design.


Generally, straightforward furniture calls for straightforward edges while more intricate designs call for more elegant profiles.


I review the shape or aesthetic of the table and its function, the size of the overhang, the wood the top is made of, and how thick it is or how thick I would like the top to appear.


You can make the top look thinner by shaping the underside of the edge with, say, an underbevel.


You can accentuate thickness by utalizing a straightforward bullnose or roundover, or utalizing a beveled top edge.


The overhang of a tabletop is a critical part of a table's design.


Dining tables may have wider overhangs to accommodate seating, while an overhang on a sideboard may be shorter to allow access to a door or drawer.


The size of the overhang will have a direct impact on the width of the edge profile and the way it's seen.


Wide overhangs can be nice, yet they partially conceal the aprons or any drawers from standing view.


In such a case, you may select an underbevel profile, which exposes particulars below the top.


Shorter overhangs bound the size of the edge profile to the thickness of the top, such as a bullnose or beaded edge.


How to decide on wood tops


If you are really on your toes, you'll select a profile that works with your wood selection, whether softwood or hardwood, figured or plain.


Softwoods and hardwoods each have working characteristics that make them suitable for particular profiles.


Softwoods age to a beautiful patina, yet they dent simply and don't take or hold detail as well as harder woods.


So for softwood tops, you may incorporate pronounced chamfers or bold profiles with less complex shaping and no sharp edges.


The harder the wood, the better it holds detail, so harder tops are better for multifaceted edges.


Lastly, think about the figure; a tabletop with abundant figure or prominent grain may beg for a less-detailed edge that doesn't compete for attention.


Custom Edging


Some woodworking professionals select an edge profile based on the router bits they have.


I circumvent that approach because I don't want my furniture to look factory made.


Production furniture has a certain look, with predictable edges, perfect 45 degree chamfers, blunt bullnoses, and other recognizable profiles cut with routers or shapers.


The edges are great and durable, yet they don't seem very creative or interesting.


Nevertheless, once I create one of a kind edges that fit my style, common router bits can be a begining point.


They certainly make things easier.


So I every so often utalize a router to rough out the profile, and then refine the machined edge with hand equipment.


Every so often all it takes is delicate passes with a block plane or a spokeshave, or even scrapers and sandpaper.


From straightforward to complex, the edge profiles can be used individually or combined to create dazzling designs


I often incorporate chamfers in my work to create light-catching facets along edges.


A light chamfer is created by kissing the corner with a block plane.


More passes with the plane create wider chamfers.


The detail can be incorporated into any number of edge profiles.


Chamfers can be cut at any angle, even a different angle on the top than the bottom.


You likewise can cut multiple chamfers into an edge, creating a multifaceted exterior.


A bevel is simply a wide chamfer.


Cut on the top edge or the bottom, they are often used to disguise or play up the thickness of the top.


Steep angles generally accentuate thickness, while wider, sweeping bevels tend to play it down, especially once used on the bottom edge.


Though I think of bullnose-style roundovers as a rather unimaginative staple of the modern furniture industry, these edges work well at deflecting dings in a high-traffic area.


One way to make an otherwise bland roundover more eye-catching is to reshape it so that it's not just a radius or section of a circle; every so often an asymmetrical roundover is best.


Another way is to utalize just part of the full radius, so the roundover has hard edges.


To add even more interest, I often lick the top and bottom of the profile with a block plane to create fine, light-catching chamfers.


I likewise combine a roundover with other profiles, creating any number of elegant custom variations.


High-style tabletops often feature complex edge profiles with multiple shapes.


Here's where I utalize a router to rough out the profile, and then planes or custom-made scrapers to refine it.


Once working this way, I often create a small wooden mock-up to dial in the profile and then utalize it to gauge my progress on the real edge.


I utalize beaded profiles in many ways: along table aprons, on drawer fronts, and on legs.


Yet they likewise work well as part of a table profile.


I favour to cut beads with hand equipment in order to create a fine quirk the narrow indentation on the inside edge of the bead.


Bead-cutting router bits leave a wide quirk.


You can combine a bead with a chamfer to create an elegant edge with lots of light-reflecting and shadow-catching exteriors.


You likewise can incorporate multiple beads for a traditional look.


Unless you are making a strict period reproduction, it's hard to say that one profile is better than another; it all depends on your design and taste.


By adding subtle particulars to the rudimentary profiles presented here, you can come up with a unique shape that fits your furniture.


Explore the possibilities.


For me, playing with the edges has become one more fun part of building special pieces.









Chapter 7 How to build a curved front desk
Of all the furniture that I've intended, the desk I will describe is one of my favorites. I love its graceful lines and the inward curve of the front. The stepped drawer fronts echo that arc, yet are likewise practical, creating space for your legs. The shape of the legs, a simplified turn on the cabriole is curvaceous, too. And the top, which has a curved edge to match the front of the base, completes the picture. Because it's a study in curves, I know this desk might seem too hard for numerous woodworking professionals. Joinery on curved parts can be demanding. But essentially it isn't. All of the joints are cut once the parts are still straight. The shaping is done after they're complete. That's even true of the drawers, which have curved fronts. You'll be surprised at how easy it is to cut the dovetails, after I describe a trick that lets you treat them as if the front were square to the sides. Another key is to make templates of all of the curves. You can utalize a batten or flexible ruler to make the leg template. Yet because the template for the front rails and top is likewise used for shaping those parts, I recommend a jig for large-radius arcs because it produces a smooth, perfectly fashioned arc.
Begin with the legs and aprons


The side and back aprons are standard fare, straight with tenons on both ends.


Nevertheless, the legs have curves on all four sides, the shape is a version of a cabriole leg.


They aren't hard to make: Just trace and bandsaw a pattern onto the two outside faces.


Yet prior to you shape them, you'll need to mortise them and cut a bevel on the front face of the front legs, so that they flow seamlessly into the curve of the front rails and drawers.


Likewise tenon the side and back aprons to fit their mortises.


Now you can shape the front legs.


Cut the sides of the legs first by cutting the shape marked on 
the front.


Then, cut the front and back profiles of the leg by cutting out the pattern marked on the outside face.


Last, break off the waste from the first two cuts and clean up the leg with a spokeshave and block plane.


How to make the top rails


There are three drawers in the desk.


To make fitting them easier, it's vital to build the rail and divider assembly so that the drawer pockets are square.


I do that by dry-fitting the back apron in the the two side assemblies, clamping a precise spacer near the front, and then fitting the top rail and drawer dividers.


The top rail is dovetailed into the legs and side aprons, while the divider assemblies are tenoned into the rail and joined to the back apron with a sliding dovetail.


After the rail and dividers have been dry-fitted to the rest of the base, the base is square and the drawer pockets are defined.


Then the bottom center rail is fitted to the dry-assembled base.


Just then are the parts fashioned.


After gluing up the side assemblies, dry-clamp the back apron in them.


Clamp a spacer in the the side aprons on the front of the base to help locate the top rail.


Put the back edge of the top rail blank against the front edge of the spacer.


It should stick out ⅛ inch beyond the corner of the leg where the front and inside faces meet and be centered on the base's length.


Scribe a baseline where the leg and side apron intersect the rail.


Repeat the procedure at the other end, take the rail off, and extend the lines around to the top of the rail.


Lay out two dovetails at each end of the rail:


One goes into the leg and the other into the side apron.


Cut the tails and transfer their locations to the leg and the 
side apron.


Make the sockets.


Fit the joints and put the rail in place.


Lay the template on the top rail, aligning it with the inside corner of the front legs, and trace the curve.


Knowing the curve's location benefits with the next step.


The top rail has mortises to hold the drawer dividers in place.


After laying out and cutting the mortises, set the rail aside.


It won't be fashioned until after the dividers and bottom center rail have been made.


Then up are the drawer dividers.


Rout the sliding dovetail sockets in the back apron and then rout the mating keys.


Cut the dividers to length and make the end caps.


Lastly, cut the tongue-and-groove joint that joins each end cap to its divider.


Glue together the two parts.


Reassemble the base and fit the bottom center rail.









How to shape the parts


Now begin shaping the front, beginning with the top rail.


Rough out the curve at the bandsaw and then rout it flush to the template.


Dry-assemble the top rail to the dividers and transfer the arc onto the top edge of the end caps.


Disassemble the parts and cut that bevel.


Reassemble the parts dry, this time adding the bottom center rail.


Mark that rail where the dividers run into it.


Pull the assembly apart and utalize the template to draw the arc.


Rough it out and then rout it flush.


That's all the shaping for now.









How to add the buttom outside rails


You could cut the bottom outside rails from a wide blank.


Nevertheless, if you did this, the grain would run out toward the edges, creating short-grain weakness. Instead utalize a narrower blank, angling its ends so that it fits in the the leg and the divider.


First, make a template with ends that run on a slant from the leg to the divider, giving you the distance in the the shoulders and the tenon locations.


Utalize it to lay out the shoulders and tenons of the rails.


Lay out the lap dovetail, too.


Cut and fit the joints.


These rails are the last parts glued up while assembly.


To make that work, round over the top of the tenon ends with a ¾-inch radius works, so that you can pivot them into the mortise as you put the dovetail into its socket.


Next, rough out the curve on the rails and clean it up with a spokeshave.


There is one last thing to do prior to you can finish gluing up the base: rout grooves in the drawer dividers for the runners.


Finishing up


The wooden drawer runners are glued into grooves in the drawer dividers and, on the ends, filler blocks that bring the runners out past the legs.


I rout all of the grooves at the router table.


After they're routed, finish gluing up the base.


First glue the back apron in the the two side assemblies.


Then glue the bottom center rail to the dividers, and add the top rail.


After that assembly is dry, glue it into the base.


Lastly, glue the bottom outside rails into place.


Don't glue the filler blocks in yet.


Do that after you've made the runners, because they are used to locate the filler blocks level with the runners in the 
dividers.


The runners aren't complex.


After rounding over one end of a wide board, I rip the runners from it and crosscut them to length.


The two that go in the filler blocks need to be notched at the front and back to fit over the legs.


The others just need one notch at the front to fit over the dividers.


Make the notches long enough that the runners can move back and forth in the grooves that extra space comes into play once the runners are glued in.


Now dry-fit the runners in the grooves.


Place the head of a combination square on the top edge of the divider and extend the rule down to the top edge of the runner.


Lock it at that distance.


Utalize the combination square, referenced on the top edge of the side aprons, to locate the filler blocks the runners are dry-fitted into them.


This guarantees that the two runners are level with one another.


Glue on the filler blocks, yet don't glue in the runners.


That will be done after the drawers are made, because the runners likewise function as stops.


Now turn to the drawers.


The curved fronts are cut from blanks after the dovetails have been cut, and their final shaping is done after the glue-up, with the drawers in their pockets so that the fronts can be blended seamlessly into the curve of the rails.


Begin by routing grooves in the sides for the drawer runners.


To set the router table's fence for these cuts, I make a long spacer block that fits in the the top of the drawer pocket and the top of the runner.


Utalize the block to set the distance in the the fence and the bit, it should fit snugly in the them.


Rout the grooves, referencing the top of the drawer side off the fence.


After the grooves are routed, dovetail the drawer sides to 
the front and back.


There is nothing tricky about the through-dovetails at the back of the drawers, because both the sides and back are straight.


Yet the half-blind dovetails at the front can be a challenge, so I'll give you a few tips.


First, don't cut the fronts from thick blanks.


Rather, make them the same way the bottom outside rails were made.


Then rabbet the ends.


This creates a square recess for the sides and lets you to cut the dovetails as if the parts meet at 90°.


After the joinery is done, dry-assemble the drawers and slide them onto the runners and into their pockets.


Set the drawer in so that you can trace the top rail's curve on the drawer front.


Do this for both the front and back curve.


Take the drawers apart, rough out the curve at the bandsaw, and smooth the cuts with a spokeshave.


Now it's time to cut the grooves for the drawer bottom.


I do it at the tablesaw with a dado set.


The challenge here is the groove in the back of the drawer front, because it's curved.


The groove is narrow and shallow, and the curve on the drawer's back is gentle, so it can be done safely.


To ensure that the groove is the same depth along its length, rock the front as it enters the dado blades, so that the back is always on the table as it passes them.


Now glue up the drawers.


After the glue dries, clean up the drawer sides with a handplane.


Then make the bottoms.


Begin with a square panel cut to final width. Rabbet the sides and slide the panel into the grooves as far as it will go.


Then utalize a small spacer block and pencil to scribe the curve of the drawer front onto the bottom.


Cut the curve on the bandsaw and rout a rabbet on the front end.


Now glue in the runners.


Put some glue in the grooves and then insert the runners and push them toward the front.


Now put the drawers on the runners and push them in so that the drawer front is flush with the rails.


This sets the runners at the right location to likewise function as stops.


Pull out the drawer and clamp the runners in place. Let the glue dry.


Make the drawer pulls and screw them on.


Then make the top.


It begins as a large panel glued up from several boards. I utalize a template to draw the curve on the front edge, rough it out at the bandsaw, and rout it flush to the template.


The top is held to the base with shopmade buttons.









Chapter 8 How to make strong cabinet backs
Like numerous enthusiastic readers and book collectors, I have numerous bookcases. Over the years, I've jammed certain of them so full that paperbacks are wedged into any usable opening. The shelves are so crowded, in fact, that it's nearly impossible to see the back of the case. For strictly practical cabinets like these, a sturdy back can be as straightforward as a plain sheet of plywood. Yet there are other types of cases that need a good-looking back, and certain instances in which an eye-catching back likewise must be rock solid. I have display cases, For instance, that house ceramics, antique equipment, and other prized possessions. For cases like these, the back needs to look good. The case has a pair of inset glass doors, so the back must look great and likewise be quite rigid. That helps hold the case square and keep the doors from racking and binding, regardless of the substantial weight of the books. Luckily, there are several ways to make an eye-catching back; certain combine great looks with building rigid enough for the most demanding applications. Apart from that bare sheet of plywood, most cabinet backs fall into two rudimentary designs: slats or frame-and-panel. Slats offer a wide variety of looks—from rustic to refined and their joinery lets for wood movement. They work well with open-front cases yet aren't rigid enough for cabinets with inset doors. A frame-and-panel back, whether it's made with floating panels or glued-in plywood, is sturdier
Options to select from


The rudimentary aesthetic objective for any slatted back is a pleasing, consistent pattern that doesn't involve very narrow or wide slats on the edges.


I stagger the width of the slats, utalizing pieces around 4 inch and 5 inch wide.


Wider boards look better on larger backs.


For slatted backs, three rudimentary forms of joinery come into play.


In order of straightforwardness, these are shiplapping, splining, and tongue-and-groove.


Shiplappin


Shiplapping involves rabbetting opposite sides of the same board so that the edges of adjoining slats overlap.


Utalize a router table, a tablesaw with dado head, or a shaper; make the rabbets about ¼ inch wide and half as thick as the stock.


For small cases, the back is 28½ inch wide and 42¾ inch tall, slats as thin as 5 /16 inch would work.


Yet because shiplapped joints are not truly interlocking, large cases require denser slats to circumvent having edges twist out and pull away from the case.


Another strategy for this is to utalize a splined or tongue-and-groove back, both of which join the slats more securely.


Splining


For boards of this size and length, cut a groove ⅛ inch to 3 /16 inch wide.


Keep the groove no deeper than 3 /16 inch to ¼ inch or you risk breaking off one of the sides.


It's straightforwardst to center the groove on the slat's edge unless you plan to add a bead or chamfer on the front of the board.


In that case, cut the groove closer to the back of the board, yet not so close that it compromises the strength of the groove's back lip.


On the tablesaw, utalize a featherboard and a tall auxiliary fence for safety and consistency of cut.


A zero-clearance insert adds safety and avoids tearout.


You likewise can cut the grooves with a slot cutter mounted on a shaper or router table.


Most slotcutter sets are intended to cut a groove about ½ inch deep, so I bury the cutter in the fence to get a shallower cut and to decrease tearout.


A fence-mounted feather board adds both safety and accuracy.


After cutting the grooves, I create splines by thickness-planing a board of slat stock to a little less than the combined depth of the two grooves and utalizing the tablesaw to rip off strips that fit snugly in the grooves.


Once mounting the slats in the case, leave a slight gap, no more than 1 /16 inch, in the the pieces to allow for movement.


Tongue and groove


Positioning and cutting the grooves for tongue-and-groove slats is the same as for splining.


Because these boards aren't very wide, there will be minimal movement, so the groove does not need to be very deep.


Amana sells a two-wing, slot-cutting assembly marketed under the name of Quadra set that can be adjusted to cut both halves of the joint with a slot width as narrow as ⅛ inch and expandable in 1 /32 -inch increments.


There is a distinct advantage in cutting both the top and bottom rabbets at the same time, because the tongue is guaranteed to be consistent and fit the groove.


In my involvement, cutting one side at a time, regardless of setup efforts, leads to variations in the tongue thickness that may require touch-up with a rabbet plane.









Embellishments


Chamfers and beads are the two most common forms of edge detail on slat backs.


For chamfers on splined or shiplapped slats, bury the bit into an auxiliary fence to ensure that the chamfer doesn't take up the entire edge.


For tongue-and-groove slats, I make a special fence that lets me to chamfer both the tongued and the grooved slats with one router-table setup.


I cut one of the lips off an extra piece of grooved stock, and then bury the V-groove bit into the lower lip.


Don't utalize a chamfering bit here.


The tongue on your slats will ride the bit's bearing and push the work away from the cutter.


The small flat that was left below the chamfer rides the edge of the rabbet.


I normally bead just tongue-and-groove slats, utalizing a high fence and a beading bit in a tablemounted router.


I cut the bead on the tongued section.


Once utalizing thin stock, I don't bead the grooved edge because it will weaken the lip.


This isn't an issue for larger cases with denser back boards.


If possible, set the top of the bead a little below the exterior of the board so that it is not flattened while subsequent planing, scraping, and sanding stages.


Frame and panel


Frame-and-panel backs are much more rigid than slat backs and, as a result, are more effective at keeping a case from racking.


Frame-and-panel backs are likewise quite eye-catching, and the usage of contrasting panels adds a contemporary feel.


A very traditional back can be made with full tenons and a solid, raised panel, yet I favour another technique, utalizing plywood panels.


This is just as eye-catching yet easier and more rigid.


Plywood frameand-panel backs can be made with a straightforward, quick technique.


For a case of this size, utalize ⅝-inch to ¾-inch frame stock with panels made from ⅜-inch or ½-inch plywood.


Plywood is obtainable rotary cut in common species such as walnut, mahogany, cherry, and red or white oak.


Since the panels aren't large, it is not hard to cut a sheet for optimum appearance.


Plain-sliced plywood has a more uniform look, yet may not be as readily obtainable in most species.


Size the back about ⅛ inch taller and wider than the rabbeted case opening.


Design the back so that interior stiles and rails are proportional to each other.


In my bookcase, the back is divided into two panels for a balanced look.


The center stile is about ½ inch narrower to compensate for the edges of the side, which rest in a rabbet in the case.


Making the frame, I utalize stub-tenon joinery, which is a wonderful way to make frames rapidly for a variety of applications such as cabinet backs and dust panels.


By itself, this frame isn't as robust as one made with traditional mortise-and-tenon joinery.


Yet with plywood panels glued in place, you wind up with a lightweight back that is more rigid than its traditional cousin.


The joinery is easy to cut.


Begin by plowing a full-length groove, ½ inch deep and ¼ inch wide, along the inner edges of the frame members.


You can do this with a slot cutter or dado head.


Lay out the tenons so they are centered on the stock.


You can cut them rapidly utalizing any tenoning jig.


With all the joints cut, fit the frame together and size the panels.


Measure the panel openings and add 7 /8 inch to the length and width to account for the panel's rabbeted edges.


Cut the rabbets about ½ inch to 9 /16 inch wide.


There is no need to make the reveal specifically even, as the rabbets are not visible from the front of the case.


Glue up in stages, it's best to approach the glue-up very systematically, begining with the top and bottom rails and the center stile.


Then, apply a bead of glue along the back edges of the grooves only. In this way, any squeeze-out will be on the back of the plywood panel.


Slide the panels in, mount the side stiles dry, and clamp the whole assembly, making sure each item is flat and square.


After about half an hour, unclamp the assembly, glue on the side stiles, and reclamp.


Fit the panel to the case.


Taking special care to keep the panel square, size it for a snug fit in the case back.


Racking is devastating if you plan to utalize inset doors.


Rather than nails, utalize screws to hold paneled backs in place.


This facilitates easy removal for finishing or any other reason that might arise.


Chapter 9 How to build bookselfves
This small yet classic bookcase is one of my favorite ventures. The completed piece is practical and eye-catching, and for the fledgling woodworker it presents a great introduction to face-frame case building. A face frame on a case piece serves a couple of different roles. It improves how the piece looks, letting you hide through-dadoes and change proportions to make the front of the piece appear more substantial and formal. In case you're adding doors, it can help keep the opening square and lets a great mounting exterior for the hinges. Like anything else in woodworking, though, there's more than one way to get the job done. Numerous furniture makers build the case first and then assemble and attach the face frame. I take a different approach.
High level overview


My early woodshop training was in commercial cabinetry, where the practice was to build the frame first.


I do it that way for fine furniture, too, because it offers 
several advantages.


First, building the frame at the outset gives me the freedom to alter its dimensions rather to fix any tearout or minor mistakes in its building.


For instance, this frame is decorated with a bead around its inner edge with miters in the curves that can be easy to miscut.


I'd lose the flexibility to make an easy fix if I were building the frame to fit an already glued-up case.


Second, I like joining the face frame to the case with robust and positive tongue-and-groove joinery as opposed to just gluing the frame in place.


Assembling the face frame prior to building the case makes it easier to locate that joinery.


I like that positive connection because the assembled frame helps align the whole assembly while glue-up of the case, streamlineing the procedure and helping to ensure that it goes together squarely.


If you've never tried the face-frame-first technique, read on.


This bookcase venture will provide all of the advantages.


Designing and building a face frame


The face frame on this cabinet is decorated with a ¼-inch bead that runs around the inside edge and is mitered at the curves.


I cut this bead at the router table while the stock is still wide and long, so that any bead marred by tearout, snipe, or other mistakes can be cut away and redone.


Afterward, rip the frame members extra wide and run them through the planer on edge to a completed width that is 1 /32 inch Later, after the case and frame are glued up, you'll plane away this extra material to bring the frame flush with the case sides.


As I mentioned, mitering the beaded curves on the frame can be challenging because it's possible to miscut by a fraction and wind up with a gappy miter.


If that happens, simply cut the miter again and recut the 
corresponding parts to match.


You'll end up with a rather shorter or narrower frame, yet that won't be an issue since my procedure ensures that the case will fit the frame.


If, instead, I messed up a miter while trying to fit the frame to an already assembled case, I wouldn't have room for that sort of adjustment.


My just choice would be to waste time and stock milling up new frame parts.


Once the miters are cut, you can cut the joinery for the face frame and then glue up the frame.


Once gluing up, be sure to clamp cautiously to circumvent twist, and confirm diagonal measurements to ensure that the frame stays square.


Here's a great feature of this approach.


Notice how the procedure ensures a perfectly sized case.


Because the case isn't constructed yet, and the parts are still oversize, I can now rabbet the front edge of the case sides, cut grooves in the rear of the frame stiles, and then dry-fit the two to find the exact length of all the case's crosspieces.


Also, this case-to-frame joinery is easier to execute than locating biscuits on a face frame, and it's much robuster and more manageable to glue up than a straightforward butt joint in the the case and frame.


Still, it's vital to locate the grooves in the back of the frame cautiously so the frame ends up 1 /32 -inch proud of each side, for planing flush later.


To ensure a snug fit and precise placement of the groove, I cut test joints in scrap stock.


With the case-to-frame joinery cut, you can utalize the frame to find the exact sizes of all the case parts, and locate the dadoes in them.


After squaring the bottom of each side, dry-fit them to the face frame, mark their height and width, and then cut them to size on the tablesaw.


The face frame likewise serves as a reference for sizing and locating the bottom shelf and the rails across the top.


With the sides cut to size and once again dry-fit into the face 
frame, I locate the dadoes that will hold the bottom shelf, to ensure that it ends up perfectly level with the frame's lower rail.


Once these dadoes are cut, I go ahead and rabbet the back edges of the case sides to accept the back.


Then, I dry-fit the frame and sides again to measure for the bottom shelf's length.


Once the shelf is cut to length and dry-fitted, you can mark and then rip it so it ends at the rabbet.


The screw rails that support the case's top are joined to the sides with a pair of shouldered through-dovetails at each end.


Working with the frame, sides, and bottom all dry-fit lets me to rapidly fit the shoulders very precisely with no measuring or even marking.


I begin with the rails about 1 /16 inch longer than the outside width of the case.


This will leave about a 1 /32 -inch overhang on each side that will be simply pared with a chisel.


Utalizing a miter gauge and the saw's fence, make a shoulder cut on each end that you know is too short.


At the bandsaw, eliminate just enough of both cheeks to let you butt against the shoulder for testfitting.


Now you can sneak up on the fit by moving the fence farther away from the blade in small increments and recutting the shoulders until the rail drops in place.


For accuracy's sake, ensureyou are fitting right behind the face frame.


Once the shoulder cuts are established, cut the cheeks utalizing a tenoning jig or a high fence.


Now you can cut the tails and simply lay out the mortises in the tops of the sides.


As a last step prior to glue-up, drill the shelf-pin holes


Finishing


The case glue-up is another stage where having an assembled frame is a distinct advantage.


Keeping the case parts together while glue-up can be a 
challenging exercise in positioning cauls and shifting clamps.


Yet the tongue-and-groove connection to the frame helps to keep each item aligned and eliminates a lot of fussing.


I begin by dry-fitting the top screw rails in place and then gluing the bottom into the case sides.


Then I immediately dry-fit the frame to the sides to help keep them parallel prior to putting the assembly in clamps.


Then I glue in the screw rails at the top.


Once the glue is dry, I eliminate the face frame, apply glue, and reattach it to the case.


Once the assembly comes out of clamps, I utalize a plane, scraper, and sanding block to bring the face-frame stiles flush with the case sides.


Confirm often to ensurethe curves stay square, especially at the bottom where the cove molding will be attached.


Once this work is done, you are ready to add the base and top.









Book 2
How to Build Cabinets and Shelves
Alessandro Pecoraro







Chapter 1 How to build a book rack
Years ago, while I was researching on Arts and Crafts designs, I came across with a book rack that's shorter than most bookcases, with slats that form a V-fashioned trough to hold books spine up. Its D-fashioned handholds make it easy to move. I've made a dozen racks based on that design, from small desktop types to extra-tall ones that hold books. I've likewise modified Stickley's design. Straightforward through-tenons substitute the wedged tenons. I added a second V-fashioned trough in the middle to make the rack more practical, and I tapered the end panels, reflecting the look of the Roycroft designs that I favor. Despite the changes, the book rack retains its Arts and Crafts character. This version, made from quartersawn white oak, is sized to sit in a couple of chairs.
How to make the end panels


Since the end panels are the focal point, you want boards with maximum figure.


Utalize single wide boards if you have them, or edge-glue narrower boards.


While the panels are drying, make a router template from ¼-inch medium-density fiberboard (MDF) or plywood, which you'll utalize to cut slots for the shelf mortises.


The template simplifies building in several ways.


It locates the shelf mortises, of course.


I clamp the template to the inside face of one end piece and the outside face of the other, it ensures that the mortises will line up.


Once laying out the slots in the template, all you have to do is draw the dimensions for the ¾-inch-thick shelves and cut a slot that wide.


Once utalizing those slots to cut the through-mortises, utalize a bit and guide bushing.


The offset in the bit and bushing equals the width of the tenon shoulders.


I get a mortise the right width, in the right location.


To circumvent tearout once routing through-mortises, I 
work from one face toward the middle, without popping out the other side.


So I rout the bulk of the mortises with the guide bushing, and then utalize a flushtrimming bit from the other side to finish them cleanly.


Make the template 11½ inch wide by 29 inch long.


Draw the panel side tapers, handle, and lower arch.


Then draw rectangles representing the full size of the ends of the narrow V-shelves and the wide bottom shelf.


With the template drawn, draw layout lines ¼ inch from each end of the V-shelf rectangles.


For the bottom shelf, draw layout lines 1 inch from the ends.


These define the begining and stopping points for the shelf mortises.


To cut the mortise slots, clamp a shopmade fence jig flush with the long side of each shelf outline and plunge cut from one line, then with a router and a ¾-inch bit.


Cut out the handle and bottom arch with a jigsaw, then smooth the curves and clean up the sawmarks with sandpaper









How to cut the mortises


Then, I mill all the oak shelves to size and cut the glued-up end panels to length.


Nevertheless, I won't taper the panels until I've completed making all the cutouts with the router.


I make the mortises and cutouts on one panel at a time.


Rather than clamping them together and cutting each item at once, I set up the template so that the panels are oriented as copies, not mirror images.


In other words, the template goes on the outside face of the left-hand panel yet on the inside face of the right-hand panel.


Register the template to the side and bottom of the end panel.


You can utalize a long scrap of wood as a fence to help align the template with the side.


Clamp the assembly to the bench and mark a small dot on the bottom of the right foot.


You'll utalize that mark to reference how you laid out the panel.


Set up the router and bushing.


The ¾-inch-wide slots in the template will produce a ½-inch-wide mortise in the oak, utalizing a ¼-inch spiral bit and a ½-inch bushing.


You could likewise utalize a ⅜-inch bit and a ⅝-inch bushing.


Nevertheless, the smaller bit leaves a tiny ridge dead-center in the groove, which comes in handy later on.


Rout the outlines for the D-fashioned handle, the lower arch, and the shelf mortises in several passes.


Don't cut all the way through.


Once the cuts are about ⅝ inch deep, stop and eliminate the template.


Utalize a jigsaw to eliminate most of the waste from the handle and the lower arch.


Drill a hole through each shelf mortise.


This is where you can utalize that ridge left by the ¼-inch 
bit. I like to utalize it to center a 1 /16 -inch-dia. pilot hole.


Then I flip the panel over and enlarge the pilot hole with a 3 /32 -inch bit.


This gives me a begining place for the router bit I utalize then.


Flip the panel over, and finish all the cuts with a ⅜-inch flush-trimming bit.


I chuck the bit in a laminate trimmer.


It's easy to control and lets me simply see what I'm doing.


These extra steps guarantee that you won't have any tearout.


Square up the mortises with a chisel, working from each face toward the middle to circumvent tearout.


Finish the panels by tapering the sides on the bandsaw, cutting just to the waste side of the line.


I clean up the cuts with a router, utalizing my shopmade edge guide and a straight bit









How to cut the tenons


The through-tenons on the shelves venture ¼ inch from the side panels.


They have narrow shoulders on their wide faces, and deep shoulders on the sides.


The shoulders hide certain imperfections and make glue-up much easier.


I cut the tenons on the tablesaw, defining the shoulders with a combination blade to minimize tearout, then switching to a stacked dado set to finish.


You should purposely make the shoulder cuts a hair too deep, which avoids a ridge at the inside corner that you'd have to clean out later.


Trade the combination blade for a stacked dado set to finish the tenons.


Cut the wide cheeks first.


Set the blade low and raise it gradually through a series of cuts to sneak up on the appropriate tenon thickness.


Test the fit after each cut.


Once that first tenon fits the mortise just right, cut the rest.


Follow the same procedure to cut all the short cheeks.


Then, chamfer the ends of the tenons.


Mark a line 7/32 inch from the ends, then plane to that line at roughly a 45 degree angle.


Plane the long edges first, and then plane the short edges.


Lastly, soften the remaining sharp edges of the shelves and side panels with a ¼-inch roundover bit in the router.









Finishing


Dry-fit the piece.


The tenons should slip into their mortises with hand pressure.


If you need a mallet, the joints are too tight and you'll need to pare down the tenons with a shoulder plane or a coarse file.


Smooth the pieces with a random-orbit sander, finishing with P180-grit.


Then hand-sand all the pieces with P180-grit paper, working with the grain, to minimize any sanding swirls.


I like to do certain of the finishing prior to assembly, once the pieces are easy to handle.


To keep finish off the tenons, I wrap them with ½-inch masking tape.


For a straightforward finish, I like Minwax Early American 230 stain followed by clear shellac or varnish, which looks remarkably like one of Stickley's original finishes.


After the stain has dried, glue up the piece.


If you get any squeeze-out, let it dry, and then peel it off.


In keeping with the Arts and Crafts tradition, I utalize shellac as a topcoat.


I normally brush on six or seven coats of Zinsser SealCoat thinned to a 1-lb. cut.


After the shellac has cured, I rub out the piece with mineral oil and 0000 steel wool, giving the piece the satin sheen typical of this style of furniture.


The finish should provide plenty of safeguard.









Chapter 2 How to build a Wall Cabinet
I made this nice little wall-hung cabinet to hold equipment, yet it could simply find a spot inside a home and hold small knickknacks. What's interesting about this venture is the uncommon way I build the case. The procedure is efficient, and it yields a robust and very eye-catching piece with a lot of room for design variations.
High level overview


The main joints are sliding dovetails, which are rock-solid and simply made with a tablesaw and router.


Utalizing sliding dovetails forces me to inset the top and bottom of the cabinet, yet that works to my advantage, as you'll see.


Also, I utalize an unusual face-frame variation, which blends more seamlessly with the case.


Fundamentally, I cut a deep rabbet in the front edges of the case and glue the stiles into that rabbet.


That leaves the glueline very close to the corner, where I can disguise it simply with a chamfer, a bead, or a bit of banding, for a variety of looks.


The rails are added later, simply glued to the top and bottom of the case.


These likewise act as blocking for any moldings you want to add.


You might ask, why have a face frame at all?


The first reason is that the sides are thin and a face frame lets you to create whatever thickness looks best at the front edges.


Also, it lets you run through-dadoes for the shelves.


Without a face frame, you would have to cut stopped dadoes to create a clean look at the front.


Lastly, it is easier to cut hinge mortises in the face-frame stiles while they are loose than it is to cut them in the sides themselves.


The design is best for hanging cabinets, yet it works for floor-standing cabinets as well.


The part of the sides that extends above the sliding 
dovetails can be as short as ¾ inch and hid behind a molding.


Or an overhanging top can be added.


I often add a banding under the crown molding to serve as a transition in the the molding and the case.


It might seem like an unusual place to begin, yet to get the cabinet width and the length of the top and bottom pieces, I need to know this banding length.


The idea is to end up with a uniform black square on each end of the banding.


So after I ripped up the black and white pieces ebony and holly on the tablesaw, I laid out the sandwich and then used it to tick off the full banding length on a story stick.


Then, to get the width of the cabinet, I had to subtract the slight overhang of the banding.


Last, I marked the length of the crosspieces on the story stick.


Because the dadoes and dovetails are the same depth, you can cut the shelves, top, and bottom to the same length with the same setup.









How to cut the joinery


Begin with the sides of the case. Leave them a bit long and tape them together.


Mark the completed length of the sides and lay out the dadoes for all the cross pieces even the sliding dovetails begin out as dadoes.


After cutting those dadoes, move to the router table to turn the dadoes for the top and bottom of the case into sliding dovetails.


The then step is to cut the dovetail keys on the top and bottom of the case.


Run both sides of the dovetail past the bit, and creep up on a nice fit.


The dovetail key should slide partway in with just a small amount of pressure.


Now you can rabbet the sides and notch the top and bottom of the case for the face-frame stiles.


Plane the stiles to fit perfectly later


You can put any type of back into a cabinet like this, yet I utalize a three-piece solid-wood back, shiplapped together.


This lets me distribute the wood movement over four gaps instead of two.


It likewise lets me to add a bead to the joints that looks great inside the cabinet.


I beveled the edges to fit into a small groove in the sides and top, making the back look like a raised panel.


Finishing the shelves


Now you can complete the shelves.


They've been cut to final length, yet should still be a little thick.


Take time now to plane them by hand or power to fit their dadoes.


I add a vertical divider under the bottom shelf.


That lets for two small drawers, or one drawer and an open shelf.


Note that the bottom dado for the divider doesn't extend all the way to the front, so it must be a stopped cut, made with a router.









Gluing up


Ensureall the parts are marked clearly so you know where they go and which end is which.


Utalize just a small amount of glue on the beginning of the dovetail slot and key.


Too much will cause the joint to swell and bind.


Confirm the case with a square as you assemble it.


Finishing


There are lots of ways to finish off the top of a wall cabinet.


It needs something; otherwise, it looks too much like a box.


I used a cove molding, with that little banding just below it.


One advantage of this case building is the extra pieces that stick up beyond the sliding dovetail to give it strength.


They are the perfect place to clamp those moldings.


They were so short that I wasn't worried about cross-grain movement.


With a deeper cabinet, I might screw them on from the inside, running the back screws through slotted holes.


Of course, the front molding can always be glued on with no issues.


You can utalize any technique you like for the door, drawer, and even the back of the cabinet.


This approach to building is very versatile, and works for cabinets of all sizes with all kinds of molding and decoration.









Chapter 3 How to build a Vanity Cabinet
Cruising at a country flea market one weekend, I came across a vendor selling interesting architectural fragments. There were stained-glass panels, doors, and certain odd lengths of ornate moldings. What really made me interested, was a bathroom wall cabinet of Victorian vintage. It was straightforward and graceful, with a soaring cornice and nearly perfect proportions. Amazingly, it still wore its original finish. Over the years the cabinet had advanced a deep, rusty color and a wonderful patina, punctuated by a brass Victorian cupboard latch. This was a piece worth copying.
High level overview


I took certain measurements and then returned to my shop to draw up plans for a similar piece.


This cabinet is the result. I made it out of quartersawn white oak.


The ray-fleck grain patterns give a nice flair to the straightforward lines of the cabinet.


What's really nifty is how the mirrored door is made.


I assembled the parts with slip tenons, nothing revolutionary, but prior to cutting the joinery, I rabbeted the pieces for the mirror.


This technique creates half-lap joints and a perfectly square recess for the mirror without any need for chisel work in the curves.


This piece is a prevalent class at my school, and I understand why.


It doesn't take long to build, and it adds a handmade touch to any bathroom.


Case joinery


The joinery is really straightforward, and it's all done at the tablesaw utalizing a dado set.


Nevertheless, all the joints are visible, so ensurethey're clean and tight.


Once the case joinery is done, utalize a bandsaw to cut out the arc on the bottom of each side.


This arc gives the cabinet a slimmer look and provides more clearance to reach items stored on the bottom shelf.


Plane and sand all the parts, then you're ready to glue up the case.


After assembly, drill for the shelf pins that will support the adjustable shelves.


To ensure the shelf-pin holes were aligned side to side, I made a drilling template out of ¼-inch-thick plywood.


I clamped it to one side of the cabinet, drilled the holes, and then slid it to the other side to drill the others.


How to cut the cove


Making your own molding is a great way to add a custom touch.


Most can be done with a router, yet the cove molding for this piece is too large for standard bits, so I used a slick technique on the tablesaw.


I passed the stock over the spinning blade at an angle, guiding it in the two fences clamped to the saw top.


You don't need a complex formula to determine the angle of the fences.


Simply raise the blade to the full height of the cut and angle the stock until the ends of the arc align with the leading and trailing teeth of the blade.


Now clamp the two fences on either side of the stock, raise the blade to about 1/16 inch, and run the stock over it.


Raise the blade in 1/16 -inch increments with each pass.


As you approach the completed profile, take smaller, 1/32 -inch bites, which will leave a rather smoother exterior that will be easier to clean up.


After finishing the cove profile, make a series of 45 degree edge cuts on the tablesaw.


These cuts venture the cove molding at a 45 degree angle from the cabinet, which looks eye-catching and presents a solid and stable exterior for installation.









How to pre build the miters


Most people fit and miter cornice moldings right on the case, yet it can be hard to get gap-free miters.


I preassemble the moldings, ensuring that the curves are tight, and then attach the entire assembly to the case.


Attaching an assembled cornice lets me build it square with tight miters, and then coax it into position.


The cornice requires a compound-angle miter.


It's common to make this cut with a tablesaw or compound-miter saw.


With the tablesaw you need to angle both the workpiece and the blade; with the compound-miter saw you need to angle the blade in two directions and find a way to support the molding.


Once again, I have an easier way. I cut the miters on a straightforward chopsaw, with the workpiece nestled in a cradle that holds it at the correct angle.


After mitering and attaching the crown, fit the back panel and French cleat.


Designing the mirrored door


I could have made a traditional door frame, with mortise and-tenon joints, and then routed out a rabbet for the mirror.


Yet routing the rabbet after assembling the door often results in tearout once you change direction.


It likewise can be hard to support the router on the frame without tipping, which leads to a bumpy or wavy cut.


You have to square up the curves with chisels afterward. Instead, I cut the rabbets for the mirror in the rails and stiles first, and I joined the parts utalizing slip tenons.


This gives me a robust door with a perfectly square rabbet for the mirror.


For an easy door installation, I chose Horton's non-mortised hinges.


Once installed, these hinges allow a generous 1 /16 -inch reveal.


After cutting the door to size, allowing 1 /16 inch spacing all around, you have to cut a 3 degree back bevel on the hinge side/edge of the door to give clearance for the door to open and close without binding.


Once the door is hung, fit the pantry latch and strike, and then the door stop. Now cut the mirror and cardboard backing to fit the door rabbet.


Then cut and screw the plywood backing over those pieces.


For the finish, you need to select something that will hold up in a steamy environment.


I warmed the oak with amber shellac, and then sprayed the cabinet with lacquer.


If you don't have a sprayer, any wipe-on varnish or oil/poly mixture will work.









Chapter 4 How to build a traditional Hutch
Being a furniture maker, it's always tough to find time to build a piece for my own use. Yet we always wanted a cupboard to store our collection of dinnerware, so I relented and spent what little spare time I had building a cupboard that fits not just the space obtainable in our dining room yet likewise the overall decor. The design of the piece I will discuss now germinated while I was building a large cupboard for a client. That piece was twice as wide as this version, and was made of maple with a rather plain frame-and-panel façade. I wanted something a little smaller, with more flair. Therefore I scaled down the size and revised a few particulars to enliven the piece. This version is made mostly of cherry, stained to a deep reddish-brown for an aged look. You can leave the cherry natural, and it will darken over time. The glass doors showcase our prized plates and glassware, and are easy to make on the router table. The beaded, painted back slats add texture and contrast, while the custom hand-forged door hinges contribute to the classic feel.







Lower case assembly


The lower case of the cupboard consists of a frame-and-panel bottom, back, and sides.


The legs do double duty as the stiles of the frame-and-panel assemblies.


As such, there are a number of mortises and grooves to be cut into each leg, as well as mortises for the front stretchers.


The legs likewise are notched for the bottom and the drawer guides.


For strength, the shelf sits in grooves in support members that likewise are mortised into the legs.


Taken individually, the lower case assemblies are relatively straightforward to construct.


After dry-fitting each item together, begin assembling the back of the lower case.


Don't forget to add the rear shelf support prior to gluing on the last leg.


Set it aside to dry, then glue up the bottom frame-and panel assembly.


Put together the front top and bottom stretchers and the drawer divider, and attach them and the lower front apron to the front legs.


Confirm often for square.


After the glue in the front, back, and bottom assemblies is dry, make up the drawer-guide assembly and glue it to the bottom stretcher.


Glue the case bottom to the apron.


Place the back assembly on the bench, add the shelf and its side supports glue the shelf to the rear support only, then glue in the top and bottom side rails and slide in the side panels.


Once these two assemblies are dry, drop the case front and bottom assembly onto the rear assembly utalizing the dadoes in the bottom side rails as guides.


Drive the parts home with a mallet, then lift the case onto its legs and add clamps.


Once the glue has dried, finish building the drawer system and cut the slots for the buttons that will secure the top to the lower case.


Once that's done, you can make and fit the doors and drawers and cut and fit the top.


Upper case assembly


A cupboard is intended to hold stacks of plates and other dinnerware, which can put great demands on the structure.


For maximum strength, the top and sides of the upper case are dovetailed together, and the shelves mate with the sides via tapered sliding dovetails.


The tapered pins and slots add strength through the wedging action and make it easy to slide the shelves home without binding while glue-up.


After cutting the dovetail joint that connects the top to the sides, rout rabbets in the top and sides for the back panel frame and the front face frame.


Stop the cuts short of the ends on the top piece to avoid an unsightly gap in the curves once the pieces are put together.


Square up the curves after the case has been glued up.


Now lay out the shelf locations so that they will line up with the horizontal muntins in the glass doors.


Set up a fence for the router to cut the dovetail slots and adjust the fence so that the slot tapers toward the front of the case.


Cut the tapered pins on the shelves utalizing a router table, working one shelf at a time to allow for any differences in the slot widths.


After cutting the pins on the shelves, rout a stopped groove in each one for a plate rail, which is handy if you simply want to display fancy plateware.


Now glue up the top and sides of the upper case and slide in the shelves.


Once that is complete, build the front face frame, which will hold the glass doors, and the back assembly, which is rudimentaryally a series of shiplapped boards that float in a 
frame to allow for expansion and contraction.


The case is topped off with a straightforward crown molding cut on the tablesaw.









Adding a glass door


To streamline building, the frame of the glass doors in the upper case is assembled with loose mortise-and-tenon joints.


Mill the rails and stiles to size, cut the mortises and tenons, then rout the profile on the inside edges.


To shape the profile on the frame and the muntins, I used a divided-light door router-bit set from CMT.


The set has a sticking bit to cut the profile, a cope bit to shape the mating profile on the muntin and rail ends, and a rabbeting bit to cut the recesses for the glass panes.


To make routing the narrow muntin stock safer, I did a few things.


First, I routed the ovolo profile on wider stock, and then ripped the pieces to width.


To rout the rabbets on the back of the thin muntins, I mounted the pieces in a cradle, simply a 3½-inch-wide piece the same thickness as the muntin stock, with one edge fashioned in the negative image of the ovolo profile.


The cradle holds the piece securely and keeps my fingers clear of the rabbeting bit.


To hold the thin stock for coping, I used a sled that rides in the miter slot of the router table.


The muntin is clamped in the fence and a backer board to avoid tearout as the bit exits the cut.


Once you have completed the entire profiling, chop the mortises in the stiles and rails and the vertical muntin utalizing a hollow-chisel mortiser or chisels.


Once the frame is glued together and the door is fitted to the opening, add the glass panes, securing them with brads and glazing putty.


I used hand-forged iron butterfly hinges, which can be a bit tricky to install.


I align the bottom edge of the hinge with the inside edge of the top or bottom rail.


Lay the hinge backward on the stile with the back flap on the edge of the stile and the back side of the butterfly flap 
facing out on the face side of the stile.


Locate the center hole and fit a screw, making sure that the butterfly flap is still flat on the stile.


Eliminate the screw, and place the hinge in the normal position, reinstall the screw, and then scribe around the back flap.


Chop in the hinge mortise and fit the rest of the screws.


If done correctly, the back side of the butterfly flap should be in the same plane as the door and stile face.


Finishing


For final sanding, first wet the piece to raise minor dents that happened while building.


Powersand to P180-grit, wet the piece again to raise the grain, then hand-sand with P150 and P180 grits.


To add an antique patina, I used 100 drops of TransTint dark walnut #6005 dye per 1 pint of denatured alcohol as a washcoat, followed by General Finishes candlelight stain and several coats of Minwax Antique Oil and wax.


The back panel and upper case interior are painted an ivory color.









Chapter 5 How to build cabinet doors
Doors are what we see once we look at a cabinet. Thanks to their relatively large exterior area, they're the most visible component in numerous ventures, and they will make a lasting impression if you design them cautiously and thoughtfully. In addition to looking good, doors must function properly. A well-made door opens with little resistance, closes without clatter or fuss, and has a comfortable pull that fits the hand. Begin by choosing the style of door you want: overlay, rabbeted, or flush. After that, it's a design exercise in proportioning components cautiously, choosing the appropriate joinery, and understanding wood movement. This guide covers frame-and-panel doors, the most prevalent type, used in many furniture styles and periods. Certain of the design reviewations, nevertheless, likewise apply to slabstyle plank doors and veneered doors.







Procedure


Because doors are the focal point of many pieces, it's vital to proportion them so they will work in harmony with each other and with other case components.


People often make doors and their case openings too wide or, less commonly, too tall.


Whenever possible, divide the case opening into reasonable sections and build the doors to suit.


For fine furniture and cabinets, there are three main options.


Flush and rabbeted doors are seen in contemporary as well as period furniture.


Overlay doors are used most often in kitchen and bathroom cabinets.


Each style has certain pluses and minuses once it comes to fitting and mounting.









Mounting Options


For fine furniture and cabinets, there are three main options.


Flush and rabbeted doors are seen in contemporary as well as period furniture.


Overlay doors are used most often in kitchen and bathroom cabinets.


Each style has certain pluses and minuses once it comes to fitting and mounting.


FLUSH DOORS


These require the most attention while fitting because the doors hang inside the face of the case.


They call for discloses of 1/16 inch or less in the the door and case opening.


FULL OVERLAYDOORS


These cover the entire face of the cabinets.


Circumvent uneye-catching partial-overlay doors, which are used in factory-made cabinets because they require no fitting.


Panel Profiles


Flat panels offer straightforwardness and are a hallmark of Shaker work.


Raised panels are more traditional.


Rabbets or bevels can be situated on the back to keep the front plain.


As a rule, keep the panel flush with or below the exterior of the frame.


RABBETED PANEL


Profiled on front or back and intended to be flush with the 
frame.


Or, it can be the same thickness as the frame and rabbeted equally front and back.


THIN, FLATPANEL


Essentially the same thickness as the groove in the frame.


Made from plywood or MDF, or glued up from narrower solid stock.









Frame Edge Profiles


Edges offer a chance for you to be creative by cutting different profiles or applying a molding.


This is typically done to the inside edge of the frame, though rabbeted doors normally have a thumbnail or roundover profile on their outside edge.


BEAD WITH QUIRK


Make bead ⅛ inch to ¼ inch wide with a 1 /16 -inch quirk.


Cut it on the router table or shaper.


Requires a mitered frame so the bead is constant.


APPLIED MOLDING


Use stock ¼ inch to ½ inch thick, profiled on a router table or shaper.


Glue to frame and panel if panel is sheet goods; otherwise, glue just to frame.


Options for Corner Joints


Doors with solid-wood panels get their strength mainly from the corner joints in the frame; a glued-in plywood or MDF panel adds reviewable rigidity.


The time-honored mortise-and-tenon joint is quite common, yet the type of joint you utalize will depend on the look you want and the strength you need, as well as the ease of building.


Here are nine great options.


HAUNCHED TENON


Avariation on the rudimentary mortise-and-tenon joint that's easier to make.


Both stiles and rails are grooved their full length for the panel.


The tenon is cut with a step, or haunch, on one side that fills the groove in the stiles.









MITERED MORTISE AND TENON


Another variation on the rudimentary joint.


The inside edges of the stiles and rails are mitered after the mortise and tenon are cut.


The miter makes it easy to mold a constant profile along the inside edge.


BISCUITJOINT


Biscuits don't yield an especially robust joint.


Make the rails at least 3 inch wide to accept #20 biscuits, and utalize two biscuits for maximum strength.


Best with a glued-in plywood panel for added strength.


COPE AND STICK


Matched router bits cut mating profiles in the inside edges of the stiles and rails.


Easy to make yet not especially robust, it may need reinforcement with a floating tenon or a plywood panel glued into the grooves.









Hinge Options


Well-made hinges installed with care will yield a door that swings smoothly and closes simply.


Be sure to select the correct type of hinge for the style of door you're hanging.


Buy quality hardware:


Look for solid castings or extrusions, thick leaves, and knuckles that pivot smoothly without play.


EXTERIOR HINGE


The easiest type to install.


Used for flush and rabbeted doors.


EXTERIOR HINGE FOR RABBETED DOORS


One leaf is bent to accommodate the offset.


Installation is a snap.









STRAIGHT KNIFE HINGE


Used for overlay doors where the case top and bottom extend over the sides.


Requires cautious mortising of case and door.


OFFSET KNIFE HINGE


Used for flush doors.




Requires cautious mortising of both case and door.


Glass Door options


Glass doors dress up a cabinet and add a practical touch, because you can see what's inside.


Utalize translucent or textured glass if you want to light up the inside without revealing specifically what's there.


There are several options once it comes to rabbeting the door to accept the glass.









Chapter 6 How to make frame and panel doors
This past summer, while the remodeling of my kitchen, I was faced with the task of making 27 cabinet doors. I required speed and straightforwardness, so I broke out my router table and a set of cope-and-stick router bits. These bit combinations allow you to rout door frames rapidly, in two steps. The first bit routs a profile and panel groove on the inside edge of all the frame parts. The second bit is a mirror image of the first, routing a coped profile and a stub tenon on the ends of the frame rails. What you create is not a traditional mortise-and-tenon joint. Yet done right, it gives you a cabinet door that's just as robust. The key is to utalize a flat panel of plywood or medium-density fiberboard (MDF) that's glued in place not a raised panel, which is intended to float. All in all, I was able to build all 31 doors in the course of a weekend, from milling lumber to finish sanding. Different types of cope-and-stick bits are obtainable, with an array of profiles from straightforward thumbnails to more ornate ogees. In general, these bits are intended for ¾-inch-thick doors, yet there are cope-and-stick bits obtainable for stock ½ inch or thinner.







Begin with the stock


I began by milling the door-frame stock.


I favour quartersawn or rift-sawn boards because the tight, straight grain is both good-looking and stable.


It's vital that the stock be straight and square.


Any slight bow or twist will make fitting the door a nightmare.


Don't be tempted to flatten an entire wide board and then rip the frame parts from it; that will lead to bowed or twisted stock.


Instead, begin with rough-sawn 4/4 stock and rip the parts oversize on the bandsaw.


Crosscut the stock to eliminate any serious twist, bowing, or knots, yet keep it as long as possible to decrease the number of pieces you'll have to rout.


Then joint and plane the boards to final thickness, and rip to the exact width on the tablesaw.









How to route the edge profile


Now you can rout the edge profile on all of the door-frame pieces while they are still long.


Begin with the stick bit in your router.


Adjust the height until you produce a profile with a 1 /16 -inch fillet at the top.


A shallower fillet would create a weak upper portion of the joint and a deeper fillet would locate the panel groove too far toward the back, creating a thin rear wall.


Align the router-table fence specifically with the guide bearing on the bit.


Attach featherboards to hold the stock against the table and fence once routing.


If you're utalizing a smaller router or a very hard wood such as oak or maple, you may need to take two passes to reach final depth.


In that case, set up for a three-quarter-depth cut and rout all the stock prior to adjusting the fence for the final pass.


Removing the bulk of the waste on the first pass will yield a cleaner exterior on the second.


Crosscutting


Once the edges have been profiled, it's time to cut all the parts to final length.


Instead of a tape measure, I made a story stick to record the width and height of the case openings, along with the number of doors that fit in the opening.


For cases with two doors, I measured the width and marked the halfway point.


I then used the story stick to set up the tablesaw for crosscutting.


I begined with the stiles, which run top to bottom in the case opening.


First I clamped a stop block to the rip fence in front of the blade, to avoid the stile from binding in the the blade and the fence while cutting.


Then it was simply a matter of aligning the mark on the story stick with the blade and setting the fence so that the stop block was flush with the end of the stick.


Cut the stiles, making sure to mark the door number on each piece.


Cutting the rails to length is a bit trickier.


Because they fit in the the stiles, you must account not just for the width of the stiles yet likewise the depth of the stub tenons.


This can lead to certain headscratching, yet I found a straightforward technique that let me dispense with the math.


First, make a setup block that is equal to the width of the two stiles minus the depth of the panel grooves.


Utalize this setup block in conjunction with the story stick to rapidly dial in the right dimensions for the rails.


Because rails are typically short, utalize a stop block clamped to the crosscut-sled fence to set the length.


Again, align the mark on the story stick with the blade; then rest the setup block on the story stick flush with the end, and pencil a line on the sled to mark the end of the rail.


Clamp the stop block at the line and cut the rails.









End routing


With the parts cut to length, it's time to fit the coping bit and profile the ends of the rails.


Do not try to run these rails against the router-table fence without supplementary support; the pieces are too narrow to stay square against the fence.


Instead, utalize a straightforward plywood sled fitted with hold-down clamps to run the stock squarely and safely across the bit.


Yet prior to setting up the sled, cope the long edge of an extra piece of frame stock to make a special backing block.


This piece will marry with the profiled edge of the rail stock and avoid tearout.


Once the other end of the rail is routed, the trailing edge will be flat, and a flat backer block will suffice.


After the backing block is made, clamp an offcut in the sled and take a test cut.


Adjust the bit's height until the two pieces are flush and you're ready to cope the rails.


Begin with the flat edge against the sled fence and cope the first end.


Then rotate the rail, insert the backing block into the panel groove, and cope the second end.


How to undersize the panels


With the frames complete, all that's left to do is to size the panels. I made them 1 /16 inch narrower than the length of the rails.


This is to accommodate the slight amount of seasonal movement, and to ensurethe panel lets the frame parts to seat fully while glue-up.


The panels' length equals the stile length minus the setup-block length.


The MDF I used fit very snugly into the panel groove, so I knocked the panels' curves off rapidly with a block plane.


Unlike plywood, which is thinner than its nominal thickness, MDF measures out on the mark.


Gluing up cope-and-stick doors is a challenge.


One concern is that the stub tenons could slide along the panel groove, making it hard to glue up the parts square.


Or, the panel could fit so tight that it seizes up on contact with the glue, making it very hard to square up the parts.


Luckily, this procedure eliminates both potential issues.


I installed the panel in a stile groove first, then slid the rails on, and lastly, added the second stile.


To position the panel correctly, mark its location on the stile by holding a rail in place and marking the width of its tenon.


Apply glue along the panel grooves of the stiles only.


Then apply glue to the coped ends of the rails.


If there is glue in the rail grooves, they won't slide along the panel.


Fit the panel, making sure it's fully seated.


Then push a rail onto the panel, fully seating it, and slide it down onto the stile.


Fit the second rail in the same manner, utalizing the panel to align the rails parallel to each other and square to the stiles.


All that's left is to fit the last stile.


Once that's done, clamp along the entire joint.


Be cautious not to apply too much pressure across the panel, because it's rather narrower than the rails, and the stiles could bow inward.


Utalize a straightedge to ensurethe stiles are flat with the rails.


The short tenons provide little resistance against flexing upward.









Chapter 7 How to make bracket feets
Ogee bracket feet, often linked to the Chippendale style, have been around since the late seventeenth century, and they endure one of the most recognized forms in furniture. The idiosyncratic S-curve on the faces and the ornate profiles on the ends of the feet traditionally were made with hand equipment—a time-consuming, labor-intensive procedure. My technique blends the best of the new and old. I've substituted the molding planes with the tablesaw to rough out the ogee profile, and the bandsaw has substituted the coping saw for cutting the end profile. Nevertheless, machines can't substitute the scrapers and other hand equipment that are essential to refine those machinecut shapes.







Begin table sawing


The front pairs of feet normally are mitered.


To get the best possible grain match and flow, and for efficiency, begin with a long blank, milled to the right size.


You'll need a board long enough to make six pieces.


You'll likewise need enough stock to make the unfashioned portions of the rear pairs of feet, which are dovetailed together.


Often these unfashioned pieces were made of a secondary wood, because they were not seen.


The key to success is making a couple of full-size patterns out of ⅛-inch-thick plywood, which will guide both machine and handwork.


I utalize one pattern to draw the ogee profile on each end of the blank.


After the ogee shaping is complete, I utalize another pattern to lay out the miters and to draw the profile on the inside of the foot.


For speed and consistency, I shape the face of the long blank on the tablesaw, utalizing a cove-cutting technique.


This is done by passing the piece diagonally across the blade, guided by an auxiliary fence, and raising the blade a bit more for each pass.


You can utalize any straight material for the fence, as long as it's thick enough to support the workpiece.


The fence I made is simply two ¾-inch-thick strips of MDF.


After screwing the pieces together, I ripped both long edges straight.


I don't utalize a special blade for the cove cut; it's just a combination blade.


Because this cove cut is symmetrical, the blade will be perpendicular to the table an asymmetrical cove would require the blade to be tilted.


Begin by raising the blade to the apex of the cove, utalizing the pattern as the guide.


Now dial in the width of the cove by pivoting the auxiliary fence.


Place the end of the pattern against the fence.


To ensure accuracy, utalize the head of a combination square to keep the pattern 90 degree to the table and fence.


With your eyes level with the table, pivot the fence until the blade aligns with the cutout on the pattern.


Clamp the fence in place and make a test cut.


To do that, lower the blade so it ventures about 1 /16 inch above the table.


Make the first pass or two and then compare the cut to the pattern you traced on the end of the blank.


Because you're taking such light cuts, any errors in the setup are simply corrected by adjusting the fence as you go.


Continue making passes over the blade, raising it about 1 /16 inch at a time, until you're cutting the full depth of the cove.


Once the cove has been cut, it's time to create the convex portion of the foot on the blank.


This job is begined at the tablesaw, with the blank on edge.


Tilt the blade to eliminate the bulk of the waste in one pass.


Then readjust the blade angle to creep up on the layout line with smaller passes.


You'll end up with a faceted exterior.


How to shape the convex portion


Following the layout lines on the end of the blank, I clean up the machine marks on the blank and refine the curves.


To shape the convex portion, I utalize No. 5 jack and No. 4 smoother planes, gradually removing the tablesawn facets to create a smooth curve.


To smooth the concave area, I utalize a gooseneck scraper and sandpaper.


Lastly, I sand all the curves smooth.


Once the face is complete, you can begin cutting the individual feet from the blank and mitering them.


True to the period forms, I normally miter the front pairs of feet, yet I utalize half-blind dovetails in the rear pairs.


The dovetail is a robust way to join the thin, flat back piece to the fashioned piece.


To ensure a constant grain match around the feet on the front, it's vital to lay out the parts in pairs. Once laying out the parts, leave extra material on the straight-cut ends.


This will give you room to make test cuts until you have perfect-fitting miters.


Once the miters are cut, trim all the feet to their final length utalizing the inside profile pattern as a guide.


Now cut the dovetails in the rear pairs of feet: tails in the flat feet and sockets in the molded feet.


Don't glue any of the feet together yet.


How to profile the feet


Once the joinery is done, lay out and cut the inside profiles on the feet.


Utalize the full-size pattern to draw the design, and bandsaw close to the lines.


Now glue the feet together both the miters and the dovetails.


For the miters, I utalize clamping cauls that direct the clamping pressure to the curves. I likewise seal, or size, the porous end grain with glue prior to assembly.


The glue must dry completely to adequately seal the end grain; otherwise, the joint will be compromised.


It may seem counterintuitive to glue the feet prior to fairing the end profiles, yet doing so makes it easier to clamp the feet in a vise for the final shaping.


After the glue dries, fair the inside profile.


First, I eliminate most of the bandsaw marks with rasps and files.


Then I utalize gouges and chisels to back-cut the shapes at a slight angle.


The back-cut makes it easier to finesse just the visible portion of the profile in front with rasps and files.


I likewise break the inside edges by chamfering them with a chisel.


The final step is to add reinforcing corner blocks to the inside of the feet.


The blocks strengthen the miter and add to the overall glue exterior for attaching the feet to a base frame.


Here's a trick to circumvent a potential issue with cross-grain glue exteriors on the vertical section.


I cut a series of small glue blocks and stack them, alternating the grain direction of the blocks.


This creates a super-robust block assembly that will endure stable over time.


No need to clamp any of the glue blocks in place; a straightforward rub joint will do the trick.


After the glue dries on the blocks, I trim the vertical pieces flush, and then chisel a slight chamfer on the outside corner to ensurethe pieces can't be seen by any probing eyes.


Now the feet are ready to mount to the case.









Chapter 8 How to build drawers
Whether it's a tiny drawer in a jewelry box or the wide, deep drawer of a dresser, all drawers are little more than a box that slides into an opening. Yet there are nearly endless combinations of building practices that can be used to build that box. By understanding the various ways in which drawers are made, you'll be able to select the best building technique for your venture, with the ideal blend of beauty, strength, and efficiency. Drawers can be made of solid wood, plywood, or both. Drawer fronts often become the focal points of a piece, showing off spectacular figure, molded edges, or a handsome pull. The actual drawer front can be integral to the drawer, meaning that it is joined directly to the drawer sides, or it can be attached to a fully constructed drawer box. Joinery options at both the back and front can range from straightforward butt joints to classic hand-cut dovetails. Drawer bottoms can be made from solid wood or plywood. To size a drawer correctly, you need to know not just the size of the opening, yet likewise the depth of the inset. Drawers can be intended flush to, recessed into, or overlapping the front of the case. Different styles of furniture call for different types of drawers. While a plywood drawer with a false front makes sense in a shop cabinet, it would be quite out of place in a high-style eighteenthcentury reproduction. The joinery and supplies you select should fit the type of furniture you want to build. So should the way the drawer will slide in and out of its pocket. So let's begin there.
High level overview


Like all drawer decisions, drawer-slide options range from straightforward and efficient to finely handcrafted.


Traditionally, the sides of a wooden drawer slide directly on a wooden frame within the case.


Most drawers with integral fronts work well with this design because the drawer is sized and constructed to fit the opening.


Manufactured drawer slides have long been common on kitchen cabinets, yet they're being used more and more on high-end furniture today.


While frowned upon by some purists, contemporary slide designs fit rapidly and painlessly, and it's hard to find fault with their smooth action, soft-close mechanisms, and full-extension capcapability.


These slides can be side- or bottom-mounted, and are perfect for utalize with false-front drawers or drawers with sliding dovetails.


Each type of commercial slide has its own drawer requirements, so you'll have to build the drawer to accommodate the slides.


For instance, side-mounted slides normally require ½ inch of space on both sides of the drawer box.


If you're utalizing commercial slides, it's a great idea to have them on hand prior to you build either the case or the drawers.


Regardless of whether a drawer has an integral front or a false front, most pulling and racking stresses on a drawer box occur at the front curves; after all, a drawer is opened and closed by pulling and pushing on the front.


Any action that isn't straight in or out of the drawer pocket likewise causes racking stress, which hits the front-corner joints hardest.


For these reasons, front-corner joints should be as robust as possible and have certain mechanical reinforcement.


This mechanical connection can be as straightforward as pegs or pins in a rabbet joint, or it can be the interlocking strength of the classic half-blind dovetail.


While it's likewise important to have a sound mechanical joint at the back of the drawer, aesthetics are less of a concern because these curves are seldom seen.


For these reasons, rear-corner joints often are different from the front-corner joints.


If you are utalizing a machine setup to cut the front joinery, nevertheless, it makes sense to utalize those same setups to cut the back joinery.









Drawer bottoms


The choice of material and the design of the drawer bottom depend on the style of drawer you are building, whether it's a quick-and-dirty shop drawer or a drawer for an 18th-century secretary.


Both solid wood and plywood are commonly used for drawer bottoms.


Solid wood is the traditional choice, and aesthetically, it's hard to beat.


Yet you must allow solid wood to expand and contract with changes in humidity so that it doesn't cause the drawer to bind in its opening.


Plywood is a much more stable choice for a drawer bottom because it does not expand and contract with humidity changes as much as solid wood.


While reproduction builders and a few purists resist plywood bottoms, it's easy to argue their superiority.


A plywood bottom can be housed completely in grooves in the sides, back, and front, and glued in place to strengthen the drawer box.


Or it can be slid in from the rear and screwed to the drawer back, or even glued and nailed to the bottom of a drawer box with a false front









Chapter 9 How to build drawer pulls
Drawers are made to be opened and closed, and that means every drawer needs a pull. While attaching pulls is one of the last things you do once making a drawer, you can't wait until then to think about the style of pull you'll utalize and where on the drawer it will go. Because they are attached to the drawer fronts, pulls are highly visible and can have a dramatic effect on the beauty of a piece of furniture. There's plenty to say about which types of pulls go with which pieces, yet I will focus on where to put them. Placing a pull on a drawer front is not as straightforward as put it in the center. After all, it's not exactly clear how you center something like a pendant pull. Certain drawers need two pulls, which should be spaced so that they are comfortable to use. Then there is the visual pattern created by the overall array of pulls, and that is determined mostly by how you size and orient the drawers themselves. Once I begined to think about each item it takes to place pulls just right, I was overwhelmed. That's why I asked several successful furniture designers and makers for their advice. I didn't only learned certain great guidelines, but likewise that there are situations you'll have to take one at a time.
High level overview


Normally, pulls are centered vertically. How that is done depends on the pull's style.


Because their height is balanced above and below the point of attachment, place knobs and handles by centering their screw holes or tenons.


Nevertheless, a pendant or bail pull would appear low on the drawer if centered this way.


Instead, balance its overall outline above and below the drawer's centerline.


It's the same for every other pull type:


Think about the overall height, not just where the screw or tenon goes in.


Drawers less than 14 inch wide need just one pull because they are small enough to open and close by pulling or 
pushing on the center.


Drawers wider than 18 inch definitely need two pulls.


A single, centered pull would be stressed by the weight of the drawer, ultimately cautalizing it to break or break free of the drawer front.


Space pulls in the 18 inch and 22 inch apart, roughly the distance in the a pair of outstretched hands.


If the drawer is too narrow to space the pulls 18 inch apart, they should be separated by at least one-half of the drawer's width.


In the 14 inch and 18 inch is a gray area.


The choice in the one pull or two comes down to aesthetics.


Procedure


With two knobs on each of the small top drawers, this array looks tosb-heavy.


Centering a single knob on each small drawer balances the pattern.


It likewise brings the knobs on the top drawers closer together, creating two inward slanting diagonals, which suggests a solid base and upward movement.


A single, centered knob on the bottom drawer creates an inverted triangle and a tosb-heavy pattern.


Nevertheless, placing two knobs on the bottom drawer and aligning them under the knobs on the top drawers gives the array a more solid feel.


On a piece with multiple drawers, the number, size, and arrangement of the drawers affects how the pulls are arrayed.


You'll have a better chance of integrating the array into the overall design if you begin to think about drawers and pulls as soon as you begin to sketch out a piece.


I've made a lot of traditional furniture and I've learned the importance of getting the drawer and door pulls just right.


Luckily, you don't need to own a lathe to make the elegant turned pulls that are the hallmark of Shaker furniture, and you don't need to commission hand-hammered hardware every time you tackle an Arts and Crafts venture.


Instead, there's a really easy way to customize store-bought pulls, and I'll share a straightforward jig that will help you make your own classic pyramid pulls rapidly and safely.









Shaker pulls


The mass-manufactured piece is rough and rounded over.


A little sanding at the drill press reshapes it into a period-perfect Shaker pull.


You can get turned pulls in a variety of woods from most woodworking retailers.


They are a convenient option, yet the machine-duplicated profiles leave a lot to be desired.


Normally, they lack the crisp detail and graceful curves of a hand-turned pull.


They likewise tend to have heavy scratch marks and a nib at the center of the cap.


Lastly, the bounded size selection often forces you to select in the knob that's rather too large and one that's too small.


The great news is that it doesn't take special equipment or a lot of time to remedy any of these shortcomings.


All you need is a drill press and five minutes of sanding to change the profile or the diameter and to transform a generic pull into one suited for fine furniture.


A tenoned end-grain pull can be mounted directly in the drill-press chuck.


To mount a face-grain pull with a hole, cut the end off a bolt, chuck it onto the drill, and thread the knob in place.


Wrap coarse sandpaper around a dowel to establish the waist, then sand up to 600 grit prior to moving on to the base.


To shape and smooth the base, wrap the sandpaper around a small block to establish a flat face.


Sanding while the pull is spinning will outcome in rings or a nib at the center.


The trick to removing them is to stop the drill after every grit and sand across the cap by hand. Just a couple of strokes will do.


With the pull spinning, wipe on a thin coat of shellac; it will dry nearly instantly.


Burnish with wax and fine steel wool for a satin luster that's pleasing to the touch.









Pyramid pulls


You can buy square pulls, yet the profiles are typically rounded over, lacking the crisp facets that catch the light.


Also, the wood selection offers few choices of species or grain orientation.


You can do better on your own.


The trick, once working with any small part on power equipment, is to do it safely.


A straightforward jig solves the issue.


Not just is it easy to make, it's likewise a true multi-tasker.


Utalize it on the drill press to drill the screw hole and shape the waist.


Then move it to the tablesaw to bevel the top.









Procedure


Mill the stock to ⅞ inch thick and 1 ¼ inch wide.


Make the strip longer than you need and save the excess to make the jig at right.


A sliding stop is safe and precise.


Utalize the width of the blank to set the stop's distance from the blade.


Position the workpiece.


Hold the stop firmly in place while sliding the stock against it.


Slide the stop out of the way prior to making the cut.


This avoids the block from being trapped against the blade.


How to make a smart jig


This jig takes you through the rest of the steps.


Yet it's nothing more than two pieces of the leftover blank glued to a fence.


Set the spacing while glue-up.


Once assembling the jig, sandwich a blank snugly in the the two pieces to set the appropriate distance in them.


Secure the blocks with pins.


To avoid the blocks from sliding around while glue-up, you can drive 23 gauge pins into the inside face and clips them off just above the exterior.


Drill the mounting holes. Insert a blank facedown on the table with the center point marked.


Align the blank with the drill bit and clamp the jig in place.


Now all the mounting holes can be drilled after marking just a single blank.


A Forstner bit shapes the waist.


Fit a blank with its bottom toward the jig's fence and position the jig so that the bit is centered on the edge of the blank.


Drill the blank and rotate until all four sides are complete.


Set up the bevel cut.


Draw a center line on the jig, tilt the blade 22 degree, and 
adjust the rip fence until the blade cuts just to the line.


Once the setup looks right, insert the first pull.


Cut the facets.


Utalize a normal push stick on the jig and a straightforwardr stick to keep the pull in place throughout the cut.


Rotate the blank after each pass until all four sides are beveled.


Clamp a stop block to the crosscut sled and cut each edge of the base.


Place sandpaper on a flat exterior and rock the piece up onto one of its facets.


Keep it flat as you sand to maintain a crisp profile.









Glossary
Abrasive:
A coarse powder or a piece of paper or fabric coated with grit particles used to smooth wood.
Arbor:
A shaft driven by a stationary power tool motor to turn a revolving blade or other cutting implement.
Bearing:
A machined part located on a motor shaft, permitting the shaft to turn without friction.
Belt tension:
The measure of how tight a stationary power tool drive belt or abrasive belt is stretched across its pulleys.
Benchstone:
Any natural or synthetic sharpening stone used at the bench.
Bevel cut:
Sawing at an angle from face to face through a workpiece.
Blade heel:
Blade rotation that is not perfectly parallel to the fence of a table saw or the arm of a radial arm saw.
Blade set:
The amount that saw teeth are alternately offset to left and right, allowing a blade to cut a kerf rather wider than its own thickness to help prevent binding.
Blade tension:
The measure of how tight a band saw blade is stretched across its wheels.
Brushes:
A carbon or copper conductor that delivers current from the stationary element of an electric motor to the rotating coil.
Buffing:
Polishing a sharpened edge to a mirror-like finish utilizing a cloth or rubber wheel impregnated with fine abrasive compounds.
Burnisher:
A rod-like steel tool used to turn a lip on a tool edge, especially scraper edges.
Burr:
A small ridge formed on the flat face of a tool blade as a outcome of the honing procedure.
Cap iron:
A metal plate screwed to a plane blade, preventing chatter and the build-up of wood chips.
Carbide-tipped blade:
A saw blade on which the teeth are made of a compound of carbon and steel; such blade edges are stronger and stay sharper longer than conventional high-speed steel blades.
Chip lifter:
The machined exteriors on a Fortsner or multi-spur bit directly behind the cutters.
Chuck:
Adjustable jaws on a drill or drill press for holding bits or other accessories.
Collet:
The sleeve that grips the shank of a router bit.
Combination blade:
A circular saw blade intended for making both crosscuts and rip cuts.







Crosscut:
A cut made across the grain of a workpiece.
Dado head:
A blade, or combination of blades and chippers, used to cut dadoes in wood.
Dado:
A rectangular channel cut into a workpiece.
Dial indicator:
A measuring device with a magnetic base used to determine runout on stationary and portable power tools, typically calibrated in thousandths of an inch.
Drill point angle:
The angle to which a drill bit must be ground and sharpened for efficient cutting.
Drive belt:
Any rubber belt that connects a stationary power tool motor with its arbor or spindle, sometimes through a system of pulleys.
Drive center:
A lathe accessory mounted in either the tailstock or headstock to support turning work; can either be fixed or turn with the work by means of ball-bearings.
Feeler gauge:
A specifically ground metal blade, furnished in sets, used to accurately measure the gap between tool parts.
Fence:
An adjustable guide intended to keep the edge or face of a workpiece a set distance from the cutting edge of a tool.
Ferrule:
A metal ring that tightens around the end of a handle to prevent splitting.
Frog:
The part ofa hand plane that supports the blade; typically the frog can be moved back and forth to adjust the mouth opening of the plane.
Grinding:
The initial step in sharpening where nicks are removed, the cutting edge is squared, and the bevel is established; typically done on a bench grinder.
Gullet
The gap between teeth on a saw blade.







Honing:
The procedure of converting a rough-ground edge to a smooth, uniform cutting edge.
Hook:
A uniform burr turned on the cutting edges of a scraper.
Infeed:
The part of a machine's table that is in front of the blade while a cutting operation.
Kerf:
The space left when wood is removed by the saw blade.
Kickback:
The tendency of a workpiece to be thrown back in the direction of the operator of a tool.
Lapping:
Rubbing the face of a plane or chisel blade across a sharpening stone to eliminate the burr that results from honing the blade.
Microbevel:
A secondary bevel honed on the cutting edge of a blade.
Miter cut
A cut that angles across the face of a workpiece.
Oilstone:
Any natural or synthetic sharpening stone that uses oil as a lubricant.
Orbital action:
The up-and-forward movement of some saber saw blades on their upstroke; replaces the traditional straight up-and-down action of a reciprocating-type saber saw. Also, the eccentric motion of the abrasive disc on an orbital or random-orbit sander.
Out-of-round wheel:
A band saw wheel that is not perfectly round.
Outfeed:
The part of a machine's table that is behind the blade while a cutting operation.
Platen:
A support plate for sandpaper belts on sanders.
Positive stop:
An adjustable screw on a stationary power tool used to keep the tool's table at a set angle, typically 90' and 45'.
Quill:
A sleeve surrounding the spindle of a drill press; the amount that the quill can be raised and lowered determines the depth of hole a drill press can bore.
Raker:
A tooth in a saw blade that clears sawdust and wood chips out of the kerf.
Reverse thread:
A machined thread that tightens and loosens in the opposite direction to the rotation of the tool bit so that the cutter remains tight while operation.
Rip cut:
A cut that follows the grain of a workpiece-typically made along its distance.
Runout:
The amount of wobble in tool's arbor or spindle.
Sharp:
A cutting edge is said to be sharp where two flat, polished exteriors 
meet at an angle.
Slipstone:
A sharpening stone with curved edges used to sharpen gouges and other similarly fashioned tools.
Snipe:
A concave cut created by a jointer or planer at the end of a workpiece, the outcome of imappropriate pressure on the workpiece or inaccurately set table height.
Spindle:
The threaded arbor on a power tool that turns cutters and accessories.
Square:
Two exteriors of a workpiece that are at 90 degre to each other.
Stropping:
Polishing a sharpened edge to a mirror-like finish utilizing strips of leather impregnated with fine abrasive compounds
Tearout:
The tendency of a blade or cutter to tear the fibers of wood, leaving ragged edges on the exterior of the workpiece.
Teeth per inch (TPI):
A unit of measurement used to identify versions and uses of saw blades by the number of teeth per inch of blade distance.
Temper:
The degree of hardness in tool steel; also, the color of steel after the tempering procedure.
Tracking:
Adjusting a band saw blade or abrasive belt so that it is centered on the tool's wheels.
Waterstone:
Any natural or synthetic sharpening stone that uses water as a lubricant.
Wheel dresser:
A device used to true the working exterior of a grinding wheel and expose fresh abrasive.







Conclusion
Thank you for reading this book. Hope it was useful and able to provide you with a good knowledge base you will need to achieve your goals whatever they may be. Woodworking can be an extremely satisfying and possibly even life-changing interest! Producing artwork with wood can lead to skills you never knew you could have and maybe even fatten your wallet, and who wouldn't like that! Woodworking is as timeless as we are. It has been around since the beginning and is still a privileged skill.  The next step is to pick out a field you may want to try out. Consider the time you have to spend per project, the amount of funds you have to commit, and the work space you have or can build. This will help you hone in on a field or two to try out.  Start with the basics, and slowly build your skill set with repetition. Don't expect to have a lavish and perfect table the first time you make one. Instead have fun and try new methods or tools whenever you can. Or sharpen a particular set of skills and become a master! Take the first step and dive into woodworking! You won't regret learning this excellent skill. 
If you found this book valuable in any way, please don't forget to provide a review which I really appreciate in advance! 







About 
Alessandro Pecoraro
Alessandro Pecoraro is an Italian woodworking professional and furniture maker since 1997. His exceptional knowledge of woodworking is known and trusted in the field of woodworking. Alessandro was born and raised in Naples, Italy. Currently running a family business where he and his team provides custom made crafts and furniture.



