




Writing a Book Review









 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By Rebecca Graf
Argiletum Publication










@Argiletum 2015
 
No part of this book shall be copied without express written permission from Argiletum. This book is copyrighted and falls under local and federal protection.











Contents
Writing a Book Review
What is a Book Review?
It is an Opinion
It is a Critique
It's an Encouragement
Elements of a Book Review
Size
Summary
Analysis
Conclusion/Opinion
Disclaimer
Pictures/Links
Ratings
How to Review Fiction Books
Take Notes
The Plot
Characters
Dialogue
Style
Editing
Trigger Warnings
Spoiler Alerts
Ratings
Example of Fiction Book Reviews
How to Review Non-Fiction
Read the Book
Take Notes
Organization/Layout
Visual Aids
Bibliography/Table of Contents/Index
Writing Style
Credibility
Extras
Ratings
Examples of Non-Fiction Reviews
How to Review Audiobooks
Read...Listen to the Book
Dittos
Speaking Style
Examples of
AudioBook Reviews
How to Review Picture Books
The Story
Layout/Design
Quality of Pictures
Overall
Warnings
Examples of Picture Book Reviews
The Difference in Reviewing Ebooks and Print Books
Expectations from Print Books
Issues with Ebooks
Ethics and Etiquette
Read the Book
Paid Reviews
Honesty
ARCs
Negative Reviews
Note the Positive Aspects
Disclaimers
Where to Post Reviews
Own Site
Amazon
Goodreads
LibraryThing
Shelfari
Barnes and Noble
Other Sites
Periodicals
Reviewing Tips
Notebook/Journal
Praises and Criticisms
Review Template
Outside the Box
Networking
Taking it to the Next Level
 










Review:
 
An act of carefully looking at or examining the quality or condition of something or someone: Examination or inspection: A report that gives someone's opinion about the quality of a book, performance, product, etc.











What is a Book Review?












Some things, one may believe, are pretty in terms of being explained and answered: They make perfect sense without detailed explanations. For instance, there may be something you use every day or is just part of your life, and it simply doesn't need explanation. It just is because it is so simple and not complicated at all. That is until you start to explain it, and then you find that it is not as easy as you originally thought.
 
So, what is a book review?
 
It's a review of a book. Okay, and that is....? It's what I thought of the book. Very true, but it could be so much more. A real book review is much more complicated than that. It goes much further than just saying if a book was enjoyable for not. It gives an explanation so the reader of the review can determine if your opinion should be factored in their decision to purchase and/or read the books.
 
A book review is a powerful tool that should be wielded with extreme caution and pride. It can go so much farther than a mere statement of liking or disliking a book. It explores a book in a way to help both potential readers and the author. It digs down into characters, plot, and more.
 
Simple yet not quite so simple.
 
It can also be defined by looking at what a book review is not. It is by far not....
 

A means to be mean to the author and/or readers
A place to market your own books
The method to get even with an author
The only opinion out there











It is an Opinion
 

 

 
This is the obvious answer to what a book review is. It is as a whole an opinion you are giving on the book you have read. Did you enjoy it? Did you dislike it? What did you think about the book? If you could sum up what a book review is in just a word, it would be opinion.
Now keep in mind that an opinion is not a fact. It might be a fact about how you felt, but remember that doesn't mean it is a fact with everyone else. If you love a certain genre, style, or storyline, it doesn't mean everyone else will agree with you.
"Charles Dickens was a great author." However, one individual making this statement does not make it a fact. Even though his works are classics and are quoted around the world, his greatness is just an opinion. If everyone hated his work, they wouldn't be classics.
But that doesn't mean that your opinion is not valuable.
The great thing about book reviewers is the followers they develop who do agree with their opinions. As you get a number of reviews out there, readers will begin to follow your reviews. Why? Because you have the same tastes. Your opinion will then carry weight for them. If we both like the same type of books, I'll start watching your reviews because what you like I probably will like as well. Several of my followers have found great new books and authors that way.
When you write a review, you are communicating with readers. They see a book. They are interested, but like anyone else, they want to make sure they won't waste their money. Who wants to spend five dollars or fifteen dollars on a book only to find out that it was nothing they would have liked? Yet if a reviewer with similar tastes reads it first and communicates their thoughts, the reader will know ahead of time and save money. On the other hand, maybe your review convinces me to read a book that the synopsis wasn't able to; or even the cover turned me off but the review drew me in. And one may say "I just might have found a new author I love; all because of your review."
 
Your opinion helps readers find the books they love.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 












It is a Critique
 
Since it is an opinion, it makes sense that it is also a critique though it can differ to a traditional literary critique. If you examine literary journals, a critique is much more than a typical book review. It explores themes, setting, styles, and in-depth literary studies. These critiques can take up page after page in the journals. Most standard book reviews will not come anywhere near such depth, but that doesn't mean they are not a critique or that they can't have some depth to them.
The official definition of a critique is an act of criticizing. That means to explore what is wrong with something or point out the faults. Now that doesn't mean you have to be nasty or mean, but if there is something missing from the story, wrong, or just plain something you don't like, then through a book review you point that out. Look at it as taking a trip before someone else does and you share insight into it so their trip can be smoother if they decide to go after your critique of it.
In the review, you are giving your opinion. You didn't like the book? Then tell me why. What was wrong with it? Even if it is just your opinion, share it with me in a professional manner. Explain how the plot wasn't strong or the characters were underdeveloped or it was too violent for you. Then I'll know whether or not it might be a book for me. If we have similar tastes then I'll have a better idea if that creative trip will be worth my time. I might still read it but decide to wait until I am on vacation or something. You help me plan my literary escape destinations.
 
I cannot stress enough that critiquing a book doesn't mean you are to be hateful. Too many reviewers take an extremely negative approach to their review. They take it as an opportunity to say extremely critical and mean things about the work and the author. Why?
 
You can point out issues without getting nasty. In fact, your constructive criticism can be quite encouraging.
I cannot stress enough that critiquing a book doesn't mean you are to be hateful. Too many reviewers take an extremely negative approach to their review. They take it as an opportunity to say extremely critical and mean things about the work and the author. Why? You can point out issues without getting nasty. In fact, your constructive criticism can be quite encouraging.

 













It's an Encouragement
 
Readers searching for the next book to read are not the only ones reading your reviews. Authors are reading them as well. In fact, they might be reading them before other readers do. Why are they are so eager? They want to know what readers think of their work. They also want to know what they are doing right in their writing as well as what they need to improve on.
Nothing makes an author's day better than a review that is encouraging. Hearing that the book was entertaining and well written gives an author encouragement to continue doing what he was doing right. Even constructive critical reviews can be encouraging to an author.
Yes, that might sound strange, but keep in mind that every author reads their reviews. They don't have to have all five star reviews. In fact, the most seasoned and mature authors will tell you that some of their best reviews are those that were three star or less and were worded in a way that helped them improve as a writer.
I might, as a writer, be proficient in plot lines but tend to write bland dialogue. With the correctly worded review, an author can see that they could have done even better. Thank you for the great five star reviews, but also thank you for those constructive criticism comments that actually encouraged me. 
Through book reviews you can communicate with the author and point out where they are talented and how they can get even better. No one is ever at their best. But you as a reader can help the author down that road with an encouraging reviewing.
See how book reviews can be so powerful?
 
Okay, you know what a book review is? It is an opinion of a book you have read that points out the pros and cons of a book to a potential reader and an author. Yet what goes into a book review beyond the fact you like it and a few words on what that might be? What are the elements?

 












Elements of a Book Review
 
 
 

 

 












Size
 
Like many things, there is quite a dispute as to the size of a book review. There is no rule, per se, but it goes without saying that a quality book review needs to have some length to it.
Think about it. Do you want to read a review that is only a couple of sentences long?
The book was a great read. I strongly suggest it for you.
Would you really call this a book review? It's a short comment on the book and nothing more. Most professional book reviews average 250 to 450 words. Any less than that doesn't give much in the way of why you did or did not like the book while any more than that is way too wordy for someone to read. Also, if you are posting the review on a website, you need on average 400 words to stand out in the search engines.
The final size for you will develop as you create your own book review style. Remember that the more you can say in fewer words the better. But you need to at least get the other elements of a book review in. It is important to get a short summary of the book, an analysis, your opinion, and a disclaimer in.

 

 

 








 
Summary

 

 
 
Definition of Summary - covering the main points succinctly
 
I have read many book reviews where there was no summary included. Now if this review is only posted on Amazon or some other place where there is a review handy for me to read, that is not so bad, but if it is placed on a website that might be a little more difficult. I like to know what the book is about before I continue reading a review.
The summary should be a literal summary and not an entire recap of the story. I've read some reviews that ended up being 400 words of just a summation of the story. That's not a review. A summary should not be more than one paragraph of three to six sentences long. It should also not be a copy of the back cover of the book or the synopsis found online. Write your own summary without spoilers. This can be the very beginning of your review or right after a short intro with the title of the book and the author's name.
Uncle Tom's Cabin is the story of more than just a runaway slave. It is actually a story of several slaves from all levels of the slave society as well as that of owners and authorities. When a kind slave-owner finds himself struggling for funds, he decides the only way out is to sell a young slave boy. When the boy's mother finds out, she is willing to leave her comfortable home and take on the life of a runaway slave. The story follows this woman's escape as well as the journey of the slave that is sold and the effect both of these slaves have on the lives of the white community.
See how I've described the book in my own words without telling too much or taking up the majority of the review? It is short and sweet while grabbing the reader's attention. You'd do the same for any book whether it is fiction or non-fiction. Tell the reader what they might expect in the book.

 

 
Analysis
 
The next section is the most detailed and the longest. This is where you will examine the various aspects of the story. Though we'll go in more detail later, let me sum up the analysis this way. You'll typically answer the following questions in this section:
 

                  Is the story entertaining and/or informative?
                  Did the plot/storyline keep you hooked?
                  How was the pace of the story?
                  Were the characters developed?
                  Was it laid out in a logical and easy to follow manner?
                  Was there anything in the book readers might need to be aware of?
                  Were there any editing/proofreading issues that made it difficult to read?

This is where you get into the reasons behind your opinion of the book.
 
 
 
Conclusion/Opinion

 

 
Conclusion - a final decision or judgment : an opinion or decision that is formed after a period of thought or research
This is where you state whether or not you enjoyed the book. Now it can really be found anywhere in the review. It depends on where you want to place it, but it is a vital part of the review. You can't write a book review without this section. Did you like the book? Your why or why not should be found in the analysis section but you can expound a little more here.
This section needs to be clear and concise as well as polite. You'll find me referring to politeness throughout this ebook. You can dislike a book without being an ugly book reviewing ogre. Later on we'll discuss how you can state a negative review positively.

 













Disclaimer

 

 
Disclaimer - a statement that is meant to prevent an incorrect understanding of something (such as a book, a movie, or an advertisement)
This is a very important legal and ethical section of any book review. Most people don't realize that this is needed especially if they are just casual readers who rarely leave reviews. The federal government has passed a ruling that reviews need to have a disclaimer. This can be as detailed or as simple as you want as long as you are honest and straightforward. The purpose of this is to reveal any deception. Are you being paid for a positive review?
 
A rash of reviews began to show up on the internet where the author was paying the reviewer to give a glowing review. 

 

 
Now to pay for a professional reviewing service is one thing, but to pay for a five star review is something totally different. Thus the need for a disclaimer.
The following are examples of disclaimers:
 

                  I received this book from the publisher/author free of charge with no expectation of a positive review.
                  I purchased this book with my own funds with no expectation of a positive review from the author and/or publisher.
                  This book was a gift. No expectations of a positive review were given.
                  This book was provided as part of a virtual book tour with no expectation of a positive review given.
                  According to the Federal guidelines, this book is being reviewed with no expectations from the author and/or publisher for a positive review.
                  This book was provided as part of a college course. No expectations of a positive review were given.
                  This book was provided by the author with no expectation of a positive review. I did receive a payment for my review services again with no expectations of a positive review.

 
Get the gist of it? Be up front where you got the book. Explain what the expectations from you as a reviewer were or were not.

 

 












Pictures/Links
 
Unless you are posting directly on Amazon, Goodreads, or Librarything, you need to include pictures and links in your review. Why? Well, as a reader I want to know what the cover looks like. In today's online world, having visual aids are extremely important. In fact, most readers will skip over posts that do not have any images at all.
Add a picture of the cover. You might want to include a picture of the author. You can also add links to a book trailer. Don't forget to include a link to an online site where they can purchase the book. After all, if you write a great review and I want to read it, you want to help me out by directing me to the site to do just that.
Let me make a note here. Most people expect you to use your affiliate links in these reviews. If I like the review you wrote and want to purchase the book, by clicking on the link my purchase will generate a few cents to a few dollars for you. There is nothing wrong in that; but you need to be up front. Some people like to put this in their disclaimer. That is perfectly acceptable. Or you can put it in your about page that you use affiliate links throughout your site. Again, this is expected by most readers so not putting it on every post is okay just as long as somewhere on your site you state it so you cover your rear end.

 

 

 








 
Ratings

 

This is one element of a book review that is not always constant, nor existent, in a review. Yet many authors and readers look for them. To use or not use a rating depends on where you are placing your review.
The rating is important if you are placing your review on sites such as Amazon, Goodreads, LibraryThing, or Shelfari. These sites require you to use a one to five star rating. But if you are posting on your own site, using a rating is entirely up to you.
Let me start with having ratings or not on your own site. Personally, I don't use ratings when I post a review on my site. Why? Because the ratings on my site I consider useless. I don't want my readers to glance at a star rating and leave it at that. I want them to read the review and understand why I feel the way I do about the book. After reading the review, there will be no need for a rating. My review would say it nicely.
Now why use reviews then on the other sites? You go to those sites to find books to read. On my site, you'll have the one review on the book. On sites, such as Amazon, you'll get sometimes thousands of readers reviewing one book. Do you really want to read all those reviews? Do you even know any of these reviewers enough to trust their reviews? The ratings allow you to get a quick glance at the overall feel of the book. You can then drill down to read individual reviews to see their reasoning behind the ratings.
If you use ratings, how are they interpreted? On your website, you can use any rating system you want. Some people have ratings that range from a 1 to a 10. Others don't use stars. They use flowers, thumbs up, or some other icon. If you use anything other than the rating system commonly found on Amazon and Goodreads, please have a page dedicated to explaining your ratings. You might even want to consider putting your explanation on every review you post. Make sure everyone who visits your site understands what you mean when you give a book a 5 or a 3.
If you use the ratings on the other sites, you'll find a pretty consistent system. The standard is a 1 to 5 star rating. Understand that how the sites view the ratings can differ from what a reader or author might. Typically, the ratings are categorized as
 

1 star - Did Not Like - Usually this rating is the worst. The reader giving this rating hated the book and wishes they didn't read it. Why? The review should explain it because they might have hated the book because of something I would really enjoy.

 

2 Star - Disliked - This one isn't too bad as they really regretted reading it, but they didn't like and wouldn't want to suggest it to anyone. In the review, there should be reasons listed including the reasons why it wasn't a flat out one star. What kept it from getting to that low of a rating?

 

3 Star - It was Okay - This is one of the most misunderstood and misused ratings. Most people look at this rating as subpar. But the truth is that there is nothing essentially wrong with a 3 star rating. If you give a book this rating, you see some good points but it is not one you'd go nuts over. It wasn't bad, but it didn't trip your 'Wow" trigger. I personally love 3 star reviews as they might be the most honest ones out there.

 

4 Star - Good Read - This is another great review. This one would recommend the book and might even check out more from the author. This review should show some minor issues that were present but didn't distract from the reading.

 

 


5 Star - Beyond Excellent - This is one rating I feel is overused and oftentimes abused. Many people, including most authors, feel that only a five star review is worthy of praise. There really should be fewer five stars given as there are rarely any perfect books out there especially ones that meet your personal tastes all the time. Use this one with care and with wisdom. Too many five star reviews coming from you might actually discredit you.











How to Review Fiction Books











You cannot review every type of book the same way. Fiction books cannot be reviewed the same as non-fiction. Children's books cannot be reviewed the same way you review an adult mystery story. Each type as its own focus and points to consider. Yet as you look over these sections, there are some basic steps that apply to all books.









 
 
You probably wonder why on earth I'm putting this as part of the steps in reviewing a fiction book since it should go without saying. Sadly, it has to be said. Some people do not read the book before they review it. That can happen for a variety of reasons. It could be they promised a review and didn't have time to read it. Then there are those who are paid to give stellar reviews, and they don't take the time to read the book. Then you have the DNF's.
If you don't have time to read a book, then don't review it. Wait until you do have the time. If you have started and are a good way into it, then review it based on what you have read. Don't forget to state that you are still reading it and will give a final review when complete. Readers will appreciate your honesty and come back later to see what your final verdict is.
If you are paid to write a review, disclose it in the disclaimer. If you are paid to write a stellar review....then please don't do it. That is unethical and dishonest. Only write the reviews, paid or not paid, that are honest and sincere.
When it comes to DNF's, there is quite a bit of argument on whether or not to review these. When it comes down to it, you didn't read the book. To have read a book, you have to have started it and finished it. Personally, I do not believe in reviewing a book when you don't finish it. Why? Because you might find out that the book was actually quite good. I've done that with a few and was very glad I continued past the tough beginning which I did not in my review. Only once did I give a DNF and it was because the formatting and editing was so hideous that you couldn't read the book and make sense of it. I stated I would give a new review if it was corrected and I was able to read it.

 

 

 













Take Notes

 

 
This is one thing many reviewers don't think about. As you read, take notes. It could be in a notebook, journal, or sticky notes. There are some ereaders that allow you to do that as you go along which makes it really cool and easy to refer back to when you write your review.
 
Not everyone is able to write a review immediately after finishing a book. Also, it might take several days or more to actually read the entire book. That means some things you wanted to mention will get lost in the deep recesses of your mind. Taking notes as you go along will help you remember what you wanted to say in your review.
Is there a great scene you want to reference? Is there an issue you want to point out? No matter how good your memory is, life can get in the way and cause something you wanted to mention to run and hide from you when you start writing your review. Keeping notes helps you write a better review. Note the following sections as you read.
 
 
The Plot

 

 
When you review a book, you basically are telling people whether you liked it or not. But don't stop there. A worthwhile review does more than say "I liked the book" or "I would not recommend it." A book review explores the book. Part of that exploration is the plot.
The plot of a book is what drives the story. It involves the people, the actions, and the purpose of the story. What is the story about? Ask yourself this question as you read. If you can't answer it, there is no plot. As you answer it, you will have your review. 
So, what do you actually review in a plot? Answer these questions as you read and when you are done?
· Does the story keep you interested or bore you?· Does the story make sense? Can you follow it?· What makes the plot weak?· What makes the plot strong? 
If you read a book and you really couldn't care if you finished it, there is a problem with the plot. The story is not there. The plot is not grabbing you. This is a big problem and needs to be noted in a review. But don't just say the plot was weak or the story didn't keep you glued to the pages. Dig further. Oh, and if the story did keep you glued to the pages, explain why. Was it the interesting characters or the fast pace? Maybe it was the fact that the reader is kept in suspense.
 
I have read books where the plot makes no sense. No matter how hard I try I cannot understand the story. There is a problem with the plot. You need to note that in the review. 
When you review the plot, tell the readers if the plot is weak; from too many storylines or poor characters. Tell the readers what makes the plot strong such as good dialogue and the method of writing. Plot doesn't stand alone. All parts of a book are intertwined. 
Tell your readers about the plot. Describe the story without giving any spoilers. Tell them what made the plot good and what hurt it. Be constructive in your criticism.









 
Characters

 

When you review a book, you do more than say you like it. You evaluate all aspects of it including the characters. But what do you look for in reviewing characters? How do you review a character?
Actions 
When you read, evaluate how the characters act. Do you act realistic? Could you see these characters as real people? Now, keep in mind that some characters cannot be real such as vampires and such. Look beyond that.
 
Also, do the actions of the character reflect the personality the author portrays? If they are evil, does an act of kindness really fit them? It might if they do it as part of a sinister plan. It might if they are plagued with guilt and the scene fits the guilt. Think hard about the actions of the character. Their actions reveal a lot about them.
 
Let me give you an example. I was writing a story, and I suddenly realized that I was making the evil man too sympathetic. The actions did not fit him. It did not fit his personality. I had to rewrite the scene. His actions had to match his soul. 
Speech 
The speech of the characters has to match their personalities. Do they talk like someone from a certain location, education level, and personality? You don't want an illiterate hobo to talk like a history professor. You don't want to read a five year old talking like an old man. 
Depth 
What does it mean for a character to have depth? When you review a book, you need to know the answer to this because it should be part of your review. A character with depth is not just a person who moves or speaks. They have feelings that are believable. They have thoughts that pull the reader. They have a past that has created them. Deep characters have multi-layers that cannot be discerned in one paragraph or in one chapter. It takes a whole book and even then they are not fully explored.  
As you review a book, evaluate the characters. A good review discusses the characters. The reviewer should explain who they liked and didn't and why. The depth of the characters should be discussed. Why? Because a good fiction story is only good if the characters are.









 
 
Dialogue

 

 
Reviewing a book also includes looking at the dialogue from the characters. I don't want to assume you know what I mean by dialogue but I also don't want to get too in depth here as it is pretty simple. Dialogue is the 'spoken' words between characters. If the story was being acted out, the dialogue would be what the viewers heard out of the characters' mouths.
How can you review dialogue? Ask yourself these questions:
 

Would such a character have said that in real life?

 

Are the words matching the characters personality and action?

 

Is the dialogue easy to understand and follow?

 

Think of the words. Would someone from that place talk like that? Are they true to their background?

 

Is it smooth? Or does it jump around and repeat itself?

 
Dialogue should be true to the character. If someone is from the North, they will not be using Southern slang. Someone from the northern regions of Wisconsin will talk differently than those in Milwaukee. A person with an Oxford education would not talk like someone from a Kentucky farm.
Would a manly man use feminine words? Would a woman use football references? Yes they could very well if their character's personality is consistent. Remember that you don't have to follow stereotypes, but your character has to be true to how you create them.
 
Dialogue is a huge key to a character. How they talk reveals a lot about them. It can show a caring heart, a vindictive spirit, or a weakness. The best way to know if dialogue is used right is to say it aloud as you read. Does it sound right?
 









 
Style
 
When you review a book, you should always look at reviewing the style. This can be a tricking part a there is no right or wrong way to write a book. It all depends on the author. So, this part of the review can be highly subjective which means the review needs to be extra cautious here.
 
What is Style? 
Style when it comes to writing is a lot like style when it comes to clothes. There is no correct style. It can vary on region, gender, and occasion as well as on the individual. This means that a style might be conservative, liberal, wild, daring, modest, traditional, or eclectic. Now, think of that in terms of literature.

 

 

 

 

 

Personal Opinion 
Keep in mind this dress analogy. You might dislike high heels, but someone else loves them but can't walk in them. Another person loves them and looks great. If you are reviewing each of them, would you give each of them a negative review? The first one maybe you should because she just can't use them right. The second one you need to keep in mind that your dislike is not a reflection on how well she uses those shoes. The same can be said about books. 
When you review a book it is basically your personal opinion. But a personal opinion that can point out where something is good even if you don't like it can carry a lot more weight. The style of the book might not be your style, but note where the author does well with characters, dialogue, or scenes. Note in your review that this is not your style and why. That way if I find that I like most everything you do, I'll make a note to avoid that book. If I find that most of your reviews do not reflect the type of books I like, I might check it out. Nothing personal.
Look for the Positive 
As I stated, look for the positive. I don't like experimental styles of writing. I read a book recently that I would rate the style as a big 1. I did note in my review how much I didn't like and why, but I did point out how realistic the character were and how dynamic. I even suggested that if someone liked new and unusual styles that they should check it out. I still rated it low, but again that is a personal opinion. The rating was based on what I considered a lack of focus in the story. It might be the style. I just didn't get it.
Be Polite 
I cannot stress enough how you should always be polite in your reviews. I have read recently many that are downright nasty. If you don't like the style of the book, state that and explain. Never demean the author or other reviews. Never call a book names or the author. Be respectful. Others will respect your reviews more.
 

 

Editing

 

In a quality book review, style, characters, and plot are discussed. Anything that helps or hinders the reader should be brought out in the review. That includes editing and formatting issues, though that is not as cut and dry as you might think.Examples of Formatting Issues 
Formatting issues can be found in the layout of the book. It has nothing to do with spelling, punctuation, plot, or pace of the story. This is strictly visual appeal. What doesn't look right or prevents you, as the reader, from focusing on the story? 
Here are some examples of formatting issues:
 
 
 
· Paragraphs not always formatted the same way with some not indented or some indented too much. Keep in mind that some are meant to be that way like the beginning of a chapter or section.· No break in changes of scenery to help the reader know that one scene is done and a new one is coming.· No chapter breaks· A sentence is broken in half with the first part at the end of one paragraph and the second half as the start of another. 
Examples of Editing Issues 
What is an editing issue? It is something that is not just wrong but actually hinders the reader. So what if a comma is missing unless it confuses you. If you have to read a section over again to understand it, there is an editing issue. 
Here are some examples:· Character names are incorrect· Extra punctuation, like ".." at the end of a sentence, all over the book.· Too many uses of the same word over and over.· Typos all over the book 
How to Deal With Them in a Review 
As you read a book, keep in mind that no book is perfect. Even authors who go with the biggest publishing houses will have books hit the market with a missing comma or other form of punctuation/grammar mistake. It happens. So, if you see an occasional issue, don't make a big deal about it unless it impedes your reading. 
Now, how do you deal with them? With grace and professionalism. 
After you have reviewed the characters, plot and style of a book, turn to the editing and formatting issues of the book. Point out examples that were a speed bump in your reading. Let potential readers know what the issues are so they can decide if they are important enough to them. 
I cannot say enough to deal with them professionally. Never get nasty for any reason in a review. Never attack the author, editor, or publisher. Have some class. 
When not to Mention These Issues 
There are times when editing and formatting issues should never be mentioned. They are expected and not relevant. A reviewer with class will not mention them at these times:When the book is an ARC. An ARC is an Advance Reader Copy which is given out for reviews before editing and formatting is formalized. There will be issues and should be ignored. I think it is extremely poor taste for a reviewer to mention these issues when they knowingly receive an ARC.When there are just a few and they are minor. If there is a comma only missed five times in a large novel, that does not interrupt the flow of the book, don't waste your time mentioning it. Remember to be selective in what battles you pick. Nobody is perfect, and mistakes happen. Focus on the ones that are big and need to be included in a review.When you can't be nice. If you can't point out issues without professionalism, don't point them out at all. You only appear mean and vindictive.Editing and formatting are crucial in a book. When they are done poorly, they need to be pointed out in a classy manner. Be a quality reviewer and deal with these issues in a manner that makes you, as a reviewer, look good.












Trigger Warnings

 

 
When you write a book review, you are communicating with potential readers of the book. Through the book review, you tell them what you absolutely loved about the book, what was okay, what needed work, and what they need to be aware of before reading/purchasing. Use your book review to warn readers.
What do you warn readers about? Anything that might be offensive in a book should be warned to the reader. That could include:
 
Foul/crude language
Explicit sex scene
Blood/gore/violence
Magic/witchcraft/religion
Abuse
 
Not everyone likes to hear foul language. Some people don't mind some unless it is excessive or really crude. I warn my readers if there are any F-bombs and how often they might encounter it. Many appreciate that. I enjoy a good read, but if it has a lot of crude language I avoid purchasing it. Readers don't want to waste their money on a book they could have known ahead of time they wouldn't like.
Readers like to know before they begin reading a book if they will be blushing. Not everyone likes to read explicit scenes. Many people do, but just as many do not. Warn your readers if there are such scenes. I like to tell my readers how often they can find those scenes in the book, how graphic, and if they can easily be skipped over.
The same can be said about violence, magic, and religious subjects. I read a book that was pretty good but it was heavy in new age themes. I warned my readers of that as I know many who would not like to read it. Others would love it. Let your readers know about such things.
Abuse is another topic you need to warn your readers about. It is a topic that many readers don't think of mentioning in their review. I found out the hard way that it is very important. There are thousands and thousands of readers out there that have experienced their own abuse. They do not want to read about verbal, physical, or emotional abuse as it brings up harsh memories or turns their stomach. Warn your readers if anything like this is found in the book you are reviewing. This includes wife beatings, rape, molestations, etc.
There are many trigger topics that people can find very emotional. Some readers can't handle stories about cancer, abandonment, and other such topics. When you read the book, keep an eye open for any topics you know might be a problem for some readers. Remember that just because you aren't bothered by it doesn't mean your own readers aren't.
Use your book review to discuss the pros and cons of the book as well as warning readers if there are any topics that they might find offensive. Communicate with your readers. They will greatly appreciate it and return to read more of your reviews because they know you are watching out for them.
 
 

 

Spoiler Alerts

 

Many reviews present spoilers. They are the secrets of the book that could ruin the reading experience with them. If you didn't know that Luke was Vader's son, hearing that in a review when that particular movie was released, you'd be a little upset to find out the big secret the movie held. The same can be said about the book. You don't want to know that the gardener was the killer before you finished the book. These spoilers will prevent you from reading and even enjoying many books.
Yet there are times that you need to mention these spoilers in the review because they are vital in why you liked or didn't like the book. So how do you handle them? Very carefully and with lots of warning.
Most reviewers will put up a notice that there are spoilers ahead.
*****Spoiler Alert*****
This is a common one I see with reviewers. I'm reading along in a review and cannot miss this sign. That's the point. It stops me cold. Good thing, too as I don't want to read any spoilers. I stop reading the review. This doesn't make the review less effective to me. I'm actually grateful to the reviewer for giving me the heads up. Otherwise, I'd be very angry.
The only thing with this I would suggest is that you also note where the spoilers end. I stop reading the review because of the alert. But what if there are things I need to know about further down in the review? I miss out on them. The best thing to do is put the spoiler alert in the bottom portion of your review if possible or set it apart so the reader can easily see what area they need to skip to avoid the spoiler.
Also, don't give a spoiler just because you can. I've some reviewers do this as well. If you don't have to spoil the reading for the reader, then don't. You can be vague about it. Instead of saying the gardener did it, try this:
I was rather shocked at who had done it which was a pleasant surprise. , I think the author could have left a few hints even it was for a red herring; as there were too few for anyone to even guess who the killer was much less that it was.... Nope, not going to spoil it for you.
See how I did discuss my issue surrounding the secret of the killer gardener, but I never spoiled it for the reader. I kept quiet enough to still get my point across. Spoiling the story for a reader is never a good thing.
Another idea for you is to help with the spoiler alert is to color code it. Help it stand out so readers can avoid them easier if they want. Have a special box for the spoiler. Do something where the spoiler is separate and easily noted.












Ratings
 
 
There is not much more to add to ratings here that we haven't already said. Just make sure you
 

                  Have a consistent rating system if you have one
                  Let your readers know what your ratings system is

 
Your regular readers should be able to know exactly what your ratings mean. Your new readers should be able to find out early.










Example of Fiction Book Reviews

 












In my first edition of this book, many reviewers commented how they had hoped to see examples of great book reviews and maybe not so great book reviews. I will be honest. I hadn't thought of that during the initial writing phase. Using the reviews as a guide to improve the book, I scoured the world of book reviews for reviews to share with you. (See how book reviews can help an author out?)
 
I've pulled several samples of various book reviews of fiction books that I think is a good representation of quality and creative book reviews. Each of these has a picture of the book cover on the actual article where readers can see what it looks like and can click it to go purchase the book if they'd like.
 











Example #1

 

 
(Intro that gets the reader's attention as well as introduces the name of the book and the author)Are you looking for a good read with chills and sounds that go bump in the night? Then Aiden James' Cades Cove is the book for you.
(Summary so the reader can know what the overall story is about.)A couple heads to the mountains near Gatlinburg, Tennessee to strengthen their marriage and bring a spark back to it. While in Cades Cove, they discover a pouch of trinkets and a partially written name on a tree. That night, noises are heard in the house. The odd happenings follow them home to Colorado where the noises turn into something much more dangerous. Now their lives are in danger as a murdered girl from years ago is out to get revenge.
(Here the review gives an explanation of the overall review so the reader will understand where the reviewer is coming from.)First off, I do not like scary stories. I don't like horror. Why then did I read this book? I'll have to admit that it wasn't the cover, the description, or the title. It was the fact that I had read three other books by Aiden James that I just loved. That led me to Cades Cove which I had gotten during a free giveaway but that doesn't mean I'll read it. I can always delete a book. But being an Aiden James' book I just had to read it. Now saying that.....
(Describes the writing style of the author as well as the reaction the reviewer experienced.) This book kept me completely riveted. I had to finish it. I had to know what was happening and why. I couldn't read it at night as the first night I tried I had bad dreams that kept me up all night. I finished it the next day to avoid having to wait another day. Mr. James writes in a manner that captivates you and doesn't let you go. I felt like I was experiencing the ghostly encounters. Mr. James made it extremely real.
(Clears up any potential misconceptions as well as warns the reader of explicit language.) There is no gore in this book. It is not really bloody at all. There is blood but it generally just appears. There is violence and of course the terror of a dead witch. This is not a book for those that don't like to get scared. There are a couple of scenes that are explicit with language, but overall this was not throughout the whole book which I appreciate.
(Describes the plot.) The plot is catching and doesn't let you go. It is written in a manner that never lets you take a breath. It never lets you rest. You are always on the guard to what the ghost will do next. I could easily see this as a movie.
(summarizes with a recommendation)Do you like scary stories? Do you like suspense? Do you like a book that keeps you until the end? Then this is the book for you. Trust me, you will enjoy it. Though the ending drove me nuts. I'm still debating the sequel.
(Disclaimer) Note: This book was purchased by me during a free giveaway online.

 

something huge disappear that he doesn't mean to, and it doesn't return.











Example #2

 

 
(Intriquing introduction that gets the reader's attention).Are you phobic about clowns or the devil? the thought of being the last man on earth scare you? you have nightmares about being buried alive? of horror fiction, get ready for some truly horrifying tales.
(Creative addition that might get the reader even more interested or help explain the book better.) About the Author:
Michael Bray, a talented British author, writes tales of horror that will send chills down your spine. has written five books: Whisper, Meat, Dark Corners: Twelve Tales of Terror, Something in the Dark, and Funhouse. novellas, Scratchers and Seat 6A, are part of his series "Taste of Fear".
(the reviewer breaks down the individual short stories in her summary so the reader can get a better feel of what they are about.)The Stories & My Thoughts:
"Observation Room 5"
This first story opens with a guy in isolation in a hospital room. happened to him? , he was a snob who didn't like to be in close physical contact with others, but one day he decides to take the subway to work. thinks he is a great guy when he opts to sit next to the homeless smelly guy in the dark corner that no one else will dare get near. could be the worst mistake James Robinson ever makes.
"No Rest for the Wicked"
Huntsville, the oldest prison in the U.S., contained the country's most active execution chamber. is on death row awaiting execution later that day when he receives an unheard of visit. man visiting him wants to give him a job interview.
"The Prank"
This is the story of a childhood prank meant to scare someone, but it had a much more devastating and terrifying effect on all who were involved.
"Yurple's Last Day"
A lot of people are phobic about clowns. is a look into the life of a clown. first impression was that the story was going to be depressing, and in a way it was, but it was so much more than that. was subtly scary. it could happen.
 
Tina is young lady who was found wandering the streets while covered in blood. seems to be naïve and innocent, but there is so much more to this young lady than meets the eye.
"That Gnawing Feeling"
If you scare easily, you might want to make sure it is daylight when you read this one. zombies and being buried while still conscious and alive are part of this tale. you really trust your friends?
"No. 5 Sycamore Street"
A man who once worked for a drug runner, loan shark, and man who was involved in all other sorts of illegal activities has reformed. has he? you ever truly leave your past behind?
"The Box"
A mysterious box is the main character of this story. 's life goes downhill in many ways, then this mysterious box appears on her doorstep. has an offer inside that scares her in so many ways, but how long will she be able to resist? if she does give in, what will happen?
"Every Little Helps"
Do you know someone who recycles? Just how seriously do they take their recycling? interesting and horrifying take on what some will do to try and save the planet.
"A Strange Affair"
This tale of relocating for work, an adulterous wife, and a serial killer, connects with a previous short story in this collection. tie-in was a surprise, but one that made sense. the twist in the story was a total surprise. job, Michael Bray. story.
"Victor"
This one also connects with a previous short story in this collection. is the tale of two leaders of organized crime fighting for control. did I learn from this story? eat special Chinese steak.
"The Last Man"
An illusionist learns how to make things disappear, but they do eventually return. he makes something huge disappear that he doesn't mean to, and it doesn't return.
Michael Bray is one of my favorite authors of horror. tales never disappoint. favorite story in this collection is "That Gnawing Feeling". second favorite is "Yurple's Last Day". rest of them tied for third place.
Even though the stories are make believe (at least I hope they are), the author writes them so well that you are sucked into their horrific world while reading them. after you finish each story, your mind stays focused on what you just read for some time. are the kind of stories I really like.
(Creative addition that invites the reader to share the experience with the reviewer) Favorite Lines:
Remy watched Roberts through harsh little eyes, which combined with his huge jowls and downturned mouth gave him the look of a bulldog chewing on a mouthful of wasps.
I need to finish though, the sound in the walls is getting louder, and I suspect it won't be long now.
That was the thing with clowns, he thought to himself as he walked towards the center ring. ever takes them seriously.
She sounded like a bizarre psychopathic Yoda as she hovered there, just out of arms reach, waiting for him to make a move.
(Another creative aspect where the reviewer stepped outside the box)
New Words Learned:
prat - slang word that means buttocks
gout - I already knew that gout was a disease characterized by painful inflammation of the joints caused by an excess of uric acid in the blood, and that it commonly occurs in a person's big toe. this word also has another definition that I didn't know about. also means a mass or splash, as of blood. That is the way it is used in one of the above stories.
(Disclaimer)I think I got this book when it was offered free on Amazon, but I'm not sure. you would like to obtain a copy for your own reading pleasure, I have provided an Amazon link below.
Dark Corners: Tales of Terror
Meat - a Review
Funhouse - a Review
(final Thoughts)I thought I did really good when I figured out that a few of the stories in Dark Corners were tied together in some way. turns out though that each of the stories is connected with at least one of the others. you read the book and can't see just how they are connected, Michael Bray has written how for people like us. can find a link to their connections on this page - Dark Corners - How it all connects. Please read the book first. are liable to do better than me and find them all the first time through.











Example #3

 

 
This was the boxed set I got pulling the stories of the Cuvier widows together. The books start out with the death of the husband as each woman finds out in a span of minutes that they are widowed and they are not the only wives. The shock sends them all into disbelief, anger, and confusion as to what to do with the rest of their lives.
Each of the books comes from the point of view of the three widows. The first book, Wronged, is from the mind of the legal wife who has given the bigamist two children. Betrayed is from the second wife who just finds out she is to give her dear husband a child as she finds out he is dead and not her legal husband. Beguiled is from the young, innocent wife who was forced to marry the bigamist and is accused of his murder.
The stories flow at a comfortable pace: not too fast or too slow. The storyline idea is very unique. The beginnings of the second and third book seemed a little boring, but I really struggle with stories that go over the same scenes from different points of view. That is just something personal and isn't reflected in the rating.
Characters were unique though there were not a large amount of them. Many were just on the edges and come in when needed. I do think the characters could have had a little more depth but they were pretty close.
From an historical standpoint, I really struggled seeing the stories set in the period they were placed. I think it was because there was so little in the way of description of the world including clothing, houses, and such. As they moved through the scenes, I saw them in modern times which threw me for a loop when something would reference the late 1800s. These are historical fiction stories, but if you are big fans of this genre you will be disappointed. This is where I felt the story really fell short from being great.
Good concept, interesting story, good characters, more of a romance than a mystery, and lacking in the historical area. If you like romances, I do suggest you give these stories a try.
Note: I received this book from participating in a book tour with no expectation of a positive review.

 

 

 

 

 












Example #4

 

 
A haunted religious university is not something I generally love to read. In fact, I avoid horror at all costs, but having been familiar with these authors, I decided to give it a try. And boy I'm glad I did.
This is the story of a husband and wife paranormal investigation team. But they aren't your usual ones. The wife claims to be a psychic while her doubting husband wants to explain it all according to science. Many times he can, but there are some times he just can put his finger on what happened but his wife seems to. Now he might find the evidence he has demanded all along but is it worth it?
First off,this is not a long read at all. I easily read it in one sitting but the fact that I was hooked to the plot also helped me do that. This was very interesting as the story kept pulling me along. I have to say the main reason was the humor introduced through the ever doubting husband.
Now I wouldn't call this a comedy as there were some intense, on the edge of your seat moments, but I laughed so much as I read it. In fact, several times I had to read it aloud to my husband who also got a good chuckle. The husband in the book has these great one liners that get your tickle bone and make you wonder how that woman puts up with him. It added so much to a story that could have been just plain terrifying which for me would have been a turn off. I'm not a horror a person but the humor had me enjoying it. And it was realistic humor because I know people who would talk like that.
A great story that has me wanting more from these characters. If you like suspense with the paranormal and enjoy a good laugh or two, you really have to check this book out. I have to say this one will be marked as one of my must-reads for the year.
Note: This book was downloaded on a free offer day with no expectation of a positive review.

 

 

 

 

 

 










How to Review Non-Fiction

 













 

 

Overall, reviewing non-fiction books is the same as reviewing the fiction. You are looking at how the book is written, how you liked it, and if you would recommend it to anyone. And yes, people do read and review non-fiction books.
There are many non-fiction books out there under various genres. Most reviews will be on biographies, autobiographies and reference books. People are looking for the biographies and the autobiographies for reading enjoyment just as they do with the fictional books. Reference books are used for research and hobbies. People want to know that the books they get are what they are looking for. They want to ensure that the dictionary they buy will serve their purpose.
But there are different aspects you are looking for when it comes to non-fiction books. Each genre within these large groupings has its own attributes that need to be reviewed and examined.
Note: Throughout this section as I mention biographies, I will also be referring to autobiographies, memoirs, etc.












Read the Book

 

 
I know this goes without saying, but I've had people publically criticize me for even mentioning this in book reviewing tips. But you'd be surprised how many people don't really read the book or even finish it before they review it. Glancing through it is not reading it. Starting it is not reading it. Getting paid to write a review without reading it is not reading it. Read it all the way through. Be credible. Yes, this one of my book review soap boxes that I will not apologize about.
 
Take Notes
 
When you are reading non-fiction books, it is almost more important to take notes while reading it than it does when you are reading and reviewing a fiction book. It is easy to keep a piece of paper within the book as a bookmark that you use to make notes on. Even a post-it note works. Usually with many non-fiction books, you'll find a plethora of things that you will need to make notes on. It can be a lot more than with fiction books. Keeping notes is a great way to keep it all organized.

 

 
Organization/Layout

 

 
The organization and layout of a non-fiction book is a major part of your review. What kind of book is it? How does the layout affect it?
Biographies tend to not be so much in this area though the organization of the subject's timeline is very important. Are the chapters divided in an easy to follow and understand style? Are charts where they need to be as are pictures and other images?
Dictionaries should be laid out in a manner that allows one to easily find the words and understand the definitions. If it is a language to language dictionary, is it clear how to pronounce the words and find them?
Are the appendices clear and organized well? Are worksheets where they need to be?









 
Visual Aids
 
Many non-fiction books have visual aids. In reviewing non-fiction books you need to make note if there are any and how well they are displayed and organized.
Visual aids come in a variety of forms: charts, maps, graphs, pictures, and diagrams. they can be a vital part of a book, giving it depth needed for the reader to fully appreciate and benefit from the book. That is why reviewing this aspect is very important.
 
Does the book have visual aids? If not, in your opinion should it? Not every non-fiction book requires them to be a good book, but some would be improved on if there some. I read once a book on the history of Southeast Asia. It was a well-written and informative book, but there was not one visual aid in it. To be honest, it would have been great to have maps to explain the various regions and charts to help me keep the dynasties in order. I'm a visual learner who needs to have the visual aids to enhance what I am drawing in either through reading or listening. In writing the review, I stated that the lack of visual aids was something I noted and it could have used to them to help me retain information better. The goal is that the authors/editors will take note and add that in their next edition.
Are the visual aids clear and make sense? Can you follow the graphs and charts that are used to support the information? You need to be able to see where they get their data and how it represents the material.
Are they presented well? Are they colored or in black and white? Does that help or hurt them? Are they placed where it is beneficial or are they hard to find? Sometimes you find that a chart is placed several pages away from the data that refers to it. The result is flipping back and forth between pages which is not a pleasant reading experience.

 








 
 
Bibliography/Table of Contents/Index

 

 
Many people don't stop and think about these sections of a book, but when it comes to non-fiction, they are vital. They could be described as the second most important parts of the book after the actual meat of it all.
 
Bibliography
The bibliography is the foundation of any non-fiction book. are some that don't need them as they are based on the experiences of the writer, but at any time they use material from other sources, a bibliography is required.
 
A bibliography is a list of sources used to support the text. Where did they get a particular quote? The bibliography is the direction to help you find the material. Take a look at the bibliography. What sources do they use? is a great way to verify the credibility of the text you are looking at.
In reviewing the bibliography, there are a few things you need to note.
 

            How many sources are used?
            Are the sources credible?
            How varied are the sources?

Most non-fiction books have a bibliography of at least five sources with a vast majority being multiple pages long. There is no standard accepted number of sources though most areas of study will stress a minimum of five sources that give the material a well-rounded foundation.
What makes a credible source? Credible sources are ones with the knowledge and know how to support what they write. I'm writing a book here on how to write a book review. If I had never written one, I would have no credibility. My credibility lies in the number of reviews I have posted online and in print. Does the author of the source have a degree, certification, or training in the area they are writing on? What gives them the authority to write on this? Keep in mind that one does not have to have a doctorate in a subject to be an expert or a credible source but they need to have some experience under their belt. Research the author thoroughly for their credibility.
Over time you will be able to recognize names in a bibliography listing. If I look at a bibliography of a history book and see names such as _____, I can with confidence know the material they are using is credible. Now that doesn't mean they used it correctly or in a credible fashion. That is where my reading the book comes into play.
The variety of sources can also play a part in your review of this section. I would be a little suspicious of a book that only used YouTube videos as a source. Granted there are some topics in which this could be a very valuable resource and would be sited multiple times in a bibliography, but being the only source might be a red flag for you. Great researchers tend to pull from all areas for their list of sources. Books obviously are great resources as are films, videos, and images.
Websites are becoming a very common source especially as more and more books are placed online for easier access by the general public. There is nothing wrong with that as long as the sites used as sources are credible. Typically most .org and .edu sites are strong sources, but you should always check out the actual sites. Look at the about pages, check out awards and who are the faces behind the site. Remember that anyone can start a site but it doesn't mean they really know what they are talking about. That is one reason that any encyclopedia site like Wikipedia is not considered a credible source. You want sites that are limited in access to those who really know what they are doing.
What if there are no sources? That doesn't necessarily make the foundation of the book bad depending on the book and the purpose behind it. Is it a book about the history of Russia? no source is not good at all. Is it on how to set up a home office? might not be any sources if the person writing it is pulling from their own experience and knowledge. might be few if at all. Weigh the need for sources based on the book.
Table of Contents
This is another part of a book you don't always find, but it can be very useful. Some fiction books have a table of contents especially if the chapters are labeled. Most non-fiction books should have the section as it helps to guide the reader before and during their reading time.
Is there a table of contents? Should there be? Remember that you use the table of contents to check out a book before you buy to know what is inside as well as after you finish reading it to find something. If you want to know specifically how to write non-fiction book reviews, you can use the table of contents in this book to skip the other stuff and go right to the non-fiction section.
Is the table of contents laid out in an easy to follow manner? Some are not detailed enough. Note that in your review. If there is nothing wrong with it, you can either ignore it in your review or point out if there is something exceptionally well done about it.
Index
This is a very useful section of a non-fiction book when you use it for research. The index of academic books is vital for its usefulness. This is where you can go to narrow down your search within the book for different topics. If the book is on the American Revolutionary War, you might only want to find information on Benedict Arnold. Look in the index under Arnold to find the pages where he is mentioned. Without that index, it would take you rereading or thumbing through the book to find the information which could takes hours or days. An index makes it easier to use the book.
Many non-fiction books are used by academia which means the bibliography, table of contents, and index are used heavily to help navigate through books and choose the right ones for research and as sources. you write your reviews of non-fiction books, keep in mind who your audience might be and gear your review toward them.

 








 
 
Writing Style

 

 
The writing style of any book is important in a review. Is it entertaining with humor thrown in or is it dry and in a style similar to lectures? Let your readers know ahead of time so they can be prepared before opening the pages.
I once reviewed a history book and noted how the style of writing was very dry. This is no way was bad nor diminished the rating of the book. It was just a note to the reader to be prepared. Actually, the book was very well done but I would not have suggested reading it purely for pleasure. It was one for research only, in my opinion.









 
Credibility

 

 
In your review of non-fiction books, you want to look at the credibility of the author. Are they writing how to be successful in marketing your book? What is their background? It might be in marketing which is a good thing to have when writing such a book but have they themselves been successful in marketing books? Think about it. Is the book's author credibility real good when they have the education but have no proof that they have actually done what they claim they can teach you to do?
 
If I had never written a book review, I would have no credibility as the author of this book. If I write a book on the great uses of an iphone for writers but have never used one nor have written any other books, do I have credibility? Sadly, I have noticed many how-to and tip books are bought without anyone looking into the credibility of the author. Researching a non-fiction book's author is very important in a review. It helps readers find the right books by the right authors.

 








 
 
Extras









 

 

There are many extra things non-fiction books have that you need to make note of in your review. These can be great for researchers and those who just want to learn more.
Appendices
These are the sections found at the end of the book that usually holds extra info that would be too much for the main body of the book or not part of the overall topic. It is usually supportive of the book and helps someone who wants to know more about a topic. Though I don't have any appendices with this book, I could pull the chapter on examples out and create an appendix of them. It depends on how I use them within the text. Some appendices will be charts and graphs that you can explore for further information. It could be a genealogy chart or anything else that supports the main text.
Disks/Downloads
It is not uncommon for some books to have additional material; either through a disk located in the book of the book or through a download from the internet. might access to worksheets, maps, or additional resources and study material. Note these in the review and how well done they are. Some people might want to buy the book solely for the additional material but if it is not well done, they might want to spend their money elsewhere.

 

 
Ratings
 
 

 

Ratings for non-fiction books are the same as for fiction books. Just make sure you
 

                  Have a consistent rating system if you have one
                  Let your readers know what your ratings system is

 
Your regular readers should be able to know exactly what your ratings mean. Your new readers should be able to find out early.
 

 









Examples of Non-Fiction Reviews











Example #1—Autobiography
 

 

A copy of this book should be given to every female who has experienced sexual trauma of any kind. 's bravery in telling her story should aid their recovery from such a traumatic event and make them realize that they are not to blame.
About the Author:
Carrie May Lucas is an American author living in Seattle, Washington with her daughter. As a member of the RAINN Speakers Bureau, she works to educate and inform the public on sexual violence. Through her writing she inspires other survivors of domestic violence and sexual abuse, and helps give a voice to their struggles. In her spare time, Carrie May Lucas likes to dance, run, and do yoga, and is currently getting a Master's degree in Education.
Follow her on Twitter @carriemaylucas
Visit her website www.carriemaylucas.com
Or find her on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/carriemaylucas
Visit her author's page on Amazon: http://www.amazon.com/Carrie-May-Lucas/e/B00JH3J1VA
The Story & My Thoughts:
Rape happens all the time. , in many cases the victims are treated as the guilty party, as though they are the ones who committed a crime. there was some casual flirting involved, maybe provocative clothing was worn, maybe suggestive glances were given. the police and everyone else decide the rape was the victim's fault or that she just imagined it. what if she didn't imagine it? fault was it?
After her divorce, Carrie moved to Seattle with her little girl. decided it was time to move away from everyone and live completely on her own. was good. she met a handsome, charismatic lawyer, it seemed to get even better. there was something not quite right in this engaging guy who appeared to have it all figured out.
Carrie felt that she and Sayid were made for each other. one night the unthinkable happened. guy she had fallen in love with, the one she thought was so perfect for her, hurt her in an unforgivable way and wasn't even sorry for what he had done.
Once Carrie got over the initial shock and began to stand up for herself, Sayid's true character came through. wanted to reach inside my Kindle, pull him out, and choke him.
If you have never been raped, you might not understand the different emotions that flooded through Carrie, but they are real. do I know this? little over two months after I was married, eleven days after my eighteenth birthday, I was raped. experience, as I did not know my rapist, was nothing like what Carrie May Lucas went through in Where Fault Lies, but the emotions, the shame, and the guilt that overwhelmed me were pretty much the same.
This is an awesome book that everyone needs to read. 's story starts out as entertaining, but then it just makes you mad. happened to her is horrible, and I applaud her for having the strength to write about it and educate others.
Favorite Sentences:
I believe the most troubling times in life are what have built and strengthened my character.
They say love is blind, but that phrase takes on an entire new meaning in an abusive relationship.
When you're at your worst you really find out who your real friends are, and the rest seem to disappear.
Tonight the creatures from my childhood revisit me: the monsters under my bed, the burglar creeping in through the window, the spiders I see crawling up the walls.
Rape is the only crime where the victim is assumed to be lying, until the evidence leads the police elsewhere.
New Word Learned:
nebulous - hazy, vague, indistinct, or confused
How Writers of Fiction Can Use This Book:
If one of your characters is involved in any way with a rape, this book is an excellent resource on just how someone who has been raped will react. is also a good example of how a devious, manipulative rapist behaves and how he will groom his potential victims.
Writing Prompts:
You need to create two characters: a rapist and the one who is raped. this hideous act is subtle and done by someone the victim knows, or whether it is violent and done by a complete stranger is up to you and your story. could even write it both way to see which one works best for what you have planned.
Once you have these characters created, you need to write a story around them. you write a mystery, a horror story, or a love story?
For a mystery, something said or seen during the rape could be the clue to not only catching the rapist but also be the clue to solving a great mystery.
For a horror story, the rape could be the beginning of a much more terrifying tale. the one being raped turns the table on her rapist and exacts her own style of justice.
A love story. rape could be thwarted by a boyfriend, girlfriend, or spouse. crime that was committed could be the key to their relationship becoming deeper and more meaningful.
I was sent a copy of this book free of charge in exchange for an honest review. If you would like your own copy of this extraordinary book, I have provided an Amazon link below.
Where Fault Lies - You can purchase either a Kindle edition or a paperback edition of this book through Amazon when you click on the link.
For Non-Writers: How to Write and Professionally Self-Publish a Memoir is the guest post Carrie May Lucas wrote for me. it, you will find lots of useful information.











Example #2—History
 

 

Too often in history we think of 1492 as the beginning of history for the "new" lands Columbus discovered. In fact, before Europeans ever set foot on the soil of the Americas, cultures that would put most European ones to shame flourished. There is so much more to American history that I found in reading 1491 by Charles C. Mann.
Let me start off by saying that this book is not a light read and will not be read in a day or two. It is very heavy and full of information, including a lot of scientific data. There is more than simple history here.
Mann brings with him personal accounts of archeological sites and interviews that he conducted over several years. He takes the reader to the depths of Peru and Mexico. He shows us the coast of North America when blue eyes first scanned it. Through the book the reader learns that the natives were not scattered about and foraging for food. They had many highly developed cultures and thickly populated the continent.
Mann goes through several theories and estimations of what the native population was before Columbus landed. It ends up being a wide range of estimates, but the point cannot be missed that there were many, many more natives that roamed these hills and valleys than we are led to belief in our textbooks. In fact, many of the "facts" told to us throughout the years are either questionable or flat out wrong.
Mann brings up all views and points out the strengths and weaknesses of each. Where did the natives come from? He has a whole section devoted to discussing the Bering Straight theory and many others. In discussing the native population of the Americas, the topic of European diseases cannot be ignored. The truth is that much discussion is given to that. Mann goes much farther than just saying that diseases unknown to the natives killed them. He gets into the genetic makeup of all the ethnic groups to show why they were unable to fight these diseases off.
Think you know how the natives lived? Think again. As more and more research and discoveries are made, the entire picture we have of the Americas before Columbus is being ripped apart and repainted. The new picture presented to us is much more lively and with vibrant colors everywhere.
Yes, the Mayans were advanced. What you really don't realize is how advanced they were. Could they have been further along than the European cultures at one time? Was there development of civilization occurring in the Americas as it was in the Fertile Crescent? Mann addresses this and more.
I thoroughly enjoyed 1491, but I have to admit that when the sections that were heavy in the science and genetic arena, I drifted away. That was way above me and made my head spin.
One of the best things about this book is that Mann explores every stance on each subject and lets the reader understand what each side was conveying. He is not in the least biased. That is not to say that he doesn't give his opinion. He lays it out in a way where the reader can make up their own mind where they stand.
I learned a lot from 1491. Many a section had me stopping and pondering his words and rethinking much of what prior scholars and historians had drilled into me. It made for great discussions between me and my husband, a history teacher.
1491 is a book I highly recommend. Though you need to remember that this is a very heavy read and should not be approached lightly. Mann has done a superb job of exploring the history of the Americas prior to Columbus and showing the world that there is more to this continent than we ever realized.
Note: This book was purchased by me with my own funds.

 

 

 












Example #3 - Picture/Interactive Book
 
Momo is hiding in every picture in this book. you find him?
About the Photographer:
It is obvious that the photographer, Andrew Knapp, travels a lot with his dog, Momo. One day when he took his dog into the woods to throw a stick for him to retrieve, he discovered that Momo wasn't interested in playing that game. , he wanted to play hide-and-seek. he found Momo hiding behind some trees, Andrew Knapp was inspired to pick up his camera and take Momo's picture. posted these on Instagram and was amazed when Momo became an Internet sensation.
 
Keep your eyes open when you are out on the road. you will spot Andrew and Momo traveling around in their yellow van, a 1977 Volkswagen Westfalia.

 

 
The Book & My Thoughts:
Find Momo: Photography Book is so much more than a book full of pretty pictures. Knapp is a very talented photographer. share my home with four dogs and eight cats. know it is not easy to get animals to cooperate when you are taking their picture.
Since Momo is a black and white border collie, I was sure that I wouldn't have any problem finding him in any of the pictures. was wrong. , his hiding place was obvious in some of the photographs, but there were also many where Momo's skill at hiding outdid my ability to find him. had to cheat and turn to the answer key to find out where he was. I spotted him it was obvious, but until then he proved impossible to find.
One day when my eight-year-old grandson came over, he picked up Find Momo and looked through it. For quite a while, he sat and searched through every picture for Momo's hiding place. Sometimes he had to ask for my help, but he was successful at finding the dog by himself many times. has always liked to find Waldo, and he told me that he enjoyed finding Momo just as much.
How You Can Use this Book for Your Fiction Writing:
This is a book full of pictures that you can use for writing prompts. don't want to give Momo's location in any of the pictures away, but I will give you examples of questions you can ask about each snapshot.
Why is Momo hiding where he is?
Is someone chasing Momo?
Does Momo know the location of something he shouldn't?
Did Momo discover the identity of a burglar or a murderer?
Is Momo hiding because he witnessed a tearful yet joyful moment in the lives of two people?
Has Momo spotted Santa Claus making his yearly delivery of Christmas presents?
Is Momo afraid to come out because he has discovered the toys are alive?
I think my favorite picture, and one of the most difficult ones to locate Momo in, is the picture of the cluttered porch in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. the back of the book, he tells you more about the owner of this porch filled with dolls and stuffed animals of all kinds. 'm sure a story could be found there too.
How to Use this Book for Homeschooling:
For you creative homeschool moms out there, and you just about have to be creative when you homeschool, this book would be a fun and awesome learning tool. of the pictures of Momo were taken in various locations throughout Canada and the United States. picture could be a springboard that leads to a more in-depth study on each location. course, the main objective when looking at each picture is to find Momo, the dog that seems to blend in where you think it would be impossible for him to.
Whether you get this book just to find Momo, to use the pictures as writing prompts for a story, or to make your homeschooling more interesting, you will enjoy this book. was sent a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. If you would like to purchase your own copy to enjoy, I have provided an Amazon link below.
Find Momo: Photography Book

 











How to Review Audiobooks

 












Audio books are not anything new. Years ago when I was a small child, a company provided books on tape for the blind. Someone just figured out that they could be useful for people who could see quite well and took audiobooks to a whole new level. Now you can practically get any book published by the big publishing houses on tape and some that are from indie authors.
Yet they aren't really books in the traditional sense. are no pages to critique or formatting to review or is there....
 












Read...Listen to the Book
 
I can't say it enough: You need to read, or listen to in this case, the book you are reviewing. If you are getting tired of me saying this, you probably are one of the honest ones who do. I've read enough reviews to know that sadly a good number of reviewers don't do this.
For this kind of book, you have to listen to it. With today's technology, you can listen via your computer, tablet, or even phone. I've gotten some that are CDs and play them in my car while driving. Listen to the audiobook.

 

 

 








 
Dittos

 

 
When it comes to reviewing the various aspects of an audiobook, you'll want to review it just like a standard fiction or nonfiction book. I won't go over those sections all here, but I do strongly suggest you read the applicable section to apply to audio-books. 

 

 

 

Speaking Style

 

 
The biggest difference you will find in reviewing audio books is the section that concerns the audio. How well is the reading done? That is the big question. The plot might be great. The author might be phenomenal. If the reading is done poorly, this audiobook just got a low score. Why? Because with audiobooks, the narration is the biggest part you are really rating.
Does the reader keep you entertained? Can you follow along? Do they read too fast, too slow, or just right? Are they understandable? If they do a lousy job, do you really want to recommend it to others? Stress that the story is well-written with great plot and characters, but maybe they want to read it instead of listen to it. Make sure you review it in a way that doesn't steer the reader away from a good book.










Examples of 










AudioBook Reviews

 

 

 












Example #1









 

 

I will admit I've not been a big fan of audiobooks. I've tried them many times only to find myself falling asleep. This is usually because I can read so much faster than I can listen and the voices aren't always the most mesmerizing. Now, Tom Mison has changed my mind. Oh....that voice!
 
We all know the story of Sleepy Hollow so I won't go over that. This will review will be strictly on the audio quality which I will not stop gushing over. I began watching the series Sleepy Hollow a few days before a friend of mine told me that this audio version was on Audible and was free. Grudgingly I decided to give audiobooks another try.
 
I began listening to the story I knew so well and found myself completely mesmerized by the voice. The story came alive to me in a way it had never happened before. I about cried when the story ended. Then I discovered that the voice in my ear was the same man who played Ichabod Crane in the show. I was in love! (Sorry, hubby. But that voice!)
 
If you can't tell by now, Tom Mison's voice is to die for. I looked for other books he had narrated and came up empty handed. I'll buy whatever book he narrates no matter what it is. He's that good. Because of him telling an old tale in such a wonderful way, I'm now hooked on audiobooks, but I'm also now very snobby when it comes to the voices. In a way he has spoiled me horribly.
 
I beg you to listen to this book. Give it a try. Even if you know the story backwards, forwards, and upside down, you have to listen to Mison tell it. I honestly felt like I was in the story watching it all transpire.

 












Example #2
 

 

There are audiobooks and then there are...audiobooks. I have found some that would turn me off of books forever if they were the only examples I had in front of me. Now I've found that there are several gems hidden in the world of audiobooks that I not only will gobble up but will also tell everyone about. One of them today is The Hobbit.
 
I will not go over the story itself here as the book can stand on its own merit. Here I'll just review the audio aspect of it.
 
This audio version had me feeling like I was right there in the midst of the story. Honestly, there were times I thought I was watching the movie and said out loud, "That wasn't what happened!" I forgot I was listening to the book. The audio has sound effects that were outstanding and at times realistic.
 
The voices were as well outstanding. Only a couple of very minor characters did I feel the actors stretched it, but as I said they were minor so it was very short-lived. Then I heard in one of the 'intermissions' that it was done for radio which explained why it was so well done.
I had read the book a couple of times in the past and seen the movies, but it felt like I was hearing it for the first time. Nothing was at all boring, and I think that was mainly due to the excellent production of it.
 
I strongly encourage you to listen to this version of Tolkien's masterpiece. Even if you have read the book many times, you'll find it enjoyable. Great for trips, family nights, and just to relax with.

 

 

 









How to Review Picture Books











Bet you didn't stop and think that reviewing picture books is really any different than it is to review any other book. Well, yes and no. Like so many other things in life, it is not always so clear cut.
The overall concept of the picture book review is the same as any other review. You are giving your opinion on how well it read, the quality, and if you recommend it to others. But there are a few things that are different.












The Story
Not every picture book has words included. The younger the audience, the less likely you will find words in the books. But if they are there, review that. Ask yourself these questions:
 

                  Is the writing appropriate for the age group marketed to?
                  Does it flow well?
                  Is it well written?
                  Are there any editing issues?

 

 

 

 

Layout/Design

 

A big aspect of a picture book is the layout of it. How are the words, if any, and the pictures presented? Critique the overall design of the book.
 
 

                  Do the words go with the picture they are near?
                  Does the layout make sense?
                  Can a child of the right age follow along and understand?

 

 








 
Quality of Pictures

 

Since this is a picture book, the quality of the pictures is important. This is a digital age where a few pixels off can make a big difference.
 
 

               Are the pictures clear?
               Do they present what the author appears to want?
               Are they drawn to the quality of the book?

 
Keep in mind that one book might have stick figures which is entirely appropriate for the topic. Don't get fixated on finding Rembrandt's. You're looking for pictures that are well-done for that particular book.

 








 
Overall
What is your overall opinion of the book? Bring all the components together and give a fair critique of them. That includes all aspects above including that of a standard book review: plot, characters, dialogue. All of these aspects need to be entertaining for a good book.

 

 

 

Warnings

 

 
Yes, there could be picture books that need to have warnings. Why? Because not everyone is ready to have some topics discussed or they have particular issues with certain topics. These include:
 
 

                  Cultural
                  Religious
                  Social
                  Family

 
There are many picture books on how families are structured which are designed to help children adjust and accept the various family structures in our society. Under this one umbrella could be blended families resulting from divorce and re-marriage to single parents, to even homosexual families. All of these topics are relevant in today's society, but might not be what a parent wants their child to face at that particular age.
Is there a death in the story? Is there some kind of trauma? Are there sensitive topics discussed? Be open and honest with readers so they can be prepared. There is nothing more horrendous than to give a child a book and realize it discusses things you consider inappropriate.

 

 

 












Examples of Picture Book Reviews
 
 

 












Example #1
 

 

Do you know anyone who is afraid of the mysterious noises heard at night? Have you ever been afraid of the dark?
About the Author:
Keren Yadid's first book was inspired by her six-year-old daughter. words seem to flow out of this single mom that will put a child's fear to rest. wrote this book for those who face fear at the most surprising times and in the most unexpected places. next book is currently being written.
The Story & My Thoughts:
Mia's Quest for Courage is a rhyming picture book written for little children four to eight years old. is a little girl who is scared of all the noises she hears at night. of what could be underneath her bed frighten her. mom tells her a story that lets her know it is okay to be afraid because the courage is already there inside of her. drifts off to sleep and has a dream about a beautiful city where there are some baby dinosaurs lost inside a scary cloud. remembers all the stuff her mom has told her and she bravely sets off to rescue the frightened babies.
Inga Shalvashvili did a fantastic job illustrating this tale that shows how one's courage can be brought out by kindness and caring.
For a child who is frightened of the small noises that are heard when the lights go out, this story would have a calming effect and bring comfort.
There was a time in my life during my childhood when I was scared of the dark. a story like this before I attempted to go to sleep and entered my terrifying world of dreams (they really were terrifying at that point in my life) would have soothed my anxious mind and placed good thoughts in my head.
Mia's story is told in an easy, natural rhyme should be pleasing for young ones to hear.
Favorite Lines:
Find power in your heart, and simply let it grow. hold your head up high, and let your courage flow.
A copy of this ebook was given to me in exchange for an honest review. you would like to purchase a copy of this book to share with your child or some other child who is battling a fear of the dark, I have provided an Amazon link below.
Mia's Quest for Courage
 

 

 

 












Example #2

 

 
Does your child realize just how much action and adventure can be experienced by reading a book?
About the Author:
Artie Knapp lives in Cincinnati, Ohio. is the author of many published books for young readers. them are Stuttering Stan Takes a Stand and Living Green: A Turtle's Quest for a Cleaner Planet.
The Story and My Thoughts:
Thea should have been an extremely happy cat. She had a great life with her humans, but she wanted more. When the door was left open one morning, off she went to seek the excitement she craved. Being alone in New York City promised to show her more action than she was prepared for until she met a another cat who introduced her to a lion. though this lion lives in captivity, he was able to show Thea the way to experience all the action and adventure she could possibly crave from the comfort and safety of her humans' home.
The illustrations done by Sunayana Nair Kanjilal really bring the story to life. know that a lion in a zoo wouldn't have a bookshelf full of books inside his enclosure. fully realize that cats can't read. only have eight of them, and there are times I wish they could pick up a book and read. I think it would be so awesome to see one of my cats doing what Thea is doing in the last illustration: on the top back of the couch against some pillows and reading a book.
This book is the perfect way to show your child just how much adventure waits for them inside the covers of a book. your child is bored or complains that there just isn't anything entertaining to do, this would be the perfect book to use as an introduction to the fabulous world of reading.
This book was written for children six years old or older. , even though I'm forty-seven, I enjoyed reading the book too. The language in the book is simple enough that a young child could possibly read it alone, but why take a chance? , Mom or Dad, will get just as much enjoyment out of it as your child will.
Favorite Line:
And before he had finished the first page, Thea began to understand the power of reading.
Where to Find Author on the Internet:
http://www.artieknapp.com/
https://www.facebook.com/authorartieknapp
How to Get a Copy of this Book:
I was sent a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. you would like to purchase a copy of your own, I have provided an Amazon link below.
View from a Zoo
Find out more about this author and the story behind the book in Artie Knapp - Characters, Writing, and Inspiring Children to Read.










The Difference in Reviewing Ebooks and Print Books

 












Is there really a difference between reviewing ebooks and print books? In the grand scheme of things, no. Yet there are some things that should be noted that you need to take into account for each format as you review the book.

 













Expectations from Print Books









 
Print books are nothing new to us. They have been around for centuries now which lead us to expect certain things from them.
 

                  It should be legible.
                  Formatting should be clean.
                  Few mistakes found.
                  Professional looking.

 
In the age of self-publishing this is an area that has been neglected and sometimes thoroughly abused by those who are unaware of the expectation of readers. At times, it can be easy to tell who self-published a book due to the neglect of these expectations. In reviewing a book, don't take it too easy on someone for these areas if they were self-published. The truth is that it is not that hard to format the book to look like one that came through a traditional publisher. There are many services out there that will do it for an author as well as many templates you can use that will help along that path.
Do keep in mind that just because you find one spelling error doesn't mean a one-star review is justified. Keep in mind that editing and proofreading can be quite pricey. That means most self-published authors will look for lower-cost editing which usually means a few mistakes will get through. That is also not uncommon in the books through the traditional publishers. Mistakes happen. A book riddled with them is not acceptable, self-published or not.

 

 

 

Issues with Ebooks

 

 
With ebooks, there are issues completely beyond any author's and publisher's ability to fix. In the conversion process, there will be errors that occur as in spacing and formatting. Even the big publishing houses have these issues. It takes a lot of time and messing with the files and even then it is not a high chance that the files will come out right as Amazon or Barnes and Noble take the files and reformat them.
Another issue with eBooks is the device you are reading it on. It has nothing to do with the publisher, formatter, or writer. It is the nature of the eBook beast. It is a fluid method of reading which means it changes continually. Why do you think there are no page numbers on an eBook? Because page ten might be page eight on one reader or page twelve on another. An orphan sentence might appear on your Kindle but not on your laptop. at the size of your smartphone's screen, your ereader, your iPad, your laptop, and any other device you can read eBooks on. They are all different.

 

 

 

 











What issues might you find in an eBook compared to a print book?
 
 
Extra spacing
Widow/Orphan sentences
Paragraph indentations
 
All that being said, the review of issues in eBooks needs to be taken with care. It is to be mentioned in the review, of course, but take care not to make it too weighty in the final rating. Many times, it is a technological issue that few can overcome. I suggest that you avoid comments on the formatting unless it is so bad that your reading was impaired. Then mention what device you were reading it on to also help the one reading your review.

 









Ethics and Etiquette

 












This is a very important area of any topic. Ethics keep your reputation clean and solid and can keep you out of court and jail as well. It is the position of being honest and trustworthy. When you write book reviews, your ethics is very important. If you can't be trusted, you'll lose readers and could be liable.
Etiquette is also important as it is the foundation for your business, a.k.a. book reviewing, and helps to create and solidify professional relationships. Polite interaction gives you an edge over those who don't act in such a fashion.
By having good ethics and conducting yourself with good etiquette, you ensure your chances of success.













 

Read the Book
 
Yes, I know you are probably rolling your eyes at this. Many people have gotten upset that I have to say such a thing. Well, the reason I do is because I have met too many instances where the reviewer didn't read the book. They might not have had time. They might not have been interested, or they have some other reason behind their actions. They might even be just trying to help an author friend out.
It becomes obvious that the reviewer didn't read the book when their review is so off base. I read a book once that I did enjoy. When I read a negative review of it, I knew right away they had not read the book. They only copied the summary of the story found on Amazon and said they didn't like it as it was horrible and a knock off of one of the bestsellers on the market. After reading the book, I knew for a fact that the stories were nowhere near similar. I dug further and found out that the person gave the exact same review to other books in the same genre. I could only assume they were trying to hurt the competition.
It appears that the reviewer didn't read the book when they don't write anything but a summary of the story. That can easily be found anywhere. Readers want your opinion. Show that you read the book by writing an in-depth review.
Be ethical and read the book. If you can't finish it and still want to review it, note it as a DNF so reviewers are aware of it. And explain why it was only a partial read. A DNF can become a quality review if you explain why. Maybe it was extremely bad editing. Maybe the language was too crude from page one and never improved. Explain to the readers why. It might be a great warning to them not to purchase it if they are if a similar mindset.

 

 

 

 

 













Paid Reviews
 

 

This is a highly contested area of book reviews, but I want to look at the different sides of the argument. And yes, some people get paid to write reviews.
Over the last decade or so, it has been revealed that many people get paid to write positive reviews. Note that I didn't just say they get paid to write reviews. They get paid to write positive reviews. They might or might not have read the book. The end result is that they will give you a glowing review of your book. That is unethical. A review should always be honest. Even if paid for, the review needs to be honest. That being said....
It is not unethical to get paid to read a book and write a review. After all, that is what the ones that write for The New York Times and other places do. These are people paid to review books though not paid to give a specific type of review. Many services are available to authors not to get untruthful reviews but to get the reviews that are so hard to come by and get them promoted through the various venues.
If you are paid to write a review, keep in mind that to stay ethical, you need to state that you were paid for your services in a disclaimer at the end of the review. Stress that you were not paid for a five star review but for your own honest opinion. Doing that, you'll stay ethical.

 

 

 













Honesty

 

 
This is another one I have gotten flack for addressing in this book. But if there wasn't a problem with it, I wouldn't be addressing it. Many people will post a review to help a family member or friend out. Now they might have read the book, but their review is not honest as they don't want to hurt their friend or they want to just help them get attention for their book. That is not honesty though it is done with good intentions.
The same can be said for negative reviews. I have seen reviews written just to get even with an author or to help lower their ratings. The opinions of the reviewer are not honest as it is based on the desire to hurt the author instead of just giving an honest review.
Honesty also has to be seen as we noted above in whether or not you are paid for the review. Were you given an incentive for the review and/or for a desired type of review? Be upfront about your review and keep it all on the up and up. I'll go more in depth a few sections down when we discuss disclaimers.

 













ARCs
 
An ARC is an Advance Reader's Copy. This is a print or electronic version of the book that is not meant for purchase or sale. It is a copy that is not completely proofread yet which means it could have quite a few issues. The purpose of having such copies is to get the book into the hands of reviewers and promoters before the final version for sale is available. That helps in pre-release promotions.
 
Ethically, you should not review the editing and/or formatting of ARCs. The issues you find should not be in the final product. By being given the book, the author and/or publisher is expecting you to overlook those issues and focus more on the story, character, dialogue, and plot. 

 













Negative Reviews
 

 

When it comes to ethics and etiquette, one of the more significant topics is dealing with negative reviews. This is so important, that I'm working on a stand-alone book about it. Why is this such a huge topic? Because it is personal.
Anytime you get personal, it can get heated and ethics and etiquette can be thrown out the window. After all, a review is criticism of some kind. A negative review is taken as critical criticism.
Let me start off by saying that you can say anything in a way that is not mean and is constructive. That should always be your intent when you write a negative review. 












Note the Positive Aspects
 

 

When you review a book, you need to be honest. That means pointing out the bad and the good. The problem with many reviewers is they focus more on the negative instead of the positive. The key to a good book review is a balance. You need to note any positive aspects in a book review.
Pay Attention as You Read 
As you read the book, have a piece of paper nearby to note everything you need to put in your review. That includes any scenes, language, or plot issues you find. Note something good. If some characters had a really great exchange in a scene, note that. If there is one chapter that really stands out as being done well, note that, too. 
Don't let any small thing escape your notice especially if the book is not one you really liked. It is very easy to point out the negative about anything. We have become experts at that. This is the reason that a book review that notes even the smallest positive thing is one that can be respected and admired.
Find Something Positive 
There is generally something positive in anything. I say 'generally' because I have found one book where I could not find one single thing redeeming about it and refused to have it on my blog. I could have noted the good artwork, but I just could not promote it at all for my readers. But there are many books I have found something positive to say in a review. 
 
Was there a particular character done well? 
Were the scenes described well? 
Was the storyline good? 
Does the storyline have potential and how? 
Maybe it is the extensive vocabulary. Look for something unique. Find something that is positive about the book. 
One of the worst things you can do for your credibility is to say there is nothing redeeming about a book. If you do find one that you have to say that, your reputation will enhance that review if your readers see that you are one to find something positive. Someone who is always negative is not a reviewer that gets my attention. 
I recently noted a very nasty review on a book that I had enjoyed. I was curious about the reviewer as her comments seemed filled with venom. I looked at her other reviews. 9 out of 10 were nasty and hateful. That is one reviewer I would never listen to. 
When you write a review, find something positive.

 

 

 













Disclaimers

 

 
Disclaimers have become very important over the last few years. As the rise of reviews paid to be positive, this has become a huge issue. The point of these legal notices is to let your readers know how you got the item you are reviewing and if you were compensated for your review. Most people don't realize that they have to have this disclaimer per federal law. Don't' start sweating. It is easy to do and won't take extra time for you.
You can copy the legal disclaimer if you'd like, but you don't have to. A simple statement will suffice. Here are a few examples:
I received this book from the author with no expectation of a positive review.
This book was provided by the publisher with no expectation of a positive review.
I purchased this book with my own funds with no expectation from the author or publisher for a positive review.
This book was gifted to me by the publisher with no expectation of a positive review in return.
I received this book as part of a virtual book tour with no expectations of a positive review and no compensation for my participation.
See how easy it is? You are just stating where you got the book from, how you got it, and if anything is expected from you for the review. That's all you have to do.










Where to Post Reviews

 

 

 












There are a million and one places to post your book reviews. Okay, in the literal sense there are probably more than that around the world, but for you personally there are probably a little fewer. Let's start with the obvious...your own site.












Own Site
 
Many reviewers like to have their own site to gather their reviews and post them. This allows them to stand out in the reviewer crowd and express some of their individualism.
Pros:
 

                  Complete control - You decide what is posted and when. It is all yours.
                  You can do more than just book reviews. It can be a site that is full of many different topics.

 
Cons:
 

                  It needs to be maintained by you.
                  You are responsible for keeping it updated and fresh.
                  All computer issues are yours.

 

 














 

Amazon

 

This is one of the most obvious places to put your reviews. If you are a regular Amazon purchaser, this can be easy to do. If not, you need to start by reviewing only the items you have purchased from Amazon. This is designed to stop people from peppering the site with their reviews as in a spamming sense. 

 

Goodreads

 

This is a book lover's social networking site owned by Amazon. You can keep track of the books you are reading and post your reviews as well as join in various groups to discuss books. 

 








 
LibraryThing

 

This is another readers' social networking site that has grown over the years. You can post your reviews as well as find new books to review.

 

Shelfari

 

This is another site that is owned by Amazon. I think it was geared to become like Goodreads, but it has not grown that much over the last few years. 

 

Barnes and Noble

 

If you purchase a lot online with Barnes and Noble, you can easily post your reviews. If you don't do business with them, you might find yourself unable to post the reviews. 

 

Other Sites

 

There are other sites looking for book reviewers. Some get so many requests that they cannot keep up with the demand. Starting off on other sites is a great way to get your foot in the door and get your name known. 

 

Periodicals

 

Check your local newspapers and magazines. You might find a great place to publish your reviews and eventually branch out. If you are in a small town, you might find this easier to do. If you are in a big city, keep in mind that the surrounding cities and villages usually have their own papers as well.
 

 









Reviewing Tips

 












Reviewing books can be easy, but there are a few things that you can do to make it better. If you are new to book reviewing, you might not have thought of these things. If you've been doing it for a while, you've might have gotten into a rut.

 













Notebook/Journal
Keep a notebook or journal as you review. It can be a diary of your reviews. This can be fun to look back over and is a lot more personal than reading them all online. You can also use it to take notes as you read in preparation of your review.

 

 

 

Praises and Criticisms

 

Always look for ways to praise a book. I'm not saying gush over it, but point out something positive even if it is just one character or one particular scene. If nothing else, it will challenge you to find those aspects and to write about them.
When it comes to criticism, always look for ways to be constructive. Again, you can take it as a challenge to find unique and creative ways to deliver criticism that isn't unduly harsh or negative.

 

 

 

 

 













Review Template

 

 
If you are one to write a lot of book reviews or plan on doing do, a book review template might help you. It is just a guide to help remind yourself of topics you like to discuss in your reviews. Here is an example of one.
Intro (genre, author, title, pre-recommendation)
Synopsis
Pace
Plot/Storyline
Characters
Writing
Warnings
Praises
Author background
Recommendations
Note: I received this book from _____ with no expectation of a positive review.
Realize that I don't always follow my template to the letter, but it guides me so I don't say, "Rats! I forgot to mention this in my review." It is just a guideline.
A synopsis is always good though don't make that your entire review. Yikes! I hate reviews that just tell me what the book is about. I can find that on Amazon or such. Just give a short synopsis that might interest me and then tell me what you thought about the book and why.
 
Talk about the pace of the book. Is it fast where you couldn't put it down? Was it too slow where you didn't care if you finished it? Was it just right where you could stop and easily slide back into it? Tell me about these things.
How is the storyline? Tell me how intriguing it is or how it flowed. Talk about the plot of the story. That can help me decide if I really want to buy the book or not.
What about the characters? Are they engaging or fun? Tell me what they are like. Tell me who was your favorite and why.
How's the overall writing? Describe the writing style of the author. It could be easy to follow, unique, strange, or fun. Some writers have a sense of humor in all their writings.
Is there anything you need to warn me about? Warn readers about language, explicit scenes, violence, or anything that somebody (doesn't have to be you) might take offense at.
What was great about this book? Sing the book's praises. Tell me what you thought was great about it. Even if it is only one thing, point it out. End the review on a positive note if you can.
Who is this author? I don't always do this, but sometimes it can be really good to describe the background of the author and what other books they have written. Do this especially if it is a book you love.
What do you suggest? Do you recommend this book for me? Tell me how you feel. If you are a reviewer that I follow because we have such similar tastes, this part might be the deciding factor for me.
Always make the note of where you got the book. It is now a law as well as ethically sound to disclose where you got the review. Did you buy it? Did the author give it to you for a review? Did you get it as a gift? 've even noted that I have had the book for years with no idea how I got it. If you are paid to review it, tell that. It is only right that you disclose why you are writing a review.
A template helps you. You can even use it as you read. Note things you want to mention you review. Until you can do this in your sleep, a template can be a great benefit.

 

 

 

 

 













Outside the Box

 

Just because everyone else's reviews look like yours, doesn't mean you have to follow that trend. Think outside the box. One reviewer I know adds a section in her review about new words she has learned while reading that one as well as her favorite quote. What can make your review stand out among all the other reviews?

 








 
Networking

 

 
Take advantage of your book reviewing and network. Get to know the authors. They'll help promote your site as you help to promote their work. You'll find they'll be more inclined to offer you future books and tell other authors about you. You never know when connections will have a huge payoff.

 

Taking it to the Next Level

 

 
You can really take your reviews to the next level. Add various components and complementary posts: author interviews and guest posts. Build a review site others will be envious of.

 

 

 












About Argiletum

 

 
Argelitum was the place to go to in Rome for books and other treasures. It became a place off the main path to the Forum to explore different merchants. Here we are lovers of books with backgrounds in history, English, education, business, and accounting as well as experience in writing and avid readers. Our goal is to explore the love of books and share them with the world.
You can find out more about what we have to offer at http://www.argiletumtransitorium.com.

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
















