 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HUMAN 
SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HUMAN 
SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How you can develop it using recursive self-
improvement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
John Stewart 
 
 
 
 
The Glenroy Press

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copyright © 2024 John Stewart 
All rights reserved 
ISBN-13: 978-1-7636841-0-2 
 
 
Website: humansuperintelligencebook.com

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This book is for my mimetic and genetic grandchildren and great-
grandchildren, especially Winnie, Artie, William, and Jakey 
 
 

 
 

 
 
Table of Contents 
 
Part 1: Introduction 
ix 
The Purpose of the Book 
1 
Recursive Self-Improvement and Superintelligence 
11 
Recognising and Achieving Higher Cognition 
19 
Part 2: A Developmental Odyssey 
35 
Stumbling onto the Path of Recursive Self-Improvement 
37 
Attending the University of Queensland 
47 
Going Fishing and Finding Philosophy 
55 
Back to University 
61 
Working for the Workers 
67 
Working for the Government 
87 
Back to Fishing 
103 
Pretending to Work for the Government 
113 
Evolutionary Progress 
127 
Publishing my Theories 
153 
Working for Evolution 
163 
Working on Awakening 
177 
More Publications and More Awakening 
193 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition 
213 
Origins of Life, Consciousness, and Global Governance 
237 
The Power of the Evolutionary Worldview 
247 
Further Work on Myself 
267 
The Gifts of Autism 
285 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
291 
Part 3: How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
319 

 
 
 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 321 
Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
355 
References 
397 
Index 
401 
 
 
 

 
ix 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 1: Introduction 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
1 
 
1. 
 
 
The Purpose of the Book 
 
Are you able to see your thinking as 'object'? In other words, can you 
mentally stand outside your thinking so that you can examine it, evaluate 
it, and improve it where necessary? 
Without this capacity, you cannot know in detail the thinking 
strategies that you use to solve problems and achieve your goals. Nor 
can you consciously and intentionally improve your thinking strategies 
in the light of experience. 
Do you continually bootstrap your thinking strategies in this 
way? When you find that a thinking strategy fails, do you consciously 
and intentionally use this knowledge about the strategy to identify 
specifically where it is flawed and how it can be fixed? 
If you did this actively and regularly throughout your life, you 
could continually enhance your cognitive capacities. By paying attention 
to your thought processes, you could identify where they could be 
improved and implement the relevant changes. 
Do you regularly use such a meta-learning process and enhance 
it by actively seeking opportunities to test the effectiveness of your 
revised thinking strategies, amending them where they fail, and so on, 
repeatedly? 
Potentially, you could also observe the meta-strategies that you 
use to develop and improve your thinking strategies. This would enable 
you to evaluate and improve them where necessary. 
Are you aware in detail of the meta-thinking strategies that you 
use to generate your thinking strategies? If so, are you able to 
consciously and intentionally improve your meta-strategies when you 
find that they have produced a thinking strategy that is flawed? Do you 
take every opportunity to test your meta-strategies and to improve them 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
2 
 
continually? Do you then use your enhanced meta-strategies to improve 
not only other meta-strategies, but also themselves, recursively? 
Do you celebrate when you find a flaw in your thinking 
strategies or in your meta-thinking strategies because it means that you 
have encountered an opportunity to improve your cognitive capacity? 
Practices and associated knowledge exist that enable individuals 
to self-scaffold the ability to dis-embed from their existing thinking and 
meta-thinking, to see it as object, and to modify and improve their 
thinking as necessary. 
Are you aware of any practices and knowledge that can be used 
in this way? If so, have you made serious and sustained efforts to use 
these practices? If you have yet to do so, but are persuaded in the future 
that these practices could work effectively, would you then make serious 
and persistent efforts to use them? 
In recent years, additional tools have been developed that can 
enhance the process of recursively improving your own cognitive 
capacities. These tools identify the 'movements in thought' that 
constitute the thinking strategies that individuals with higher cognitive 
capacities use to build mental models of complex phenomena.  
Otto Laske, an adult developmentalist, published a 
comprehensive description of these 'movements in thought' in his 
Manual of Dialectical Thought Forms.1 
These tools have two invaluable uses for individuals who set out 
to scaffold their ability to build effective mental models of complex, 
dynamic phenomena: 
First, the tools assist thinkers in identifying where their current 
thinking fails to represent relevant aspects of complex phenomena. The 
use of the thought forms helps thinkers see their existing thinking 
strategies as object and to see their limitations. This assists thinkers in 
identifying what thought processes are missing from their existing 
strategies and from the mental models they build. 
Second, the tools assist thinkers in seeing what they need to 
include in their thinking and how they can include it if they are to 
 
1 Laske (2023) - see References for full citation 

 
The Purpose of the Book 
 
 
3 
 
understand and manipulate complex phenomena. The tools guide 
thinkers in identifying how they can represent these aspects of complex 
reality in their models. 
The 'movements in thought' are particularly effective for 
identifying and overcoming the limitations of what I refer to as 
analytical/rational thinking. This is the level of cognition that underpins 
mainstream science and that powered technological development, 
industrialization, and the First Enlightenment. 
Analytical/rational thinking is very effective for understanding 
those restricted parts of reality that can be represented effectively by 
mechanistic, analysable, reductionist models. However, it is very limited 
in its ability to model and understand phenomena that are too complex 
and dynamic to be represented by mechanistic, analysable models. These 
limitations are the primary reason why mainstream science has failed to 
develop an adequate science of complex, dynamic phenomena. 
Unfortunately, this is a major restriction—most of the phenomena that 
constitute the reality we are embedded in are of this kind. 
Are you aware of the discoveries made by research into the 
'movements in thought' and 'thought forms' used by advanced thinkers 
to build effective models of complex phenomena? Are you aware of how 
individual thinkers can use these discoveries to scaffold their own ability 
to understand and manipulate complex reality? 
If so, have you made efforts to practice the use of these 
'movements in thought'? If not, but if you are persuaded in the future of 
the effectiveness of these tools, would you then be prepared to make the 
considerable efforts necessary to use the tools to scaffold the recursive 
self-improvement of your own cognition? 
The practices that can be used to develop the capacity to dis-
embed from thinking can also be adapted to scaffold the capacity to dis-
embed from dysfunctional emotional predispositions, habitual 
behaviours, conditioning, and so on. 
Are you aware of practices of this kind? If so, have you used 
them to free yourself from the dictates of dysfunctional predispositions 
and negative emotions? Can you see the advantages of doing so? Can 
you see even greater benefits in freeing yourself from all behavioural 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
4 
 
predispositions, enabling you to take whatever action is needed to 
achieve your goals in any given situation? If you knew that these kinds 
of practices can be effective, would you make serious and persistent 
efforts to use them? 
Do you celebrate when you encounter difficulties and challenges, 
particularly ones that produce strong, unpleasant negative emotions, 
because this enables you to practice letting them arise and dissipate, so 
that they will not control your behaviour? 
The adult developmental psychologist Robert Kegan produced a 
simple but powerful model of what occurs when an individual undergoes 
vertical development to a higher level in the cognitive or 
social/emotional domain. His model suggests that vertical development 
occurs when what was part of the subject at one level becomes object to 
a new, higher-level subject.2 
He suggests that when an individual makes such a vertical 
transition in relation to their thinking, their thinking no longer has them. 
Instead, they have their thinking. And when they make this transition in 
relation to emotions, their emotions no longer have them. Instead, they 
have their emotions 
In other words, the individual is no longer embedded in and 
controlled by their thinking or by their emotions. Instead, they can now 
choose if and when to engage in thinking and if and when to give 
attention to emotions that arise in their body. Thinking and emotions 
become tools that the individual can choose whether or not to use, 
freeing them to respond appropriately to the needs of whatever 
circumstances they are in. 
During your life, have you ever set out consciously and 
intentionally to scaffold your own vertical development? Does Kegan's 
description of the fundamental shift that underpins vertical cognitive 
development resonate with anything in your own personal experience? 
What about the shift from emotions having you (e.g., being embedded in 
anger and being consumed by it) to you having your emotions (e.g., 
 
2 Kegan (1982) - see References for full citation 

 
The Purpose of the Book 
 
 
5 
 
noticing that anger has arisen in your body but choosing to let it go by 
without acting on it?) 
The great Armenian systems thinker and developmentalist 
George Gurdjieff advocated the need for humans to become what he 
called 'self-evolving beings'.3 Such a person would be able to remake 
themselves psychologically in whatever ways were necessary to meet 
the needs and demands of future evolution. 
Their behaviour and psychology would no longer be controlled 
by the dictates of their biological and cultural evolutionary past and by 
their conditioning. Now, they would be able to move at right angles to 
the predispositions they have inherited and developed. Instead of serving 
the needs of past evolution, they would have the capacity to consciously 
and intentionally choose to do whatever is beneficial for the future 
evolutionary flourishing of humanity. As a self-evolving being, they 
would have the capacity to find motivation and satisfaction in whatever 
this requires them to do. 
Are you aware of the concept of a self-evolving being? If so, are 
you aware of practices and associated knowledge that can be used to 
scaffold this capacity? Can you see how the emergence of self-evolving 
beings on any planet on which life emerges fundamentally changes the 
nature of the evolutionary process on that planet? 
But what are the practical consequences of the emergence of 
self-evolving organisms on Earth? What will individuals who develop a 
capacity for self-evolution actually do with their lives? What strategies 
would they pursue if their goal is to contribute to the future evolutionary 
flourishing of humanity and life on Earth? 
Fortunately, evolution science is beginning to answer this 
question as it develops a comprehensive understanding of the large-scale 
evolutionary processes that have made humans what we are and will 
shape our evolution into the future. 
It is becoming increasingly evident that evolution has a 
trajectory. We can locate current humanity along this trajectory. This 
enables us to see how we must change our social systems and 
 
3 e.g., see Ouspensky (1949) - see References for full citation 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
6 
 
psychology if we are to remain aligned with this trajectory in the future. 
If we can use our understanding of the direction of evolution in this way, 
we can survive and thrive indefinitely into the future, using the 
trajectory of evolution to guide what we do and how we evolve. 
Broadly, evolution's trajectory is towards increasing integration 
and evolvability (evolvability is the ability to discover and implement 
effective adaptation. It improves as evolution advances. At the human 
level, a major component of this capacity is intelligence). 
The trajectory towards increasing integration has produced the 
step-wise increases in the scale of cooperative organisation that 
characterise the long evolution of life on Earth. The first simple cells 
were cooperatives of self-producing molecular process. Cooperatives of 
these simple cells gave rise to the more complex eukaryote cell. 
Cooperatives of these produced multicellular organisms, and these 
eventually gave rise to cooperative animal societies. 
This pattern has been repeated throughout human evolution, 
producing cooperative groups of increasing scale and evolvability: kin 
groups banded together to form tribal societies, cooperatives of these 
produced city-states, and further repetitions of this process produced 
kingdoms, empires, and eventually nation-states. 
A proper understanding of this trajectory and the evolutionary 
forces that drive it reveals the next great step in the evolution of life on 
Earth: the integration of humanity and life on Earth into a unified, 
cooperative, and highly-evolvable global society. 
It is worth emphasising at this point that this next great 
evolutionary transition in the evolution of life on earth is not something 
that will happen in the far-flung future. Rather, if this step does not 
occur this century, it will likely never happen on this planet. The 
destructive competition between nation-states, corporations, and other 
entities that is generating global environmental destruction and the threat 
of nuclear annihilation is highly likely to end human civilization this 
century unless significant changes are made. 
Unless we take this next great evolutionary step soon, life on 
Earth will likely become a failed evolutionary experiment. Instead of 

 
The Purpose of the Book 
 
 
7 
 
hatching a global entity, life on Earth will be an egg that never hatches 
and instead goes rotten. 
It is of utmost importance to recognise that the next great 
evolutionary steps towards increasing integration and evolvability will 
not occur automatically. If these steps are to occur, humans will need to 
drive them consciously and intentionally. 
Natural selection cannot be relied upon to generate the 
emergence and development of an evolvable global entity. This is 
despite the fact that evolution has got us to this point automatically, 
driven by natural selection at the genetic and cultural levels. However, 
there is no population of global entities that will compete to produce the 
natural selection that could drive the evolution and development of 
global entities. 
When the evolution of life on a planet reaches the point reached 
by life on Earth, it will proceed further only if it is driven consciously 
and intentionally. Humans, therefore, have a critically important role in 
ensuring that the evolutionary process on Earth continues successfully. 
Viewing this unfolding evolutionary process from the broadest 
perspective, it is as if we are living within a process that is destined to 
hatch an integrated entity on the scale of the planet. 
But this developmental trajectory has a surprising feature. 
Although evolution has proceeded automatically along the trajectory up 
until now, it will not continue to do so. Earth will fulfill its destiny of 
hatching a global-scale entity only if certain conditions are met: humans 
must wake up to the nature of the developmental process in which they 
are embedded; see that they have an essential role to play if the process 
is to be completed successfully; and decide consciously and intentionally 
to do whatever is necessary to establish and develop a highly-evolvable 
and cooperative global entity. 
As I have noted, if humans do not do this, it is unlikely that 
human civilization will survive this century. Only by performing their 
apparent evolutionary function can humanity survive and thrive 
indefinitely into the future and contribute positively to the future 
evolution of life in the universe. It is only to the extent that an individual 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
8 
 
pursues pro-evolutionary goals that their life can make sense in a larger 
scheme of things which has the potential to continue long after they die. 
The same evolutionary forces that drive this developmental 
process on Earth will arise on every planet where life emerges and 
evolves. 
Are you aware of this emerging evolutionary worldview? If so, 
do you have the cognitive capacity to understand it in full and to work 
out in detail its implications for humanity in general, and for yourself in 
particular? Can you use it to identify how you can live a life that is 
meaningful in a larger, evolutionary scheme of things? 
Does it seem plausible to you that you have a critical role to play 
in the future evolution of life on this planet and beyond? Have you 
grasped that if you are to undertake such a role successfully, you will 
need to develop the capacity to become a self-evolving being? Do you 
understand that this will be necessary if you are to free yourself from the 
dictates of past evolution so that you can find motivation and purpose in 
doing whatever is necessary to meet the demands of future evolution? 
Is your current cognitive capacity sufficiently developed to 
understand that analytical/rational thinking is woefully inadequate for 
understanding the evolutionary worldview and its detailed implications, 
including understanding how a global society can be established and 
organised? Is it therefore clear to you that a priority for the advancement 
of the evolutionary process on Earth at this time is to spread across 
humanity the higher cognitive capacities needed to understand the 
relevant evolutionary processes and their implications? Do you also see 
that you face an evolutionary imperative to work on yourself to scaffold 
these higher cognitive capacities in yourself? 
The central aim of this book is to facilitate the spread of higher 
cognition across humanity. Consequently, a key goal is to identify how 
we can recursively improve our own cognitive capacities and to scaffold 
higher cognition in others. 
By higher cognition, I mean at least the capacity to construct 
mental models that underpin the ability to understand and influence 
complex, dynamic phenomena. Foremost amongst these are models of 
the large-scale evolutionary processes that have shaped us and will 

 
The Purpose of the Book 
 
 
9 
 
determine the future of humanity and life in the universe. This includes 
constructing models of the evolution of our social systems so that we 
can see how we will need to reorganise our societies as we evolve into 
the future. 
The book's central focus on cognitive development serves a 
larger, wider goal. The book is a conscious and intentional attempt to 
facilitate the spread of the enabling capacities needed to empower 
humanity to advance the evolutionary process on Earth and contribute 
positively to the future evolution of life in the universe. 
 
 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
10 
 
 
 

 
11 
 
2. 
 
 
 
Recursive Self-Improvement and Superintelligence 
 
The idea that 'superintelligence' can be achieved by recursive self-
improvement was developed initially in relation to artificial intelligence, 
not humans. 
According to leading futurists, philosophers and AI scientists, the 
eventual emergence of AI that is superintelligent is highly likely. It is 
only a question of when. But none of these thinkers have argued that 
superintelligent humans are at least as likely.4 
The predictions about the inevitability of the emergence of 
superintelligent AI are founded on the idea of recursive self-
improvement. Recursive self-improvement requires two interrelated 
capacities. 
The first is the ability to self-improve intelligence. AI that has 
this capacity would be able to use its intelligence and creativity to re-
make itself in ways that enhance its existing intelligence. For example, it 
could change its software or hardware in particular ways that increase it 
capacity to solve problems intelligently. 
The second is the capacity that has the potential to turbo-charge 
the emergence of ever-improving intelligence. It involves the AI 
recursively using its ability to improve itself. First, it develops higher 
intelligence, then uses this higher intelligence to improve its intelligence 
further, then it uses this to improve further, and so on. 
But would not recursive self-improvement apply equally to 
humans? What would prevent humans from developing the ability to use 
their intelligence to enhance their own intelligence? 
 
4 e.g., see Bostrom (2014) - see References for full citation 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
12 
 
In particular, humans appear to have the potential to become 
aware of their own thought processes, identify where the ability of those 
processes to solve particular problems could be improved, and adopt 
those improvements. Then, they could use their enhanced intelligence to 
discover and implement further improvements in intelligence, and so on 
and so on, recursively. 
At least at first glance, the potential of recursive self-
improvement to produce superintelligence in humans seems to be as 
feasible and conceivable as it is for AI. But if so, why have not the 
prophets of recursive self-improvement and superintelligence in AI also 
predicted the emergence of superintelligence in humans? 
A plausible explanation is that they have no direct experience of 
recursively improving their intelligence. This is not to suggest that the 
futurists, philosophers, and AI scientists whom we are discussing lack 
intelligence. By any measure, some of them are amongst the finest 
minds around at the beginning of the 21st century. But their highly 
developed intelligence is not self-made. Nor do they appear to be in the 
process of re-making it to enhance it further. 
Their writings support this interpretation. They do not claim to 
have intentionally and consciously improved their own intelligence. Nor 
do they point to others who have. More significantly, they do not even 
appear to understand how humans could actually escalate their 
intelligence. They have not developed adequate theories and mental 
models about how human intelligence functions, let alone used such 
models to identify how current levels of intelligence could be enhanced. 
This view of the limitations of current futurists is reinforced by 
the fact that when they write about enhancing human capacities, they 
tend to focus on external technological aids, not on enhancing our 
internal cognitive processes. 
I agree with the transhumanists that technological advances will 
inevitably enhance human capacities to some extent, as they have 
already. However, that is not what this book is about. Here, I will focus 
on the far more significant enhancements that can be achieved through 
recursive self-improvement of our internal psychological capacities. 

 
Recursive Self-Improvement and Superintelligence 
 
 
13 
 
The lack of understanding amongst futurists, philosophers, and 
AI researchers about the functioning of human intelligence and 
cognition is further evidenced by the current lack of knowledge about 
building human-level artificial general intelligence. It is widely accepted 
by leading thinkers that current AI, with its heavy reliance on deep 
neural networks, falls far short of achieving human-level general 
intelligence. This is despite the impressive ability of current AI to learn 
how to beat all humans at chess and other games and its ability to mimic 
some of the outputs of human cognition, such as engaging in apparently 
intelligent conversations. 
However, this manifest lack of understanding about how higher 
intelligence can actually be produced does not seem to have shaken the 
belief that AI intelligence can escalate indefinitely. Far from it. In fact, 
this lack of understanding has seemingly removed any barriers to the 
blind extrapolation of improvements in AI intelligence way into the 
future. 
If you do not have any idea about how higher intelligence can 
actually be produced, it is easy to imagine that AI can use recursive self-
improvement to generate unimaginable levels of intelligence. Practical 
details and obstacles could only get in the way of such clear-sky 
hypothesising and dreaming. 
However, fortunately for the prophesiers, not enough is known 
about superintelligence to refute their blind extrapolations and hand-
waving about the potential of AI. This enables them to make their 
extrapolations with the same certainty that an intelligent person in the 
19th century could blindly predict that there would be no limits to the 
speed that humans and their technology could achieve. Extrapolation of 
the progressive improvements that had already been achieved suggested 
that super speeds would eventually be reached, far surpassing the speed 
of light. 
For these reasons, futurists can get away with making blind 
predictions about the potential of AI. However, it is not so easy to get 
away unchallenged with predictions about the potential of humans to 
escalate their own intelligence. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
14 
 
Anyone who makes strong claims about such a potential will 
soon have to face an aggressive challenge: If you know so much about 
how humans can recursively self-improve their own intelligence, 
demonstrate that you have done so yourself. Show us that you not only 
can talk the talk, but that you can also walk the talk. Show us the money! 
It is a similar reaction to that faced by anyone who starts telling 
people how they can achieve spiritual enlightenment. 
Merely glancing at the title of this book tends to produce such a 
reaction: Seriously, who does this guy think he is? He seems to believe 
he is much smarter than Einstein. If he is superintelligent, why isn't he 
already world-famous? Where are his Noble Prizes? Why hasn't his 
scientific work been universally acclaimed by scientists? Why is he not a 
billionaire? How come he is not dating a famous actress or supermodel? 
Why have I not seen him on Joe Rogan's podcast? Or on the cover of 
Rolling Stone?  And so on and so on, coloured by whatever fantasy they 
would hope to live out if they were a super genius. 
You can be reasonably sure that anyone who is not scared off by 
these inevitable challenges will fall into either of two categories. First, 
they may be seriously deluded. Alternatively, they may be absolutely 
certain about how higher cognition can be scaffolded, and they may 
have used this knowledge to enhance their own cognition. 
Which category do I fall into? Am I really claiming that I know 
how humans can use recursive self-improvement to escalate their 
intelligence significantly and that I will reveal this knowledge in this 
book? And if so, where is the evidence that I have applied this 
knowledge to myself? 
These are reasonable questions to ask in the circumstances. 
However, unless you have developed higher cognition already, you are 
not yet equipped to judge the accuracy of my claims. In order to do so, 
you will first have to read this book in full so that you can develop an 
understanding of the methods it outlines for escalating your cognition.  
But reading and understanding the book will not be enough. You 
will then need to make some progress in applying the practices and 
developing the skills that are outlined in the book. You will need to 

 
Recursive Self-Improvement and Superintelligence 
 
 
15 
 
begin to work on recursively improving your own intelligence. The book 
will tell you how. 
It is only after you make some progress in developing higher 
cognition are you will possess undeniable evidence that the practices 
outlined in the book are valid. And, it is only when you develop higher 
cognition to some degree that you will be capable of understanding the 
materials presented by the book. 
However, in these introductory chapters, I will begin by 
attempting to give you a 'feel' for what it might be like to have higher 
intelligence and some of the challenges involved in trying to develop it. 
This will lead to some understanding of why individuals at current levels 
will not easily understand what higher intelligence entails. It will also 
explain why they cannot detect it easily in others. We will see that 
whatever your level of intelligence and cognition, it will not be obvious 
to you whether someone else is operating at a qualitatively higher level. 
But first, I need to outline briefly what I mean when I use the 
terms intelligence and superintelligence. Broadly, in the sense I am 
using it, intelligence is the capacity to develop and implement strategies 
that enable the achievement of particular goals. You are using a form of 
intelligence when you figure out what you have to do to get what you 
want or when you solve problems. 
Some forms of intelligence may be better than others in specific 
circumstances—they may be more effective at achieving particular 
goals. In this sense, it is possible to rank different forms of intelligence 
in terms of their effectiveness. Broadly, I will use the term 
superintelligence when referring to forms of intelligence that are far 
superior at achieving human goals than are current levels of human 
intelligence. As we will see, the way in which superintelligence achieves 
this is largely unimaginable to those at current levels of human 
intelligence. 
Broadly, this usage of the concept of 'superintelligence' is 
similar to the way in which philosopher Nick Bostrom uses it. He 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
16 
 
defines it as "any intellect that greatly exceeds the cognitive 
performance of humans in virtually all domains of interest."5 
It is worth emphasising here that the sense in which I am using 
the term intelligence includes the capacity to actually implement the 
strategies that are developed by intelligence. In order to act intelligently, 
individuals need to be able to implement the insights it provides. But 
many cannot do this at present, at least in some circumstances. This is 
because our strategies are often waylaid by conflicting wants and 
desires. To take a simple example, we may know that losing weight is in 
our overall interests, but we cannot find the motivation and drive to 
implement the strategies we know can achieve it. 
For these reasons, if humans are to act intelligently, we need to 
be able to free ourselves from the dictates of conflicting motivations and 
predispositions inherited from our biological, cultural, and social past. 
Currently, these can sabotage the achievement of our larger goals. 
Knowing what to do is not much use if you cannot actually do it. How to 
develop such a capacity is a significant theme in this book. 
Another important distinction is between improvements in 
intelligence that are horizontal and those that are vertical. Horizontal 
development applies the existing level of intelligence to new problems 
that can be solved at that level of intelligence. In contrast, vertical 
development involves the emergence of a new, higher level of 
intelligence that can solve problems that cannot be dealt with at the 
previous level of intelligence. 
As an example, consider the level of intelligence that first 
became widespread with the unfolding of the European Enlightenment, 
which began in the 17th century. The new kind of thinking that spread at 
this time resulted from the emergence of a new, higher level of 
intelligence that powered the rise of science, technology, and modernity 
more generally. It entailed a vertical enhancement of intelligence. In 
contrast, the use of this new level of cognition to generate seemingly 
endless scientific and technological discoveries represents horizontal 
development. 
 
5 Bostrom (2014) - See References for full citation 

 
Recursive Self-Improvement and Superintelligence 
 
 
17 
 
It is also worth underlining here that vertical differences in 
intelligence and cognitive ability are not synonymous at all with 
differences in IQ. 
This book will argue that the next great vertical development in 
human intelligence will drive the emergence of a global Second 
Enlightenment. The book will outline how this new level can be 
developed intentionally. The long sequence of scientific and other 
discoveries that will be produced by Second Enlightenment thinking will 
represent the horizontal development of this new level. 
 
 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
18 
 
 
 

 
19 
 
3. 
 
 
 
Recognising and Achieving Higher Cognition 
 
This brings us back to the issues I raised earlier. How can you 
recognise this new, higher level of intelligence in others and in yourself? 
How will this new level of intelligence manifest? How can you develop 
it? What will acquiring Second Enlightenment thinking enable you and 
others to do that you cannot do now? More pointedly, how would you 
know whether someone who writes a book about how higher levels of 
intelligence can be developed knows what they are talking about? What 
will the money that they need to show you look like? 
In order to begin to answer these questions, it is useful to 
examine some examples of vertical differences in intelligence that may 
be within your experience. In particular, I will focus on examples where 
you may have some direct experience of the operation of a lower level 
and also of the operation of a level that is higher than that. This will 
enable you to get some feeling for how the higher level might look from 
the perspective of the lower one, and vice versa. 
The first example builds on an experience familiar to many 
owners of dogs and also to carers of two-year-old children. When a dog 
owner is annoyed by something the dog has done and raises their voice 
to chastise it, the dog may respond by rushing to the lounge room couch 
and pushing its head under it. The dog acts as if it believes that because 
it can no longer see its owner, its owner can no longer see it. The 
bemused owner stands behind the dog, whose rump is in full sight. The 
dog's devilishly clever strategy had failed completely. 
Investigations of this kind of scenario suggest that the dog's 
tactics result from what has been termed 'slavery to its visual field'. An 
individual who is a slave to its visual field is unaware of anything 
outside its visual or other sensory fields. As the individual uses its 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
20 
 
intelligence in its attempts to solve adaptive challenges, it is incapable of 
taking into account anything outside those fields. It has no capacity to 
'go offline' mentally from its visual field, to imagine what might be 
there in its external environment, and to adapt accordingly. 
In contrast, most dog owners have a very highly developed 
capacity to go offline from their visual field and use mental 
representations that enable them to imagine how the world is likely to be 
when they are not actually seeing it. So, when owners mentally put 
themselves in the position of their dog, they tend to work on the 
assumption that the dog has a similar basic intelligence to themselves 
and are consequently astonished by the dog's apparent stupidity. 
Children up to two or three years of age are also slaves to their 
sensory fields. They have not yet developed the capacity to go offline 
mentally and to take into account mental representations of what they 
are unable to sense. Consequently, parents often have a similar 
experience to dog owners when they are playing hide-and-seek with 
their toddlers. The toddler apparently believes it has successfully hidden 
from its parents by pushing its head under a pillow, although the rest of 
its body is in plain sight. 
These examples illustrate a key way in which intelligences that 
are at different vertical levels differ from each other. Intelligence at the 
higher level considers factors to which the lower level is blind. When 
these factors are relevant to how the higher intelligence can achieve its 
goals, it can adapt far more effectively. But the lower intelligence cannot 
possibly understand why the higher intelligence acts the way it does, 
even if their goals are identical—the lower intelligence is incapable of 
considering these relevant factors when it assesses what it will do to 
achieve its goals. It cannot 'see' them. 
When interacting with intelligence at a lower level, the higher-
level intelligence can be completely mystified about why the lower level 
ignores important factors that are patently obvious and relevant. In 
contrast, when a lower-level intelligence interacts with a higher one, it 
tends to see the higher intelligence as acting in ways that are 
inexplicable to it and do not make sense. Using the criteria that the lower 
level takes into account when it adapts, the higher-level intelligence can 

 
Recognising and Achieving Higher Cognition 
 
 
21 
 
seem deranged. Even where the higher intelligence is manifestly 
superior at achieving common goals, the lower intelligence will not 
understand how the higher intelligence does it—it will seem to be using 
magic.  
In particular, in the case of the dog thrusting its head under the 
couch, there is nothing the bemused owner can say or do that will enable 
the dog to suddenly develop the capacity to represent mentally the owner 
standing right behind it. Its brain processes would have to be radically 
reorganised in order to develop such a capacity. 
It is useful to look briefly at an example of humans differing 
vertically in intelligence. Adult humans generally have the cognitive 
capacity to go offline mentally, to form mental representations of 
relevant circumstances outside their visual field, and to use those 
representations to work out how they might adapt to achieve their goals. 
But as we consider later in the book, there are a number of 
distinct levels of cognitive development amongst humans. These 
correspond to vertical differences in the capacity to construct and use 
mental representations and models. As we will see in detail, as 
individuals move up these levels, they develop the ability to construct 
mental models of increasing complexity. This enables them to adapt and 
strategize successfully in circumstances of greater and greater 
complexity. 
Here, we will take a specific example that deals with the level of 
cognitive development known as the concrete operations level. At this 
level, individuals can envisage mental models of concrete features of 
their environment. These features are concrete in the sense that they can 
be seen, touched, and felt. Such individuals are able to build a mental 
model of some concrete features of their environment and envisage the 
possible concrete actions they could take to interact with these features 
in order to achieve their goals. In their heads, they can play with their 
mental representations, trying our different interactions in order to 
evaluate which sequences of possible actions will get them what they 
want. 
The specific example I will examine concerns the ex-British 
Prime Minister, Maggie Thatcher. Her actions and statements indicate 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
22 
 
that she was highly capable and intelligent at her level, but was restricted 
primarily to the concrete-operations level. This enabled her to talk and 
behave in ways that seemed authentic to British voters who were 
cognitively limited in a similar way. 
Famously, Thatcher declared with absolute conviction and 
certainty that: "there is no such thing as society. There are individual 
men and women, and there are families." 
She was not engaging in political spin and manipulation when 
she said this. What she said accurately reflected her direct experience of 
the world. She was simply reporting how the world looked to her, as 
seen through the prism of her limited mental models. She was reporting 
precisely how reality is experienced by any human who is at the 
concrete operations level of cognitive development. She was as certain 
about her statement as a dog is certain that when its head is under the 
couch, its angry owner can no longer see it. 
It is not difficult to understand why Thatcher and others at the 
concrete operations level fail to 'see' societies. To understand their 
perspective, we need to imagine experiencing the world as if we were 
restricted to concrete mental representations. When you walk through 
the streets of a major city and consider only the concrete events around 
you, you will never see a society. Nor will you see an economic system.  
If you are restricted to the concrete level, you will see only 
concrete interactions between individuals. You will see individuals 
exchanging goods for money, people talking, and so on. In order to see 
beyond these concrete interactions and to see a social or economic 
system, you need to be capable of also developing mental 
representations that go beyond the concrete. You have to imagine 
processes and patterns that are not concretely experienced as you move 
through the world. 
To 'see' a system, you have to construct mental representations 
of the abstract relationships between system components, including 
patterns of behaviour, feedback loops, and other system-level cybernetic 
processes. None of this will show up in your concrete experience. You 
must imagine them and hypothesise them. 

 
Recognising and Achieving Higher Cognition 
 
 
23 
 
Without these abstract mental representations, societies or other 
systems will not exist for you. They will not exist for you in the same 
way that a dog's owner cannot exist for a dog if the owner is not in the 
dog's visual field—the dog does not have the capacity to go offline and 
represent its owner mentally. 
Just as a dog is a slave to its visual field, Maggie Thatcher and 
others at the concrete operations level are slaves to concrete thinking. 
This does not mean that concrete thinkers are unable to talk 
intelligently about social systems and discuss their characteristics. But it 
does mean that the mental representations that they have in their heads 
when they do so are concrete. For them, the images they have in their 
minds when they talk and think about social systems are representations 
of concrete events, not abstract representations of systems. 
As with the previous examples I have given, individuals at a 
higher level of cognition will often be completely mystified by the 
apparent inability of concrete thinkers to 'see' what is so obvious to 
them. They will often be astounded by the strategies developed by 
concrete thinkers to achieve particular goals—the strategies will often 
ignore factors that are critically important for accomplishing the goals. 
In contrast, concrete thinkers will be equally mystified that the 
strategies developed by those at the next level are based on unfounded 
theoretical nonsense that has no solid basis in the real world they 
experience. 
Because the world is often more complex than concrete thinkers 
can represent in their mental models, they will often find that their 
strategies are undermined by factors they are unaware of. They are 
frequently blindsided by events that 'came out of left field'. This is 
because their concrete thinking leaves out aspects of reality that are 
highly relevant to their strategies and goals. However, they tend to 
conclude that these events are intrinsically unknowable and cannot be 
understood by any form of rigorous cognition. 
It is also worth noting here that the giant gulf between different 
levels of vertical development is not easily bridged. Vertical 
development typically requires the emergence of complex new brain 
processes. In the case of the dog, it is no small thing to install in it the 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
24 
 
mental capacity to go offline from its visual field and to build new 
mental representations of other relevant factors. It is much the same for 
Maggie Thatcher and others at the concrete level of cognition. There is 
no simple way to install in them the capacity to build abstract mental 
representations of systems that include new elements that are not 
concrete. 
Significantly, this cannot be achieved by pointing out to them the 
limitations of their current thinking and by describing to them what they 
are missing. Or by setting it all out in a book and getting them to read it 
carefully. These approaches will not reorganise the minds of concrete 
thinkers in ways that build entirely new capacities. Instead, individuals 
at the concrete level will tend to interpret concretely any words you use 
to describe the factors left out by their current thinking. 
When you wax eloquently about the characteristics of social 
systems that are highly relevant to achieving their goals but are absent 
from their understanding, they will interpret your words as referring to 
concrete events and interactions. The words that you use to describe 
these characteristics will not call up into their minds abstract 
representations of the characteristics. They will never have used or 
experienced the mental representations that your words and sentences 
are attempting to refer to. They cannot understand representations that 
are missing from their mental life. And they will be absolutely certain 
that how they 'do the world' is the right way, and that your way is 
deluded and wrong. 
Typical concrete operations thinkers believe unshakeably that 
they can understand the answers to all questions that can be answered 
properly. When they cannot understand the answers that you are trying 
to give them, they can arrive at only one conclusion: you are talking 
nonsense. 
It is similar for individuals who are at the analytical/rational 
level. As I have mentioned, this is the cognitive level that gave rise to 
the First Enlightenment and that produced modern science and 
technology. Analytical/rational thinking goes beyond concrete thinking 
in that it can include abstractions in the mental models it builds. 

 
Recognising and Achieving Higher Cognition 
 
 
25 
 
However, it tends to be reductionist, analytical, and mechanistic, which 
is ineffective for modelling complex phenomena. 
Nevertheless, First Enlightenment thinkers tend to be absolutely 
convinced that their thinking is capable of answering all questions about 
reality that can be answered. They believe that they, as individuals, can 
understand all accurate answers. Like the concrete operations thinkers 
before them, they believe that models and understandings of reality that 
are produced by levels of cognition that are higher than theirs do not 
make sense and often border on woo-woo. They are slaves to 
analytical/rational thinking. 
I will give one further illustration of the giant gap between 
different vertical levels of intelligence and of the difficulty that 
individuals at a lower level have in understanding how a higher level 
operates, including by failing to recognise the precise nature of its 
adaptive advantages. This example relates to vertical improvements in 
the capacity of the individual to actually implement the strategies that 
the individual has devised. 
As mentioned, this line of development includes the capacity to 
free oneself from the dictates of motivations and emotions that would 
otherwise undermine the individual's ability to implement optimal 
strategies. This capacity is essential if we are to achieve our goals in the 
world. As we shall see, improvements in this capacity are critically 
important if humans are to deal effectively with the existential threats 
that humanity currently faces. 
The lower level in this example is the dreaming state that all 
humans are familiar with. When we are dreaming, we experience 
ourselves as acting in ways that make sense while we are dreaming. 
However, our actions often seem absurd and irrational once we have 
awoken and remember the dream. If we examine our dream from the 
perspective of the waking state, we can gain some insight into what it is 
about dreaming that produces this apparently absurd and maladaptive 
behaviour. 
In particular, we see that when we are dreaming, we have a very 
limited capacity to make conscious choices and consider alternative 
actions and perspectives. Our decisions tend to make sense in the dream 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
26 
 
because they are made using this limited and restricted awareness. But 
once we wake up from the dream, we see additional possibilities that we 
could have chosen. These alternatives did not exist for us in the 
dreaming state. 
Consequently, in a dream, we often find ourselves acting 
automatically in response to narrow motivations and impulses. If we 
were facing similar circumstances when we were awake, we would have 
been able to 'stand outside' of the situation and consider alternative 
actions, at least to some extent. But in the dream, our awareness is 
embedded in these motivations and impulses and in the actions they 
drive. They seem to have absolute control over us. We have no 
conscious choice about them. In contrast to what we seem to experience 
in the waking state, there is no independent 'I' that makes choices about 
things. 
To varying degrees, the world's great spiritual and religious 
traditions have pointed to a third state that is vertically above both the 
dreaming and normal waking states. This third state is often referred to 
as 'being awake' or as 'awakening in the midst of ordinary life'. It is 
claimed to be as different from the normal waking state as that state is 
from dreaming.  
When individuals awaken in the midst of ordinary life, they 
typically see some of their previous behaviours and actions as absurd 
and maladaptive. When awakened individuals evaluate these past 
behaviours, they are able to take into account things that were previously 
not in their awareness. Importantly, they are now much more able to 
make conscious choices about whether to act on particular motivations 
and predispositions. Previously, these tended to be acted upon 
automatically, with little conscious evaluation. No longer are they 
largely embedded in and controlled by their motivational and emotional 
systems—instead of emotions and motivations having them, they now 
have emotions and motivations. 
From a broader perspective, they are now free from the dictates 
of the predispositions implanted in them by their evolutionary past and 
their upbringing. In their awakened state, they can now consciously 
choose to move at right angles to these dictates whenever it is in their 

 
Recognising and Achieving Higher Cognition 
 
 
27 
 
wider interests to do so. Their ability to achieve longer-term goals is no 
longer undermined and sabotaged by lower-level motivations, desires 
and drives that they were previously embedded in. They are well on the 
way to becoming self-evolving beings. 
Once individuals awaken in the midst of ordinary life, they also 
have the capacity to dis-embed from their thinking. Thoughts no longer 
have them. Thinking is now something that they can choose to engage in 
consciously or not. They can be in the present moment with a still mind, 
rather than embedded in thoughts about the future and the past. 
This enables them to access a still mind at will. This, in turn, is 
particularly conducive to using awareness, intuitions, and emotional 
intelligence that were previously crowded out and blocked by their 
almost incessant embeddedness in thinking. Dis-embedding from 
thinking also enables individuals to stand outside their thinking and see 
it as object in real-time. This enables them to see its limitations and see 
where they need to work on it in order to overcome its deficiencies. 
However, dis-embedding from current modes of thinking will not 
automatically lift an individual to a higher level of cognitive 
intelligence. In order to achieve this, you will also need to develop the 
particular mental skills and thought processes that constitute cognitive 
intelligence at that higher level. Dis-embedding from your current level 
of thinking and feeling is an enabling step that is critically important, but 
it is not sufficient by itself. 
As for any vertical shift in development, waking up in the midst 
of ordinary life is not simple. It is extremely challenging and requires 
significant persistent effort. It has been said that it requires the 
individual to work on themselves so hard that the soles of their feet will 
sweat. 
Individuals in the normal, unawakened state experience reality 
and their being-in-the-world quite differently from those who have 
awakened in the midst of ordinary life. Until they awaken, they have not 
experienced what it is like to operate at the higher level, and therefore do 
not know the meaning of words that refer to those experiences. 
Consequently, any attempt to describe to them verbally or in writing 
what it is like to operate at that level will tend to fail. Furthermore, to 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
28 
 
them, the actions and behaviours of those who are awake will often seem 
absurd and inexplicable, warranting disparagement and even 
punishment. 
The world's spiritual and contemplative traditions have 
developed practices that are intended to develop some capacity to wake 
up, at least while sitting in a quiet room on a meditation cushion. The 
difficulty involved in producing such a vertical transition is 
demonstrated by the fact that the traditions produce few individuals who 
are fully awake in the midst of ordinary life. 
For the reasons we have been exploring, individuals who aspire 
to awaken find it notoriously difficult to identify teachers/gurus who are 
awake and who have the capacity to help them awaken. Furthermore, it 
is evident that the transition is rarely produced by reading a book or 
studying theories or explanations of awakening. 
As we will explore in greater detail in the book, this is partly 
because vertical development invariably requires the development of 
procedural knowledge, not just declarative knowledge. Procedural 
knowledge is knowledge that is embodied in skills (including physical, 
emotional, and mental skills) and it is often indescribable using 
language. In contrast, declarative knowledge is knowledge that can be 
put into words. 
A classic example of procedural knowledge at the physical level 
is the ability to hit an effective serve in tennis. You cannot learn to serve 
well just by reading a book about serving. It is the same at the emotional 
and cognitive levels. Philosopher Michael Polanyi was referring to 
procedural and other non-declarative knowledge when he said: "We 
know more than we can tell." 
In fact, as we investigate vertical development more deeply, we 
will find that the next great vertical leap in human intelligence (the 
transition to Second Enlightenment cognition) requires the acquisition of 
both procedural and declarative knowledge. It necessitates integrating 
purely cognitive, thought-based abilities with capacities associated with 
emotions, feelings, and intuition. 
More metaphorically, this can be referred to as the integration of 
the left and right brain, of heart and head, and of feminine as well as 

 
Recognising and Achieving Higher Cognition 
 
 
29 
 
masculine ways of knowing. As we will see in detail, pattern recognition 
and other resources associated with these capacities that are not thought-
based are essential for building the intricate mental models and 
representations that enable the understanding of complex phenomena. 
I will refer to this higher-level Second Enlightenment thinking as 
metasystemic cognition. It is the ability to build and use mental models 
of complex, dynamic phenomena. 
It is worth emphasising here that metasystemic cognition should 
not be confused with what is currently referred to as systems thinking or 
systems science. As will be discussed later in the book, most of what 
passes for systems science at present is actually an analytical/rational 
reduction of complex phenomena. It is what is produced when 
analytical/rational science attempts to understand complex, dynamic 
phenomena. 
Metasystemic cognition is very different from what is contained 
in textbooks on systems thinking. Its models cannot be reduced to 
mechanistic diagrams. Genuine systems thinkers use metasystemic 
thinking to generate complex insights that are then reduced to produce 
the analytical/rational representations presented in the textbooks. 
The significance of the transition to metasystemic cognition is 
also worth underlining here. It is much more important than other 
vertical transitions in cognition previously achieved by humanity. This is 
because most phenomena that impact humans significantly are complex 
phenomena. They cannot be properly understood and manipulated 
without metasystemic cognition. Without metasystemic cognition, you 
cannot make sense of and understand complex reality. 
For example, it is only with the emergence of a capacity for 
metasystemic cognition that humanity can understand the large-scale 
evolutionary processes that have produced us and that will determine our 
future. Only then can we become aware of the trajectory of evolution 
and of the essential role that humans need to play in the future evolution 
of life on Earth. These realizations can provide meaning and purpose for 
human existence. They can achieve this without having to rely on belief 
in supernatural entities. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
30 
 
Furthermore, metasystemic cognition will enable humans to 
understand themselves psychologically. In turn, this will enable them to 
develop a comprehensive capacity to intentionally enhance their 
cognition and social/emotional capacities. These all involve complex 
phenomena that can only be understood and manipulated through 
metasystemic cognition. For the first time in human evolution, the 
emergence of metasystemic cognition will make possible a 
comprehensive capacity for the recursive self-improvement of cognition. 
It will enable us to remake ourselves consciously and intentionally in 
order to enhance our capacities to meet whatever demands we face in the 
future. 
It will enable us to do the same in relation to our social and 
political systems. 
Broadly, as we will see in more detail throughout the book, 
individuals who develop metasystemic cognition are superintelligent 
compared to those who are limited to First Enlightenment, 
analytical/rational thinking. 
As I indicated earlier, I have spent time providing these diverse 
examples of vertical development in cognition in order to give you a feel 
for some of the central challenges you will face as you attempt to 
escalate your intelligence. My presentation of the examples was 
intended to go beyond limited analytical and reductionist representations 
of the relevant issues. With some luck, they may have evoked intuitions, 
feelings, and glimpses of relevant past experiences that helped to 
provide a deeper and broader understanding. 
But it should go without saying that the examples and discussion 
I have provided so far do not demonstrate unequivocally the truth of my 
conclusions. They are not proofs that would be acceptable to First 
Enlightenment thinking. Rather, they have been chosen and structured to 
begin the process of facilitating your transition towards Second 
Enlightenment thinking and metasystemic cognition. 
In summary, there is no simple, clear-cut way to enable you to 
understand clearly what is entailed in levels of intelligence that are 
higher than your own, to identify individuals who are at those levels 
already, to recognise individuals who are reliable guides for your 

 
Recognising and Achieving Higher Cognition 
 
 
31 
 
transformation, and to specify unambiguously in words how you can 
achieve these levels. In short, attempts to show individuals how they can 
intentionally transition to a new level encounter a classic Catch-22—it is 
only when you are already at the higher level that you can understand 
what the new level entails and what you must do to achieve it. Being at 
the new level is a precondition for understanding fully what you must do 
to get there swiftly and directly. 
Nevertheless, if you want to check me out before you read 
further, you can take a look at my book Evolution's Arrow, my papers 
published in international peer-reviewed science journals, and my other 
writings. 
In the extremely unlikely event that you are already at the 
metasystemic level, you will see that my work could have been 
produced only by someone at that level. But if your cognitive center of 
gravity is at the level of an accomplished mainstream scientist, a 
respected IT specialist, a successful analytic philosopher, or some other 
exemplar of First Enlightenment thinking, it will not help you much. 
You will likely conclude that my work goes way beyond the evidence 
(that you can see) and is not analytically rigorous enough. You will 
conclude that it fails the tests of First Enlightenment science. 
However, if you want to seriously consider the potential of 
humans to escalate their cognitive capacity indefinitely through 
recursive self-improvement, you will need to keep reading the book and 
begin to apply the practices and methods it identifies. 
For all these reasons, the book is not written as a rigorous 
scientific treatise. If it were, it would not achieve its central goal of 
helping to escalate and spread higher cognition across humanity. It 
would fail to contribute significantly to the successful and rapid 
unfolding of the Second Enlightenment. 
Instead, the book is structured and written in a way that attempts 
to evoke other ways of knowing that loosen attachment to thought-based 
cognition and enable its limitations to be overcome. 
Story and narrative are forms of human communication that have 
proven capable of evoking other forms of knowing. They are the 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
32 
 
traditional, time-proven method of conveying understandings that cannot 
be adequately transmitted by rigorous, analytical exposition. 
Accordingly, this book's central ideas are initially embedded in a 
cognitive autobiography, which constitutes Part 2. 
It tells the story of how I stumbled upon methods that enhanced 
my own cognitive and social/emotional capacities using recursive self-
improvement. It sets out to show how a rather odd individual who was 
emotionally stunted, autistically orientated, and otherwise limited in a 
number of ways (including to the extent of being physically, 
emotionally, and mentally handicapped in some respects), but who was 
perhaps gifted in some other ways, was able, due to accidents of genetics 
and birth, and also due to family circumstances that were often 
dysfunctional in their own particular way, and due to numerous cultural, 
social and environmental accidents, was able to discover ways to self-
scaffold his capacities to higher levels, to know in detail how he did so, 
and therefore be able to help others to do the same. 
As only story-telling can do, this form of writing is intended to 
evoke empathies, sympathies, intuitions, insights, past experiences, and 
emotions that lead readers to a deeper understanding of how they can 
use recursive self-improvement to enhance their own capacities. 
Furthermore, a developmental narrative is particularly well 
suited to introducing in a staged fashion the sequence of steps that 
individuals need to take as they recursively improve their own cognitive 
capacities. Although the details will differ, the nature of the key steps 
undertaken by individuals will likely be similar. A sequential narrative is 
also suited to presenting the relevant concepts and experiences in a 
graduated fashion that makes them easier to understand, proceeding 
from the simple to the increasingly complex. 
In Part 3 of the Book, I will distill the discoveries made during 
this odyssey into a detailed description of practices and associated 
knowledge that can be used systematically to develop higher cognition 
recursively. 
If the cognitive narrative achieves its goals, it will enable the 
reader to understand sufficiently the words used in the declarative 
description presented in Part 3. This, in turn, will enable the reader to 

 
Recognising and Achieving Higher Cognition 
 
 
33 
 
begin in earnest the recursive self-improvement of their own cognition 
and social/emotional capacities. It will equip the reader to begin 
implementing the relevant practices and begin to climb the mountain, 
slowly but inexorably. 
In Part 2, I will begin my account of my developmental odyssey 
by recounting how I first stumbled upon recursive self-improvement as a 
method for scaffolding my cognition in 1968, when I was a 15-year-old 
boy at school in Brisbane, Australia. 
 
 
 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
34 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 2: A Developmental Odyssey 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
37 
 
4. 
 
 
 
Stumbling onto the Path of Recursive Self-
Improvement 
 
Getting 12 out of 20 on my first physics test in Year 11 at school was the 
trigger that launched me onto the path of recursive self-improvement. 
Up until then, I had found maths and science easy. Generally, I got 100 
percent or close to it in maths and science exams throughout my 
schooling. Usually, I did not get full marks only when I made a silly 
mistake. 
I had not done as well in other subjects such as English, History 
and Geography. This was particularly the case when examinations in 
these subjects started to focus on essays rather than the mere 
regurgitation of facts. Looking back, I was exceptional in any subject 
with clear and identifiable rules for generating the right answer, 
including where straight memorization was required. In contrast, in 
subjects like English, there was often no formula that I could discover 
and apply that would produce what was valued by the teachers. Unlike 
in maths and science, 'correctness' in these subjects seemed to me to be 
subjective to some extent. It was not always black and white. 
It was only years later that I saw that these characteristics of 
mine were symptoms of an underlying condition. 
But this reliable pattern was seriously disrupted by the first 
physics test in Year 11 in 1968. It was immediately obvious to me that 
the cause was associated with the introduction of a new kind of physics 
course into the Queensland education system that year. This new 
approach to physics teaching, known as PSSC physics, focused on 
imparting an understanding of the underlying principles and theories of 
physics. The course then tested the extent of a student's understanding 
by getting them to apply their knowledge to solving relevant physics 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
38 
 
problems. The proponents of PSSC physics proudly proclaimed that the 
rote learning of facts about physics would no longer be sufficient to do 
well in physics in years 11 and 12.  
This shift in emphasis from memorization to understanding was 
reflected in the fact that in a number of education systems around the 
world, the PSSC exams were 'open book'. You could take the PSSC text 
book into the exam with you. This gave all students easy access to the 
relevant physics facts, but it would not necessarily get them far in the 
exam because of its focus on understanding. However, as it turned out, 
'open book' exams were not implemented in our course, though they 
were for chemistry, which had a similar philosophy. 
12 out of 20 was almost failing! What was I to do about it? 
This serious challenge to my self-esteem brought to the forefront 
of my mind something I had read in a book a few years earlier. 'Psycho-
Cybernetics' was the title of this book that my father had brought home 
from a library. The blurb on the cover suggested that it was some kind of 
bestseller. Key themes of the book were that an understanding of 
cybernetics and related scientific principles could be used to achieve 
success and happiness in one's life. I was particularly intrigued by the 
idea that as we grow and develop, we can intentionally change the 
characteristics we find in ourselves. 
This approach resonated with similar themes in several books 
about the ideas of George Gurdjieff that my father had also brought me 
from a library. Gurdjieff was known as a spiritual master of sorts in the 
early part of the last century and also demonstrated a highly developed 
capacity for systems thinking. 
A central theme of Gurdjieff's philosophy was that individuals 
can consciously work on themselves throughout their lives to develop 
self-mastery. We do not have to take ourselves as fixed and given, but 
can instead see ourselves as a work-in-progress. As we discover the 
existence of capacities and skills that would make us more effective, we 
can take steps to install them, continually remaking ourselves 
intentionally as we grow and develop. 
However, as far as I could see from the books that I had access 
to, Gurdjieff did not provide much detail on how to work on yourself to 

 
Stumbling onto the Path of Recursive Self-Improvement 
 
 
39 
 
enhance your capacities. But his key idea took root in my mind and 
predisposed me to be on the lookout for methods that I could use to 
enhance my capabilities. 
What particularly caught my attention in Psycho-Cybernetics 
was its discussion about how some teachers in Russia were using ideas 
about algorithms to turbocharge their teaching methods. Instead of 
teaching facts about science and maths, or providing worked examples 
of how standard problems could be solved, they were teaching directly 
the algorithms that could be used to generate solutions to the problems. 
As I interpreted it, they were identifying abstract methods and strategies 
that could be used to solve whole classes of science problems and 
teaching these to their students. 
My immediate reaction was: "Why aren't our teachers doing this 
already?" It would be so much more effective. And the long hours that I 
spent bored in class every day would be more stimulating. It would not 
be as good for me as pursuing my obsession with fishing, hunting, 
prospecting, and other outdoor adventures. But it would be preferable to 
sitting at the back of every class I attended, whispering to my mates 
about what we had heard on the radio the previous night and trying to 
avoid the teacher's gaze. 
This failure of our teachers to implement a teaching practice that 
seemed to me obviously superior confirmed the poor opinion I held of 
them all, without exception. The school I attended (the all-boys Church 
of England Grammar School in Brisbane) was then reputed to be the top 
school in the state of Queensland in both academic and sporting 
achievements. A number of the senior teachers had written the textbooks 
that were used widely throughout the state. But all of them had physical 
and personality oddities of various kinds. The boys mercilessly exploited 
these. And they spent their lives teaching stuff that was generally 
obvious and boring. 
My shocking result in the physics test brought me to an 
important realization. Waiting for my teachers to teach me the relevant 
problem-solving algorithms would be futile. They had no idea. 
Furthermore, there were no books available where I could read more 
about these approaches (this was 1968, computer science was in its 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
40 
 
infancy, cybernetics was little known publicly, there was no internet, and 
I was a somewhat odd 15-year-old boy living in Australia). I had to do it 
myself. I had to discover and develop the relevant algorithms on my 
own. 
How was I to do this? 
I decided to interview the top kids in the physics class in order to 
identify the problem-solving algorithms they used, and then install them 
in myself. A simple and powerful plan! What could go wrong? 
I started to question the top students about the strategies they 
used to solve the problems that we had been set in our first physics test. 
However, I was surprised to find that they had very little conscious 
awareness of the methods they used. They could show me the formulas, 
calculations, and other workings they used to figure out the answer to a 
particular problem. However, they could not describe the abstract mental 
strategies that they had used to come up with the specific and concrete 
steps they took to solve a problem. 
They could not identify any general problem-solving strategies 
they used, although they could set out the concrete steps they took, just 
like the teachers did in the worked-examples they used in their lessons. 
When questioned about why they took the particular approach they did 
in specific instances, they were unable to provide much insight.  
It was not that they wanted to keep secret their problem-solving 
techniques. They were actually unaware of the strategies they used. 
However, the interviews and interrogations were not completely 
useless. I picked up a few hints here and there. 
My second strategy was to attempt to become aware of my own 
thought processes when I was confronted with a difficult physics 
problem. I intended to identify cases in which my thinking strategies 
worked and then reflect on why the strategies worked in those particular 
instances. My next step was to attempt to generalise the successful 
thought strategies as much as possible, in order to develop approaches 
that could be applied successfully to a wider range of problems. 
When a strategy did not work in a particular instance, I would try 
to understand why it failed and then attempt to develop an improved 
strategy that did work. Whenever an amended strategy worked, I tried to 

 
Stumbling onto the Path of Recursive Self-Improvement 
 
 
41 
 
identify why it did and how to improve it. Whenever I developed a more 
effective strategy, I would then try to generalise it further, and so on. 
Eventually, I became increasingly able to reflect on the 
effectiveness of the meta-strategies that I was using to develop better 
problem-solving algorithms. As this occurred, I also began to work on 
systematically evaluating and improving the meta-algorithms. And so 
on, and so on, at all levels, recursively self-improving my problem-
solving capabilities. 
At first, I spent a lot of time looking inward in my attempts to 
identify the problem-solving strategies and thought processes that I was 
using. However, I did not see much initially. I could see why my 
interviews with the top students did not get me very far. But gradually, 
my problem-solving thought processes emerged out of the mist.  
Increasingly, I became consciously aware of them, and could 
consciously amend them and try out different approaches mentally, in 
my head. The more I succeeded in making some of these thought 
processes conscious, and the more I started playing with ways to amend 
and improve them, the better I became at being aware of my problem-
solving algorithms. 
It is difficult to put into words how I experienced this 
developmental process. But at the time, I remember a metaphor rattling 
around in my head that somewhat captured the actual experience of what 
I was doing. It was as if I was reducing the size of the gap that 
unconscious intuition would have to spark across in order to solve a 
problem. My conscious development of problem-solving strategies was 
reducing the need for unconscious insights that were beyond my control. 
Ultimately, my goal was to maximize the effectiveness of my 
conscious problem-solving algorithms and minimize or even eliminate 
the role of intuition and unconscious insight. 
This approach produced positive results fairly quickly. Soon, I 
started to get marks that put me near the top of the physics class. And I 
achieved this with less work. Before long, I stopped doing homework 
insofar as it required me to write down the solutions to problems and 
show how I worked them out. Instead, I would restrict myself to looking 
at each problem set for homework, working out in my head an 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
42 
 
appropriate problem-solving strategy for it, checking mentally that it 
would work, and moving on if it did. 
In the increasingly rare instances in which my accumulated 
problem-solving strategies failed, I would try to develop a new strategy, 
test it, and then amend my accumulated algorithms as necessary so that 
they could now solve the new kind of problem. 
Homework was a breeze, and I did not need to pay much 
attention during lessons. I was a happy little chappy, sitting up the back 
of the physics class, talking covertly to my mates about things that really 
mattered to us in our lives then, not physics. 
Soon, I extended the meta-thinking approach that I had 
developed for physics to all other subjects at school. Maths and 
chemistry did not put up much resistance. I also started doing better at 
English, but there were things required in English exams that were still 
largely impervious to my strategies. For English, I could not sufficiently 
reduce the size of the gap that the spark needed to cross. Intuition and 
insights were still needed to bridge the gap. 
In particular, I was unable to devise algorithms that could fully 
produce the creative essays required for English exams. It was not until 
nearly forty years later that I realized that this could be done more or 
less comprehensively and that James Joyce and some other literary 
giants had, in fact, accomplished this to varying degrees. I discovered 
that James Joyce, in particular, seemed to have been propelled in this 
direction by the same underlying condition that probably played a major 
role in this aspect of my own cognitive development. 
This left zoology. Unlike physics and chemistry, the teaching of 
zoology in Queensland had not yet been radically updated. The year 11 
and 12 zoology courses did not even attempt to teach the problem-
solving approaches and theoretical understandings that are at the center 
of most scientific advances in the real world. Instead, zoology still 
focused on the memorization of facts about zoology. 
However, I had an exceptional memory. I also had plenty of 
spare time because I did not need to do much work on the other subjects 
and because my parents refused to buy a TV set because it would 
distract their children from homework and other things that were more 

 
Stumbling onto the Path of Recursive Self-Improvement 
 
 
43 
 
important to my parents. So I swallowed the zoology textbook, and even 
now, I would still be able to pass a thorough exam about its contents 
easily. In addition, this memorisation process was greatly aided by my 
development of mental strategies that made memorization easier. Central 
to this was developing schema and connections that linked up the 
disparate facts, thereby significantly reducing the information content 
that needed to be memorized, and making it easier to retrieve relevant 
facts from memory. 
But there was a price to pay for refraining from actually working 
out the answers to math, physics and chemistry problems. It hit home 
three years later when I was taking a university end-of-year physics 
exam. In examinations, I had to produce actual written workings for the 
problems I solved. I could not just check that I had the mental strategies 
that would solve the problem and then move on to the next one. 
I froze in this exam when I found that I was having difficulty 
remembering some of the basic multiplication tables that I needed to use 
to work out the actual answers to the problems. This memory deficiency 
also extended to complex calculations such as long division. I was out of 
practice. I had hardly done any calculations for years. 
I wondered why the examiners were asking physics questions 
that required complex computations when their job was to test whether 
students understood the relevant physics, not whether they could do 
basic maths. Surely? 
But I got stuck on the details of a number of problems. I could 
not complete the calculations. My solution was to write down the 
procedures that I would use to solve each problem, step by step. But I 
did not (could not) actually apply those steps in practice. I explained 
why I did this in a note to the examiners in my exam paper. I wrote that I 
had demonstrated mastery of the relevant physics, if not of basic 
computation, and that surely that qualified me for full marks.  
Apparently, they agreed and gave me a High Distinction for the 
exam. But after that, I practised my multiplication tables and other 
computational basics before each exam. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
44 
 
By the second half of year 11 and throughout year 12, I was 
ranked first in the school academically out of around 200 students. In the 
previous years, I was ranked around 15th. 
In the final physics exam covering years 11 and 12, I got 92 
percent, while the second student got 81 percent. Interestingly, both 
physics teachers also did the exam. Apparently, they wanted to provide 
some kind of independent test of the difficulty of the new PSSC course 
and of the exam they had set. The head physics teacher got 68 percent, 
and the other got 39 percent. 
I mentioned earlier that initially, I was extremely disappointed 
with my teachers for failing to teach us problem-solving algorithms 
directly rather than taking us through worked examples and getting us to 
read the textbook. But their exam results underlined that their failure to 
do so was not due to laziness or ignorance. It was not their fault. They 
simply lacked the capability to do so. 
It was not just that they lacked the ability to be conscious of their 
own problem-solving mental processes so that they could impart them 
directly to their students. As demonstrated by their results in the physics 
test, they also lacked effective problem-solving techniques. They were at 
least two vertical cognitive levels below where they needed to be if they 
were to teach algorithms directly and effectively. 
Even if they had possessed highly developed problem-solving 
abilities, that would not have been enough. In order to teach students the 
algorithms that underlay their own abilities, they would need to be 
conscious of them. They would need to be able to 'see' their own 
problem-solving strategies as objects in their awareness. 
Without this, they would have little capacity to describe to their 
students how they went about solving particular problems. Until they 
reached this level, their problem-solving methods and algorithms would 
not exist for them consciously and could not be used consciously to 
teach. Nor were the teachers capable of developing with their students a 
commonly-understood set of words and concepts that could be used to 
describe to students their problem-solving strategies.  
The teachers were no more able to look inside their own minds 
and 'see' their own problem-solving algorithms than dogs are able to 

 
Stumbling onto the Path of Recursive Self-Improvement 
 
 
45 
 
'see' things outside their visual field, or Maggie Thatcher was able to 
'see' a society and other large-scale systems, or First Enlightenment 
scientists were able to 'see' complex phenomena that cannot be captured 
by reductionist, mechanistic thinking. However, none of these 
individuals are responsible for their particular blindness. 
At the time, I was not very charitable to my teachers. But they 
were acting in the only way they could, given their level of 
development. I now see that berating them for their failings would have 
been as senseless as abusing a dog for failing to be able to walk around 
upright on its hind legs. 
Furthermore, if my teachers had been able to teach algorithms 
directly, I would have been deprived of a powerful motivation to look 
inside my own mind, develop the ability to see my own thought 
processes, and see how I could improve them recursively. I might never 
have been propelled along the path of recursive self-improvement. 
Schooling in Queensland ended at the completion of year 12 with 
public examinations covering what had been studied in years 11 and 12. 
These public examinations were the gateway to university. Over 10,000 
students sat for the exams in 1979, and I was ranked fourth overall. This 
was even though the ranking system compulsorily included the student's 
marks in English. As I indicated earlier, my meta-thinking techniques 
had not worked as well for English. On the scale of 1 to 7 that was used 
to indicate how well a student performed in individual subjects, I got a 6 
in English and a 7 in each of the other subjects. 
The events that surrounded my poor performance in a physics 
test at the beginning of year 11 launched me on a path of conscious, 
recursive self-improvement that has continued throughout my life. 
Central to this path is the attitude that the individual is a work-in-
progress that can be continually remade consciously and intentionally. 
Each enhancement of intelligence can be used to enhance further one's 
capacities, including by enhancing one's capacity to improve one's 
abilities, and so on. 
My final years at school were just the beginning. 
Try out this approach on some challenges that are of vital interest 
to you. Do it recursively. Extend it to other classes of challenges. And 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
46 
 
each time you encounter a problem that cannot be dealt with effectively, 
celebrate because it is an opportunity to discover how to adapt your 
strategies so that they can now solve wider classes of challenges. 
You may not find it easy to make conscious what it is that you 
currently do intuitively and unconsciously, and then to enhance these 
processes consciously. However, as the book proceeds, I will set out 
specific techniques and practices that will enable you to scaffold these 
capacities.

 
47 
 
5. 
 
 
 
Attending the University of Queensland 
 
Gradually, I began to apply my ability to recursively improve my 
problem-solving skills to domains beyond schoolwork. When I did so, it 
generally proved to be just as effective for developing better strategies as 
it had been for schoolwork. 
However, I was not systematic or single-minded in applying my 
meta-skills to new areas. Often, it was more a case of doing it only after 
being frustrated several times in my attempts to achieve a particular 
goal. And often, when I did apply my meta-capacity, I used it partly 
consciously and partly intuitively. But most of the time, this was enough 
to get what I wanted. This minimalist approach saved time and energy. 
The full, conscious application of my methods took a lot of effort. 
However, in retrospect, it is obvious that the goals I pursued at 
the time were often naïve and restricted by a lack of understanding of the 
wider world and broader human possibilities. I became better at 
developing strategies for achieving these goals, but the goals were often 
narrow in scope and extremely self-centered. I was 17 during my first 
year at the University of Queensland. 
The central goal that drove me at the time was to go fishing. 
I was obsessed with developing better techniques for catching 
fish. For years, I had been a voracious reader of Australian and 
American fishing and outdoors magazines. I harvested the fishing 
techniques they described, generalised them, and adapted them to 
generate new and improved methods for catching the fish that I had 
access to. 
Another significant part of my obsession with fishing was that it 
took me outdoors to extraordinarily beautiful environments. For me, 
heaven was wading over a sand flat covered by crystal clear green water 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
48 
 
under a cloudless blue sky with the warm sun on my back, flicking out a 
bait for flathead and working it as if it were a soft-plastic, artificial lure 
across places that flathead were likely to lie in wait to ambush their prey. 
When I left school, it was taken for granted that I would attend 
university. I was told repeatedly that as the top student at Queensland's 
leading private school, the world was at my feet. I could do anything. 
For parents, teachers, and other authority figures, this meant that I 
should do Law or Medicine. 
But I had other ideas. I chose to enroll in a science degree, 
majoring in zoology. This was the closest thing that existed at the time 
to a degree in Marine Biology. The extremely limited thinking that 
underlay my choice was that I wanted to work outdoors and be able to 
spend as much time as possible fishing. It was a great plan, given my 
obsessions, tunnel vision, and limited understanding of myself and the 
world. 
The long university vacations gave me plenty of opportunities to 
fish my way around Queensland. In my first year, I spent January on the 
surf beaches and rocky headlands of Stradbroke Island near Brisbane in 
South-East Queensland, May on the beaches, rocks, and jetties of 
Magnetic Island in northern Queensland, August on the beaches and 
creeks even further north on Hinchinbrook Island, and the next January 
fishing and skin diving on an uninhabited coral cay at the southern end 
of the Great Barrier Reef. At that time, university exams were held only 
at the end of the year, so I could get away with little work during the 
year, just cramming at the end. 
My mates and I travelled cheaply, invariably camping for free 
wherever we went, including in city parks. But I needed some money. I 
earned this by writing fishing articles for national fishing magazines. 
When I was 17 and 18, during my first two years at university, I had half 
a dozen magazine articles published. I wrote one about each new exotic 
fishing location I went to. 
I have mentioned that English was my poorest subject 
academically. I was far from being a natural writer. But in order to write 
good fishing articles, I studied the writing formats and approaches used 
by the best authors who wrote for Australian and American outdoors and 

 
Attending the University of Queensland 
 
 
49 
 
fishing magazines. I abstracted the techniques and patterns they used and 
generalised them so that I could adapt them for my purposes. I did not 
write instinctively and spontaneously, drawing on unconscious, intuitive 
knowledge. Instead, my writing was explicitly guided by my conscious 
theories about writing and how it could be structured to achieve 
particular effects. 
I can still remember very clearly the pattern and rhythm I used 
for the articles I wrote during this two-year period in 1970 and 71. 
But things did not go so well for me in the Zoology Department 
at the University of Queensland. First-year zoology was largely a repeat 
of years 11 and 12 at school. Since I had already memorized the relevant 
textbook, I did not have to do any work to get a High Distinction in the 
exams. 
However, as my intellectual horizons expanded, I increasingly 
realized during my first and second years that what was being taught in 
the Zoology Department was not science. Largely, it was just a 
collection of facts. We were not being taught the methods and 
techniques that science used to generate powerful new ideas and theories 
that could explain details about the world and make surprising new 
predictions. 
Science taught by the Zoology Department was little better than 
basic school science. It required students to memorize and regurgitate 
the residue of facts and data that is left behind by genuine science as it 
moves forward creatively into the future.  
My eventual clashes with the people running the Zoology 
Department were manifestations of a pattern that had existed in me for 
as long as I could remember. As I grew older, this pattern increasingly 
determined my behaviour. I had a problem with authority. Whenever I 
was under the control of people with greater power than me, I tended to 
feel suffocated and abused. 
This visceral reaction grew as I became increasingly aware that 
people in authority often got it wrong. Given my strong drive to control 
myself and my environment, I felt very insecure when I was subject to 
the direction of relatively incompetent people who disrupted the plans 
and strategies that I used to maintain this control. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
50 
 
My mother was the dictator of my family. She controlled 
everything, including my father. I can remember that from a young age, 
I resented it when she used her power to prevent me from doing what I 
wanted. With my personality, I felt justified in doing whatever I could to 
escape her control on any issue. Given my characteristics and 
predispositions, one way I could do this was to develop my capacity to 
argue rationally and logically. I would use this to justify what I wanted 
to do, and to demonstrate that my mother's position was wrong. 
This probably also incentivized me to develop arguments and 
theoretical positions that were more abstract and more encompassing. 
For example, I found myself using tactics to win arguments that 
involved re-framing the discussion within a bigger, wider perspective 
and by going 'meta'. My family environment drove me to become a 
master arguer at a very young age. 
My distrust of authority and of most adults was reinforced when 
I started school as a five-year-old. My mother had decided that her two 
boys would never go to a public school. Since the Church of England 
Grammar School did not accept students until Grade 4, she first sent us 
to the local Catholic school. I quickly found that I was allergic to ritual, 
prayer, having to show reverence to any person or thing, and ideas about 
supernatural beings. I soon saw that the Mother Superior, nuns, and 
priests often acted in ways contrary to what they espoused and quoted 
from the Catechism and Bible. The Mother Superior, in particular, could 
be a very nasty piece of work. 
My visceral antipathy toward religion was fuelled significantly 
when I eventually got to the Church of England Grammar School. I soon 
discovered that what they had to say about God, the Bible, and 
Christianity was substantially different from what the Catholics told me. 
They could not both be right. Increasingly, I found that both were 
wrong. It was manifestly the case that even those in authority who 
claimed to have God on their side could not be trusted. 
However, for many years as I was growing up, I did not do much 
to confront those in power or try to overthrow them actively. There was 
no future in that. Instead, I coped using avoidance and manipulation. 

 
Attending the University of Queensland 
 
 
51 
 
This began to change in my final year at school. It was 1969, and 
student rebellion was in the air across the Westernised globe. It even 
penetrated Brisbane. Some of my friends at school started to get 
interested in these ideas and movements before I did. But when they 
began to agitate for setting up a school student council, they decided that 
it would be useful to have me as a member of the leadership group, 
given that I was the top student in the school. 
I was a member of the first school council, and we set out to 
discuss changes to school policies with the Headmaster. Burning issues 
for us were abolishing the requirement to wear hats as part of our school 
uniform and the prohibition against long hair. 
The Headmaster was highly regarded throughout Australia as a 
school principal. He was the head of the relevant national association of 
principals. Teachers and parents told us that he was a great man. But I 
soon found that he was evasive and inauthentic in his interactions with 
us. He was not interested in going where logic and rationality should 
have taken him on each issue. 
Furthermore, to sustain the positions he adopted on issues, he 
was not above using his power and authority to stare down and bully 
students who continued to challenge him and point out the flaws in his 
arguments. 
I was particularly unimpressed when he made me bend over his 
desk and then hit me vigorously six times with his blackboard ruler as 
punishment for not attending the compulsory chapel service that 
preceded classes each day. And he seemed to really enjoy doing it. 
Even the Zoology Department at the University of Queensland 
began to be affected by student activism, although to a limited degree. 
Consistent with the strategies being pursued by activists across the 
university, I stood up in lectures and called for relevant classes to be 
cancelled to enable students to march in demonstrations against the 
Vietnam War. 
Criticisms about how zoology and evolutionary science were 
taught in the university also grew. Eventually, the hierarchy could no 
longer ignore this. The head of the Zoology Department agreed to 
participate in a group of students and academic staff who would discuss 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
52 
 
proposals to change how things were being done. I was invited to attend 
as a prominent second-year student. The experience was 
underwhelming. It underlined and reinforced my views about the 
incompetence and dishonesty that seemed to characterise authority 
structures. 
The first meeting lasted three hours. Only one issue was 
discussed but not resolved: whether the group should be referred to as 
'The Zoology Group' or 'A Zoology Group'. Apparently, the hierarchy 
was concerned that calling it 'The' Zoology Group would have wrongly 
conveyed the impression that it had some official status and power 
within the university. 
The meetings fizzled out, achieving nothing of significance. 
In large part, my disaffection with the way the Zoology 
Department went about its teaching was because I knew they could have 
explored perspectives that were far more interesting and stimulating. 
This was particularly the case in the areas that interested me the most: 
evolutionary science and ecology. 
I had been exposed to 'big picture' and systems perspectives 
about evolution and ecology in books that my father brought home from 
libraries when I was in my early teens. My father worked in a bank from 
the age of 18 until he retired at 63. But his mind did not spend much 
time on his bank work. 
In his head, he was a philosopher, vitally interested in trying to 
understand the meaning and purpose of human existence, including his 
own. He was a member of the Brisbane branch of the Theosophical 
Society and plundered its library in his quest for new ideas and 
perspectives. The Theosophists tended to be more serious and 
intellectual than the New Agers, but they went way beyond the science 
of the time in their quest to understand the human condition. 
My father enjoyed having a son who seemed smart enough and 
interested enough to pursue these kinds of ideas throughout his life. He 
brought home a wide range of books. Psycho-Cybernetics and Gurdjieff 
books were not the only ones that eventually deeply impacted me. 
I did not fully realize until many years later what an 
extraordinary range of cutting-edge books he had gotten for me to read. 

 
Attending the University of Queensland 
 
 
53 
 
Unfortunately, it was too late then to thank him and express how much 
the books had contributed to making me who I became, for better and 
worse. 
Key books he brought me included Karl Popper's treatise on the 
philosophy of science, 'The Logic of Scientific Discovery', Teilhard de 
Chardin's evolutionary epic 'The Phenomenon of Man', Madame 
Blavatsky's 'The Secret Doctrine', Heidegger's 'Being and Time', 
Alfred North Whitehead's 'Science and Society', and many others. 
In general, I enjoyed reading these books, but they did not have a 
strong and immediate impact on me. I could generally follow their ideas, 
found them interesting, and thought that much of what they had to say 
made sense and was even obvious. The exceptions were when they went 
off into what I saw as religious and supernatural wishful thinking. 
Teilhard de Chardin, for example, tended to do this near the end of his 
books. 
However, I was not put off by speculative thinking seemed to be 
more grounded in material reality. I learned from Karl Popper that 
speculation and imagination served important functions in the process of 
scientific discovery. They were essential for generating bold, innovative 
hypotheses that could then be subjected to rigorous testing. As Popper 
established, the process of 'conjecture and refutation' is central to the 
advancement of science. As he emphasised, coming up with bold, 
innovative, and potentially falsifiable conjectures is at least as important 
for the success of science as is the collection of relevant evidence and 
data. 
I was fully expecting that when I went to university, I would start 
learning real science. Physics and chemistry in the final two years of 
school had begun to move in this direction. Zoology had not, but I 
looked forward to this changing at university. Disappointingly, the first 
zoology lectures were still all about facts and memorization. But being 
somewhat naive and optimistic at the time, I expected that very soon, 
there would be a lecture that began to teach us about Teilhard de 
Chardin's grand vision of evolution. I hoped that before long, we would 
discuss the deep implications of large-scale evolutionary processes for 
humanity and our societies. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
54 
 
But it never happened. There was no mention of de Chardin's 
ideas in any lecture I attended during my science degree. And I did 
every available course that had anything to do with evolution. 
Almost without exception, the academic staff in the Zoology 
Department seemed to be focused only on data collection—measuring, 
counting, and classifying. Some of them openly disparaged the role of 
theory in evolutionary science. The deputy head of the Department told 
me that all theory was ephemeral and that only facts represented 
unchanging truth. 
I responded that without good theorizing and hypothesising, 
researchers would not know what data to collect in order to advance 
scientific knowledge. An infinite amount of data could be collected in 
the world, but only a tiny part of it is relevant to testing new ideas and 
thereby contributing to the progress of science. Yes, if a researcher 
counts all the grains of sand on a beach, the outcome would provide a 
fact about the circumstances at the time, but it would not be relevant to 
anything that matters. And so on and so on, I argued, drawing on a 
Popperian conception of science. 
But I doubt seriously whether he had read and thought deeply 
about key issues in the philosophy of science, let alone understood them. 
I did not encounter any members of the lecturing staff who had read 
Popper and who could sensibly discuss his ideas and their relevance to 
their work. An intellectual wasteland. 
I used to say that you could fire a rifle through the middle of the 
Zoology Department and miss the nearest new idea by three kilometers. 
I also suggested that the Department failed to meet the basic 
requirements for being part of a university science faculty. It was not 
doing or teaching real science. Instead, it was doing only technical work 
and training data collectors and technicians. Consequently, I argued, it 
should be excised from the University of Queensland and instead 
incorporated into the Queensland Institute of Technology. 
It amused me at the time to say these kinds of things to authority, 
but the joke was on me a decade or two later when the Queensland 
Institute of Technology itself was given full university status.

 
55 
 
6. 
 
 
 
Going Fishing and Finding Philosophy 
 
In the final analysis, my struggle between the conflicting motivations of 
continuing at university or going fishing could end in only one way. 
There was no real contest. I remember the day towards the end of my 
second year at Queensland University when I decided to resolve this 
conflict. Sitting in the Zoology Department library, I came to the 
realization that instead of pursuing a career path in Marine Biology that 
would give me some opportunities to go fishing, I should leave 
university immediately and go fishing full time. 
This decision was made even easier because I had discovered 
during my trips to Northern Queensland that it was possible to earn a 
living fishing for Spanish Mackerel and reef fish on the Great Barrier 
Reef. Importantly for me, this involved catching the fish one at a time on 
fishing lines, not using nets. This form of fishing had all the key 
elements that drove my fishing obsession. The level of income of a 
professional mackerel fisherman depends on the choice of baits, lures, 
lines, locations, and so on. The better the techniques that the fisherman 
develops and adopts, the better he will do. 
That day, I decided to take at least four years off university to 
become a professional mackerel fisherman on the Great Barrier Reef. 
The plan was to get a job in northern Queensland in order to earn 
enough money to buy a mackerel fishing boat that I could live on. Given 
that I was fully equipped with masterful problem-solving algorithms, 
how could this plan fail to succeed? These included algorithms for 
developing new and improved algorithms as needed. With these tools, I 
was exceptionally good at working out how to get what I wanted. 
Early in the morning, a few weeks later, with 28 dollars in my 
pocket, I got my mother to drop me off on Highway One on the northern 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
56 
 
outskirts of Brisbane. I began hitch-hiking to Cairns in Far North 
Queensland. I told my mother that it was just another vacation fishing 
trip I was embarking on and that I would return in a few months to 
continue at university. I wrote to my parents from Cairns a couple of 
weeks later to tell them that I would not be back anytime soon and 
would not be starting third-year zoology.  
I had left behind family, friends, and most of my history. It felt 
exhilarating to cut all ties. Free at last! I loved the smell of burning 
bridges in the morning. 
Seven or so months later, I was living the dream. I had spent six 
months working in Weipa, an isolated bauxite mining town on the 
western coast of Cape York Peninsula. I worked in railroad construction, 
assisting with welding railway tracks together. The wages and 
conditions were exceptionally high, given the need to attract a temporary 
workforce prepared to be separated from families and friends, work in a 
town with few amenities, and live in very basic temporary 
accommodation. 
I quickly accumulated the money to return to Cairns to buy a 26-
foot licensed mackerel fishing boat that I could live on. The federal 
government duly issued me with a Commonwealth Master Fisherman's 
Licence. I was soon heading out of Cairns to the Barrier Reef for up to 
five or six days at a time, out of sight of land and catching fish on reefs 
that were tens of kilometers north and south of Cairns. Being an 
introvert and a loner, I generally went out alone. I had never owned a 
boat before, and had never taken one out to sea by myself. I had some 
near misses. At 19 and with zero relevant experience, there should have 
been a law against it. 
But I survived and loved what I was doing. After a few months, 
my plans broadened. The idea now was to spend a few seasons fishing 
out of Cairns, then upgrade to a bigger boat, and head to the Torres 
Strait and to the islands of the western Pacific outside the Barrier Reef. 
Apart from the fishing and the beauty of reefs and islands, part of the 
attraction was island girls. In my experience, many were spontaneous, 
loved life, and had a great sense of humour. And they were just like 
Margaret Mead said they were. 

 
Going Fishing and Finding Philosophy 
 
 
57 
 
But other events intervened, eventually propelling my life down 
a different path. 
The immediate cause was the Southeast Trade Winds which 
regularly battered the Barrier Reef and the northeastern coast of 
Queensland. Often, the trade winds blew consistently for a week or 
more, preventing mackerel fishermen from going to sea and catching 
fish. 
Consequently, I had to find something to do while I waited for 
the winds to drop. As a reader and a loner, I gravitated to spending my 
days in the Cairns Library. The library was a classical two-story 
colonial-style building with large cool verandas in the center of Cairns. I 
would happily spend full days in the library reading newspapers and 
books. 
Since I always liked to have a system to guide me, I decided to 
begin reading the books that were first in line on the library's shelves, 
and then work my way along from there. As luck would have it, the 
library classified its books using the Dewey system. My strategy quickly 
led me to books on philosophy and psychology. 
Soon, I was hooked. The books I read on philosophy resonated 
strongly with the ideas I had gotten from the books my father had 
brought home for me when I was a young teenager. In contrast to 
university science which had held little interest for me, the philosophy I 
read was full of stimulating ideas and 'big picture' perspectives. It 
regularly went to the 'meta' level, focusing not just on particular ideas, 
but on ideas and perspectives about those ideas. 
Of particular interest to me was that I found several 
philosophical books that dealt with questions and issues that really 
mattered to human beings, including me. Where do we come from? 
What are we? Where are we going? And most significantly, what should 
we do? How should we live our lives? How should we interact with 
others? What, if any, ethical principles should we use to guide us 
through our lives? 
Despite the enormous gulf between the philosophy I was now 
reading and the comparatively 'brain dead' evolutionary science that 
filled my university zoology course, my intellectual awakening in the 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
58 
 
Cairns Library did not turn me away from the evolutionary perspective. 
Rather, it further fuelled my deep intuition that understanding the 
evolutionary processes that have shaped humanity was the key to 
answering the existential questions we face. I intuited that academic 
evolutionary science and thinkers like Teilhard de Chardin and Desmond 
Morris had barely scratched the surface of this potential. But at that 
time, I was not able to come up with a viable alternative set of theories. 
Nevertheless, the seed had been planted that was to govern my 
intellectual development for the rest of my life. 
Furthermore, my reading about philosophy convinced me that I 
was not being overambitious in believing that I could develop a coherent 
and relevant evolutionary theory and philosophy. With my recursively 
self-improving mental tool kit, I found that I had no trouble following 
and understanding the ideas developed by the great philosophers, 
identifying deficiencies in their arguments, and working out how those 
limitations could be overcome. 
I remember being very impressed with the work of the great 
English philosopher Bertrand Russell. However, I had little doubt that I 
could do the kind of work he had done. It was not until years later that I 
saw that even though he was obviously a genius of sorts, he was a genius 
only at the level of analytical/rational thinking. Eventually, I realized 
that if I were to succeed with the development of my evolutionary 
philosophy, I would need to develop cognitive capacities that were 
vertically above those of the hero of my younger years, Bertrand 
Russell. 
While in the library, I noticed that I was not the only person 
spending hours a day there, completely absorbed in reading and 
thinking. A number of old, bearded, dishevelled, dirty, apparently 
homeless men were often in the library, focused on reading the daily 
newspapers. Some would furiously and triumphantly underline 
particular passages they found in the papers. They acted as if they had 
just discovered and confirmed special knowledge that was highly 
significant but that only they could see. Sometimes, when I noticed this, 
I would chuckle internally and wonder whether it was my destiny to 

 
Going Fishing and Finding Philosophy 
 
 
59 
 
become one of them. Fifty years have passed, and I have not ended up 
like that. Yet. But there is still time. 
The realization that I wanted to spend my life working on 
evolutionary philosophy changed everything. Doing so was completely 
incompatible with being a professional fisherman who wandered 
nomadically around the Barrier Reef and the Pacific Islands in his boat. 
I had already discovered that heavy physical work tended to 
prevent sustained and deep intellectual work. During my heavy 
labouring work in railroad construction in Weipa, I was physically 
exhausted at the end of each 10-hour work day. And although I loved it, 
fishing was even more of a barrier. Living and working in a small boat 
fifty or more miles off the coast, navigating through dense reefs and 
continually contending with challenging sea conditions, was a very 
immersive experience. A professional fisherman in a little boat was 
continually absorbed in their senses and being physically tested to their 
limits. As the Torres Strait Islanders used to say, it involved spending 
your days 'chewing the salt water'. 
I decided that I needed to find work that was not physically 
challenging in a city with good libraries that was located away from 
distracting fishing opportunities. With this in mind, I sold my fishing 
boat at the end of the year and headed south, leaving my beloved tropics 
and the Great Barrier Reef far behind. 
Eventually, I ended up in Canberra, Australia's national capital. 
It is a planned city established in 1913 by the federal government on 
what was formerly vacant bushland. Canberra is a government town 
with great public facilities, including libraries and the Australian 
National University. 
I started employment in the federal government in 1972 as a 
'Clerk Class 1', the lowest clerical and administrative work level. 
Initially, I had plenty of time for reading and thinking. However, I got 
promoted up the scale quickly, which required more demanding work. 
And there were other distractions. Having attended an all-boys 
school, I had not learned much about interacting with females by the 
time I went to university. In Canberra, I formed my first longer-term 
relationships with girls, lived with one, and was strongly attached 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
60 
 
several times. I found that I very much enjoyed female company. It was 
not just Island girls. I discovered that it tended to give me some relief 
from continually thinking about how to control my environment and get 
what I wanted. 
I had two particularly interesting jobs during my time in 
Canberra. One was as an administrative and research officer with the 
Priorities Review Staff. It was an elite think tank set up by the 
government to advise it about the economic, social, and other policies 
that it would need to achieve its longer-term societal goals. This think 
tank was to focus on the future rather than immediate needs. 
The other job was as a policy and admin officer with the 
International Women's Year Secretariat. Its function was to advise the 
government on policies that would support 1975's International 
Women's Year. As I have already indicated, I was a beginner at 
understanding women's issues. However, I had embraced feminism to 
the extent possible given my limited background. I was particularly 
influenced by Germaine Greer's 'The Female Eunuch', and read other 
books and articles. I began to understand the evolutionary, cultural, and 
social forces that often stood in the way of women achieving their goals 
in society, individually and collectively. I was more than happy to be a 
token male within the Secretariat. 
After two years working for the government in Canberra, I 
resigned from my Class 6 position and headed north again for the tropics 
and the Great Barrier Reef. I was enjoying my life in Canberra, but I had 
one year left before my planned four-year break from university ended. I 
decided that before I returned to finish my degree, I would get another 
fishing boat and spend a final season fishing for mackerel on the Great 
Barrier Reef in Far North Queensland.

 
61 
 
7. 
 
 
 
Back to University 
 
I returned to Brisbane and Queensland University at the beginning of 
1976 as a 23-year-old. I intended to complete my degree and then pursue 
a career in academia as a theoretical evolutionary scientist. 
I soon found that the Zoology Department had not changed much 
during my absence. But there were some improvements. The third-year 
subjects now offered in evolutionary science and ecology were 
considerably more interesting and stimulating than those available in 
earlier years. 
Some lectures covered the latest developments in evolutionary 
science, including Edward O Wilson's 1975 book 'Sociobiology: The 
New Synthesis'. Controversially, Wilson applied some of the key 
findings made by evolutionary science about the evolution of sociality 
amongst animals to human evolution. 
However, even these lectures still fell far short of what I intuited 
was possible for a 'big picture' evolutionary theory that applied to all 
aspects of human evolution, including the emergence of our political and 
economic systems. At that time, I could not see even the broad outlines 
of such a unified theory of evolution. But I knew that Wilson's work, 
admirable as it was, was just a small, stumbling step in that direction. 
I did not understand it then, but I realized later that I would need 
to undergo further vertical transitions in my cognitive capacities if I 
were to develop such a new, comprehensive theoretical understanding. 
And it took much longer to realize that any such theory could be 
properly understood only by others who had undergone similar vertical 
cognitive transitions. 
I made some good friends in the final year of my degree. These 
were fellow students who lived and breathed zoology. Their enthusiasm 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
62 
 
was almost infectious. However, I realized that my interests and 
intellectual predispositions were very different from theirs. They were as 
passionate about bird watching and about collecting and identifying 
frogs as I was about fishing. But they were not at all theoretically 
orientated. They did not share my passion for developing an overarching 
understanding of evolution that could contribute significantly to 
understanding the human condition, including by answering the big 
existential questions. 
I met one of these fellow students many years later, and 
reminisced with him about our time together at university. He told me 
that what startled him about my evolutionary thinking at the time was 
that it abstracted away 'the whole of nature'. For him, my emerging 
theories and ideas were so abstract that they did not include the concrete 
details of actual living processes in nature that he and our other friends 
were so passionate about studying and exploring. 
But it was not just some of my fellow students who were 
motivated by passions that differed greatly from mine. I soon found that 
none of the academic staff in the Zoology Department shared my 
interests. I saw that if I were to pursue an academic career in 
evolutionary science at the University of Queensland, my PhD would 
have to focus on data collection. I would have to spend years counting 
and measuring animals. 
The typical PhD completed in the Zoology Department was 
about 95 percent counting and measuring and about 5 percent theory. 
Ideally, I wanted to do a PhD that was 100 percent theory. I accepted 
that counting and measuring were an essential part of the scientific 
process, but I was more than happy to leave that task to other scientists. I 
wanted to specialize in what I was exceptional at. 
As these realizations hit home, I set out to explore the possibility 
of pursuing an academic career at some other university in the world that 
valued theory more highly. I progressively familiarized myself with the 
latest journal articles in evolutionary science and related fields and 
identified the institutions and researchers that generated them. 
This gave me a great overview of the state of evolutionary 
science at the time, and I found the survey enjoyable and stimulating. 

 
Back to University  
 
63 
 
Ultimately, however, I was very disappointed. I discovered that the state 
of evolutionary science at the University of Queensland was fairly 
typical, not unique. 'Big picture' evolutionary theorizing seemed to be 
frowned upon almost universally. 
A number of scattered groups used mathematical modelling to 
address some theoretical issues. However, standard mathematical 
models cannot effectively deal with complex, organic systems. They are 
useful only for representing relatively mechanistic systems that can be 
analysed into components that interact in more-or-less fixed ways. 
Standard mathematical modelling can deal effectively only with 
phenomena that are analytically tractable. Unfortunately, most complex 
evolutionary phenomena are not. Over-reliance on mathematical 
modelling and analysis reflects a key difference between First 
Enlightenment science and Second Enlightenment or metasystemic 
science. The use of complex simulations does not, by itself, enable this 
vertical gap to be overcome. Analytical/rational thinking has as much 
difficulty understanding complex simulations as it has understanding 
other complex phenomena—metasystemic cognition is essential in both 
cases.  
My research showed that 'big picture' evolutionary science was 
'on the nose' across the planet. For an evolutionary scientist to focus on 
these issues was career limiting. The only time it was safe for 
researchers to present 'big picture' evolutionary perspectives was when 
they wrote the final book of their careers. Typically, in the last chapter 
of their last book, they would outline their views about the implications 
for the human condition of the large-scale evolutionary processes that 
have shaped humanity and that will govern our future. 
It was not until many years later that I discovered the central 
historical reason for evolutionary science's restrictions and limitations. It 
was no accident. 
Since the middle of the last century, mainstream evolutionary 
science has largely accepted a set of ideas about evolution that became 
known as the Modern Evolutionary Synthesis. In general, the Synthesis 
rejects the existence of large-scale directionality in evolution and other 
patterns identified by 'big picture' evolutionary thinking. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
64 
 
But significantly, excluding these ideas from the synthesis was 
not due to any scientific case against large-scale directionality in 
evolution. In fact, these exclusions have an entirely different 
explanation. The contents of the Modern Evolutionary Synthesis were 
largely shaped by a small group of leading evolutionary scientists during 
the mid-1940s. They set out intentionally to fashion a particular version 
of evolutionary science that could survive and thrive as an academic 
discipline. To achieve this, it had to be shaped in such a way that it could 
avoid controversies and criticisms that might otherwise have retarded its 
acceptance from the very beginning.  
As evolutionary philosopher Michael Ruse details in his book 
'Monad to Man', the founders of the Modern Evolutionary Synthesis got 
together several times during the 1940s to plan how their proposed 
Synthesis could be established. Ruse indicates that a central concern of 
these meetings was to entrench evolutionary studies as an accepted 
academic discipline within science. 
With profession-building as a key goal, the architects of the 
Synthesis decided that ideas about direction and progress should be 
excluded from the discipline of evolutionary science. In particular, the 
founders were concerned that some ideologies might attempt to 
manipulate such ideas to justify racism and social inequality. At the 
time, Hitler's misuse of evolutionary ideas had demonstrated the reality 
of this dangerous potential. Leaving this door open could embroil 
evolutionary science in controversy and undermine the academic 
acceptability of the nascent discipline.  
Ruse outlines how the founders implemented their plan. They 
decided to use their editorial positions with scientific journals and their 
powers as 'respected' peer reviewers to influence what was publishable. 
In a world of publish or perish, these were powerful weapons for 
achieving their goals. 
As Ruse points out, it is ironic that the architects made these 
decisions despite most of them supporting the view that directionality in 
some form or another is evident in evolution. See pages 438 to 450 of 
'Monad to Man' for more detail. In particular, pages 447 to 450 focus on 

 
Back to University  
 
65 
 
how directionality and wider 'speculation' were excluded from the 
Synthesis. 
Against this background, it is understandable that new 
generations of evolutionary scientists came to believe that the exclusion 
from evolutionary science of the study of directionality and other large-
scale patterns is because there is no scientific support for these ideas. 
However, as Ruse makes clear, the initial exclusion was not due 
to relevant scientific considerations. There never was and never has been 
any convincing science-based justification for their exclusion. The 
exclusion was decided without any recourse to the widely accepted 
criteria for distinguishing speculations that are acceptable within science 
from speculations that should properly be excluded from serious 
science—i.e., the Popperian criteria of testability and falsifiability. 
The decisions and actions of the architects of the Synthesis gave 
birth to the 'dark ages' of evolutionary science. We are only beginning 
to emerge from this era today. It has tended to produce the kind of 
science that results whenever reductionist, mechanistic science alone is 
deployed to understand complex, evolving phenomena. In the main, it 
produces rigorously justified trivia, precise and analytically rigorous 
mathematization that bears little relationship to reality, masses of highly 
accurate data that decides nothing of importance, an inability to say 
much of interest about large-scale complex phenomena, and journals full 
of junk papers that are soon forgotten. 
To date, evolutionary science has failed miserably to fulfill its 
enormous potential to contribute significantly to humanity's survival and 
future evolutionary success. Evolutionary science put a gun to its head in 
the 1940s and blew its frontal lobes away. 
But my intention here is not to deride the architects of the 
Modern Evolutionary Synthesis. They were reacting rationally and 
pragmatically to the circumstances that prevailed when they met to 
develop a synthesis. They had good reason to be extremely wary of the 
potential for evolutionary ideas to be misused. The Second World War 
was in part fuelled by racist ideologies that some had attempted to 
justify with quasi-evolutionary perspectives. Furthermore, if 
evolutionary science was to be accepted by mainstream science as a 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
66 
 
serious and legitimate academic discipline, it had to conform to 
mainstream views about what constituted 'proper' science. 
As mentioned previously, mainstream science then and now is 
underpinned by First Enlightenment, analytical/rational thinking. This 
level of cognition is very good at understanding mechanistic systems 
that are analysable. However, it is inadequate for understanding complex 
organic phenomena. The stunted form of evolutionary science that the 
founders of the Modern Synthesis established was the only kind that was 
likely to be acceptable to the wider scientific community at the time. The 
advent of an evolutionary science that is able to model and understand 
large-scale, evolving, complex evolutionary processes is still awaiting 
the emergence of Second Enlightenment science and metasystemic 
cognition. 
The evolutionary science that I surveyed in my final year at the 
University of Queensland continued to be retarded by profession-
building decisions taken by the architects of the Modern Synthesis thirty 
years before. I had no ambition to be part of it. 
What was I to do, given my strengthening intuition that a 
comprehensive understanding of large-scale evolutionary processes was 
vitally important to humanity, individually and collectively? Should I 
continue to pursue an academic career, given my intense interest in 
evolutionary ideas and my passion for 'big-picture' scientific thinking 
that is relevant to the human condition? 
Against the background I have outlined, becoming a typical 
academic evolutionary scientist was not a viable option. It would have 
equated to choosing intellectual death. Instead, I chose life. This meant 
leaving academic science behind. The last place to pursue a career 
dedicated to the development of 'big picture' evolutionary science was 
at a university. 
Instead, my plan was to find ways of earning a living that would 
give me free time to think and imagine. I would use this time to develop 
a general theory of evolution that covered not only biological evolution 
but also the evolution of all aspects of humanity, past, present, and 
future, including our psychology, consciousness, economic and political 
systems, ethics and values, and so on.

 
67 
 
8. 
 
 
 
Working for the Workers 
 
When I left academia, I had two kinds of work in mind. Both were 
consistent with my overriding priority of developing a new theory of 
evolution. Given this objective, the work involved could not be 
physically tiring, and it had to give me the spare time to do heavy-duty 
thinking, reading, and writing. 
But I had other goals. The work also had to provide a good 
middle-class income so that I could raise a family comfortably with a 
reasonable standard of living. I was not yet married, but I had a long-
term girlfriend, and we were having a great time together. 
The first possibility was teaching with its short daily working 
hours and long school holidays. The second was a government job in 
Canberra. 
However, circumstances initially pushed me in a different 
direction. But it was not until many years later that I realized that this 
other direction was, in fact, critically important for driving my further 
cognitive development. 
Of the two work options, my preferred choice was teaching. Now 
that I had a science degree, I could do a one-year university diploma, 
and emerge as a qualified teacher. Teaching jobs were plentiful, 
particularly in science and mathematics. 
However, given my imminent marriage, I first needed to get a 
job for a year or so to earn enough money to tide me over while I 
completed the teaching diploma. In Australia at that time, university 
education was free, but I needed to build up some savings if my family 
was to have a decent standard of living. 
The first job that caught my eye was as a trade union organiser 
with the Municipal Officers Association in Queensland. This union 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
68 
 
represented white-collar workers and professional staff in councils and 
other local government bodies. It seemed right up my alley. 
As I have mentioned, it was fundamental to my nature to set 
myself against authority, particularly when power was being used to 
exploit people who were not in a position to defend themselves 
effectively. In my two years working for the federal government in 
Canberra, I had become the union representative for my fellow 
employees in the main department in which I worked. I enjoyed 
negotiating with the departmental managers and pressuring them to take 
employee interests more seriously. In particular, I designed and 
negotiated the introduction of one of the first flexible working hours 
schemes to be introduced in government employment at the national 
level. 
I talked my way into the job with the Municipal Officers Union. I 
began organising members and dealing with disputes across Southern 
Queensland. I found it very fulfilling to advance the interests of 
employers by negotiating, arguing, manipulating, and pressuring the 
hierarchy in local councils.  
Before long, I was also representing members before industrial 
tribunals. Australia has a system of arbitration tribunals that are 
empowered to act as an 'industrial umpire' in disputes between 
employees and their employers. 
For example, when a dispute about wage increases cannot be 
resolved directly between employees and employers, either side can 
refer the issue to an industrial tribunal for determination by arbitration. 
The tribunal will hear arguments from both sides and impose its 
decision. It works like a normal court of law, but is less formal, and 
lawyers are mostly excluded from the proceedings to ensure that 
hearings do not get bogged down in technicalities. 
If any dispute I was handling went to an industrial tribunal, I 
wanted to be the advocate for the members rather than having to rely on 
someone else coming in to take that role. The only way I could develop 
and control the strategies used in a dispute was to carry out all the key 
roles that were involved, including that of advocate in any arbitration 
proceedings. I did not want to have to convince others of the correctness 

 
Working for the Workers 
 
 
69 
 
of the often-complex strategies I would develop in particular disputes. I 
had already learned that most did not have the cognitive capacity to 
identify effective strategies. 
The union was more than happy to have me develop the capacity 
to act as an industrial advocate. They saw that I was fully committed to 
developing the relevant skills and knowledge. They also could see that I 
was articulate, able to construct persuasive arguments, and could present 
a case confidently, with authority, and, as I was told, even with a touch 
of charisma. 
The work was extremely challenging, and therefore demanded 
the development of greater skills and capacities. This was not limited to 
the need for further horizontal development. As I will discuss below, it 
also provided me with a powerful impetus for additional vertical 
development. It was also lots of fun, and very satisfying. 
But at the end of two years, it was time to leave the union and 
start studying for my teaching diploma. It is usually nice to make 
another human being very happy, and I will never forget the smile of 
pure joy that split the face of the deputy head of the union when I told 
him that I was resigning my position. His all-consuming ambition was to 
take over as the head of the union. He was jubilant to see that the person 
who he believed was his greatest competitor was leaving. He obviously 
did not know that I had never shared his ambition at all, and that I was 
marching to the beat of an entirely different drummer. 
I started the course for the teaching diploma at the University of 
Queensland in 1980. However, it did not take me long to realize that 
teaching was not the path to my goals. Due to deeply ingrained 
personality traits, I did not like being in a position of authority over 
anybody, including students. This was particularly the case given that 
my job as a teacher meant that I had to use this authority to uphold and 
impose values that I often did not agree with or follow in my own life. 
For example, in my meandering life to that point, I had decided 
not to pursue many feasible career options that were highly valued in 
society. The world was at my feet, as I was told. But according to 
commonly-held values, I had squandered those opportunities. By the 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
70 
 
time I was doing the diploma, most of the kids who had been in my class 
at school were now doctors or lawyers. 
This clash in values meant that I could not interact authentically 
and openly with students. But there was an additional problem. I found 
that teaching required long hours of concentrated work if it were to be 
done well. Competent and authentic teaching could not be accomplished 
within school hours. It required dedication and commitment. I saw that 
teaching would occupy my mind for long hours each day. It would not 
leave me the extensive time needed to develop a comprehensive new 
theory of evolution. 
I pulled out of the diploma. I was now married with a family 
imminent. I needed to earn some money. So I got another job in the 
union movement. 
This time, I worked for the biggest union in Queensland, the 
Australian Worker's Union (AWU). The AWU represented mainly 
semi-skilled and unskilled workers across most industries, from 
hospitals to sugar mills to mines to civil construction. Given its size, the 
AWU had considerable political power within the worker side of politics 
in Queensland and nationally. During the 1930s, half the leaders of the 
Queensland Labor Government had been members of the AWU. 
I was employed as one of six industrial advocates. Our prime 
function was representing members in cases before arbitration tribunals. 
The work was extremely demanding, challenging, and highly pressured. 
The industrial advocate associated with a particular dispute inevitably 
developed the union's strategies and led the dispute from the union's 
side. This was because only the advocate had the legal and technical 
knowledge essential for developing effective strategies where the 
involvement of arbitration tribunals was possible. 
The advocate would have to assess when strike action might be 
cost-effective, what form it should take, when and in what circumstances 
the union might seek to get arbitration tribunals involved, how to 
involve other unions that might be affected by the dispute, how to 
counter the various tactics used by employers, develop and lead media 
campaigns, and so on. All the way through a dispute, the advocate would 

 
Working for the Workers 
 
 
71 
 
organise and address mass meetings of the relevant union members, and 
sell them his strategies. 
In large disputes in which strike action caused considerable 
disruption to the public, the advocate's strategies would also have to 
deal with inevitable interventions from the State Government. At the 
time, Queensland had a right-wing, anti-union State Government. It 
regularly intervened in any dispute involving large-scale strike action, 
threatening legal action and punitive measures. The Government found 
that a belligerent, anti-union stance was frequently to their political 
advantage. 
The stakes were high, and the pressure immense. The imperative 
in all disputes was to develop cost-effective strategies and actions for 
members. However, full strike action is extremely expensive for the 
workers involved. They have to survive without pay for the duration of 
the strike. And there is no guarantee that their strike action will be 
sufficient to pressure the employers to make worthwhile concessions. 
This was particularly the case where the State Government intervened 
on the employers' side. 
Given the complexity of large disputes, uncertainty bedevilled all 
strategizing. It was rarely possible to develop a strategy that was 
guaranteed to succeed. There were too many unknowns and too many 
different players and agendas involved. Strategies had to be continually 
adapted 'on the fly' as opponents acted in unforeseen ways and 
developed new tactics. 
It was common for industrial disputes to end in disaster from the 
perspective of the members involved, even when significant concessions 
were won. Often, the costs of strike action far outweighed the benefits. 
All this magnified the pressures and stresses on industrial 
advocates and others who led major industrial disputes. 
Of course, many industrial advocates and other union leaders 
reacted to these challenges in the way that human beings normally do: 
drinking problems were rife, they avoided organising disputes even 
where members were agitating strongly for direct action, they looked for 
scapegoats and excuses if things turned bad, they developed a hatred of 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
72 
 
members that insulated themselves from complaints and criticisms, and 
so on, and so on. 
But for me, it was precisely the kind of environment that I 
needed to propel my further cognitive development. 
I was strongly motivated to succeed. This was central to my 
personality. From a very young age, I was driven to win every argument, 
every skirmish, every fight I got involved in. Super-competitiveness was 
central to my nature. My brother and sister remember that even as a five-
year-old playing board games, I would do anything to beat them, 
including by bending the rules or by distracting them. 
This went hand in hand with perfectionism and a powerful need 
to control my environment. It was not until many years later that I 
realized that this constellation of traits was a symptom of certain kinds 
of autistic predispositions. But whatever the causes, as a union advocate, 
I was strongly motivated to do my job perfectly. Avoidance was not an 
option. Failure was not an option. 
Up until this point in my life, I had become adept at using what I 
have referred to somewhat metaphorically as First Enlightenment 
thinking. As I have outlined, this thinking is underpinned by the 
analytical/rational cognition that powered the rise of modern science. Its 
use is very effective for working out ways to achieve goals in 
circumstances that can be analysed and thought through. In other words, 
it works well when the circumstances that are being dealt with can be 
modelled and understood by relatively mechanistic thinking and mental 
models. 
As I have also noted, the ability to use analytical/rational 
cognition to adapt effectively can be turbocharged by 'going meta', i.e., 
by using analytical/rational thinking itself to recursively improve its own 
ability to solve adaptive problems. In practice, this entailed my 
development of a capacity to see my analytical/rational problem-solving 
strategies as object. Once I could stand outside my thinking and see it 
from the outside, I could then assess where my thinking strategies were 
limited and how they might be improved. 
My active development of this capacity had made my life very 
easy. I could easily work out how to achieve my goals, particularly 

 
Working for the Workers 
 
 
73 
 
where they involved challenges that could be analysed and thought 
through. With nearly all work in science, this capacity is all that is 
needed to function effectively. In relation to life, analytical/rational 
cognition is also very effective for achieving goals, provided you can 
avoid complex challenges that cannot be controlled with this level of 
thinking. However, avoiding complex social challenges is not much of a 
problem if, like me, you are self-centered and do not depend much on 
other people for your source of happiness. 
Generally, I could use my turbo-charged problem-solving 
capacities to get whatever I wanted. I treated my pursuit of happiness as 
a series of problems to be solved. 
My strategies for achieving happiness were not limited to trying 
to manipulate and control my external environment. I still remember an 
'Aha' moment I had in my second year at university at a demonstration 
against the Vietnam War. I noticed a placard that attacked Richard 
Nixon. The placard contained a drawing of Nixon looking suitably tricky 
and insincere with the caption: "Would you buy a used car from this 
man?". Underneath was an image of a person responding: "Well, I 
bought a used car from him and I am happy." Underneath that was the 
response: "If you bought a used car from this man and you are happy, 
then you would be happy with your arse on fire." 
In addition to the placard having the effect on me that was 
intended, it also evoked additional thoughts that were more impactful, at 
least for me. I saw that the placard could also be interpreted as 
identifying a particularly effective way of achieving happiness. If you 
could be 'happy with your arse on fire', your happiness would tend to be 
independent of external events and circumstances that might otherwise 
make you unhappy. 
This stimulated me to ponder a number of issues: How could I 
develop the capacity to be 'happy with my arse on fire'? How could I 
remake myself so that happiness was no longer threatened by events that 
might be outside my control? 
The possibility of intentionally developing such a capacity 
resonated somewhat with the approaches I had come across in my early 
teens in books about George Gurdjieff. As I have mentioned, Gurdjieff 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
74 
 
advocated the need for individuals to work on themselves in order to 
change their psychological functioning. Unfortunately, the books I had 
access to did not contain explicit, understandable techniques and 
practices for achieving this. 
But they were very clear that in order to develop higher 
capacities, individuals had to remake themselves comprehensively. This 
included developing the ability to change themselves to escape being 
jerked around by external circumstances, and to free themselves from 
the dictates of negative emotions and maladaptive conditioning. 
In my late teens and early twenties, these ideas led me to develop 
several techniques that helped me be happy despite negative experiences 
and emotions. These techniques were very limited compared with the 
practices I learned later in life (as we shall see in detail, these practices 
involve radical acceptance and related methods for disengaging from 
negative emotions and prior conditioning). But the earlier approaches 
worked well for me at the time. 
These techniques involved the use of cognitive reframing and 
related intellectual approaches. For example, I was able to take 
advantage of the fact that philosophy had failed to find ways to justify 
moral principles and norms. Philosophy was unable to construct rational 
arguments that could objectively justify what a person ought to do in 
particular circumstances. 
Rationality had killed God, but was unable to replace religion's 
ability to ground human values and morals. Taking full advantage of this 
vacuum, I adopted an amoral stance that licensed me to do whatever I 
wanted, including flouting social conventions and norms. I went on to 
develop a comprehensive philosophical perspective that legitimated the 
self-centered pursuit of my interests without guilt or self-recrimination. 
For someone with my psychological predispositions, it was a very 
convenient philosophy. 
This intellectual rationale meant that I was largely free to do 
what I liked. And I was very effective at manipulating my environment 
to achieve whatever it was that I wanted. Achieving happiness was 
simple and easy. 

 
Working for the Workers 
 
 
75 
 
But this did not mean that I often acted in ways that hurt other 
people or disregarded their interests. A fundamental part of my nature at 
that time was to help others and to be authentic in relationships. My 
deepest psychological predispositions led me to be left-leaning 
politically. I was strongly motivated to oppose the abuse of power and 
authority, and to defend the exploited and the underdog. At this stage of 
my development, I had not yet set out intentionally to remake myself in 
ways that changed these fundamental predispositions. 
What more did I need? I had it all worked out. My highly-
developed, meta-analytical/rational cognition seemed to be able to take 
me wherever I wanted to go. Like most mainstream scientists, I tended 
to think at the time that I had the potential to understand all those parts 
of reality that were understandable. Also, like them, except for 
occasional intuitions and feelings, I was blissfully unaware that there 
was a higher level of cognition that would enable me to understand far 
more about complex aspects of reality, including human political, social, 
and economic systems. 
At the time, I was even a tiny bit arrogant and obnoxious about 
my ideas and understandings. This particularly came to the fore when I 
was critiquing the arguments of religious people. Their belief systems 
were no match for the sword of reason that I wielded with abandon.  I 
sometimes refer to this period as the 'Richard Dawkins' phase of my 
cognitive development. Fortunately, my development did not end at this 
point. 
Working for unions and having to develop strategies that would 
work in highly complex, dynamic circumstances helped to blast me out 
of this complacency. This 'blasting' was essential. As I noted earlier, 
vertical development does not occur easily. It is extremely rare in 
current circumstances for an analytical/rational scientist to transition to 
Second Enlightenment thinking and metasystemic cognition during their 
adult life. In large part, this is because the levels that exist in cognitive 
development are dynamic equilibria. In systems theoretic terms, they are 
metastable. As such, they are resistant to change. They are constituted 
by a collection of capacities, skills, and beliefs that tend to be self-
reinforcing and self-validating. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
76 
 
An individual at a particular level can see the limitations of 
levels below, but cannot see the advantages of the next higher level. As I 
have noted earlier, you must be at the higher level in order to see what 
its advantages are, and to see the limitations of the level below. This is 
because the higher level is able to model aspects of reality that cannot be 
represented adequately at the lower level. If a level of cognition cannot 
represent something, it cannot see it and learn from it. Consequently, it 
tends to be a slave to the lower level. You cannot see what is missing 
from your thinking. You cannot see what you cannot see. 
For these reasons, individuals at a particular level will tend to 
dismiss critiques of their thinking that emanate from higher levels. 
Typically, they will reject attacks made from higher levels because they 
fail to meet the criteria used at their level to evaluate the validity of ideas 
and arguments. Often, they will be absolutely convinced that their 
position is correct, and that individuals at higher levels are delusional. 
This further entrenches them in their current level and inhibits vertical 
development. 
Mainstream scientists who develop an interest in the emerging 
field of Complexity Science have not necessarily transitioned vertically 
from analytical/rational to metasystemic thinking. As I have mentioned 
earlier, a proper understanding of current complexity and systems 
science demonstrates that most of its findings are largely a product of 
analytical/rational thinking, not metasystemic. Its models are exactly 
what you would expect when a particular level of cognition is used to 
investigate phenomena that can be understood only by mental models at 
a higher level of cognition. 
Nearly all modern complexity science represents an 
analytical/rational reduction of complex phenomena. It produces 
mechanistic models of aspects of complexity. When analytical/rational 
scientists attempt to investigate complex phenomena, they search for 
aspects of the phenomena that can be approximated by models that are 
analytically tractable and mechanistic. Such models will satisfy the 
relevant criteria used by analytical/rational science to assess whether 
theories and models represent 'true' science. When it produces such a 

 
Working for the Workers 
 
 
77 
 
model, analytical/rational science claims that it is developing 
Complexity Science. 
In contrast, if metasystemic cognition produces models that 
represent complex phenomena adequately, often those models will not 
meet the 'truth criteria' of analytical/rational science. Such models will 
not be analysable or be able to be thought through. They will go 
considerably beyond the relevant data, identifying patterns and processes 
that cannot be represented or derived analytically. Furthermore, the 
models and the understandings that they produce will not be able to be 
described adequately in writing or diagrams. Metasystemic mental 
models of complex phenomena will tend to be rejected as unscientific by 
analytical/rational science. 
A striking illustration of how individuals at these two different 
levels see each other's thinking was provided during an interaction 
between Bertrand Russell and Alfred North Whitehead in 1940. 
Whitehead and Russell had worked together at the beginning of the 20th 
century to produce the monumental Principia Mathematica. It was a 
heroic attempt to establish firm foundations for mathematics from an 
analytical/rational perspective. After this, they went their separate ways. 
Russell continued to use his brilliant analytical/rational thinking to 
address key philosophical issues. But Whitehead headed down the track 
of developing metasystemic cognition and used it to produce his process 
philosophy. 
When they met on a podium in New York many years later, 
Whitehead summed up the outcome of their different cognitive 
trajectories. Whitehead said: "Bertie says that I am muddle-headed, but I 
say Bertie is simple-minded." 
This comparison captures precisely how these different levels of 
cognition tend to see each other. Russell was a genius at the 
analytical/rational level, but failed to transition to the metasystemic 
level, except for occasional intuitions. As I have mentioned, he was my 
intellectual hero while I was reading in the Cairns Library, but as I 
developed cognitively, this did not last. 
I will return to these issues in detail later in the book when I 
identify practices and methods that can be used to scaffold this difficult 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
78 
 
vertical transition from First Enlightenment thinking to Second 
Enlightenment thinking and metasystemic cognition. 
My work as a union advocate provided the powerful motivations 
needed to drive my further vertical development. I was strongly 
motivated to succeed at my job, which demanded that I develop a 
capacity to strategize effectively in dynamic and complex circumstances. 
This strategizing could not be done effectively with analytical/rational 
thinking alone, no matter how successfully I had enhanced it recursively 
and consciously. 
These factors combined to provide me with strong incentives to 
break free from slavery to analytical/rational thinking and develop 
metasystemic cognition. 
If I had stayed in academia and pursued a career as a scientist, I 
probably would not have encountered such powerful incentives to 
develop my cognitive capacity. I would have remained in an 
environment where highly developed analytical/rational cognition would 
have been sufficient to produce a successful career. My scientific 
competitors would have been at the analytical/rational level. With that 
level of cognition, I could have achieved the rewards and accolades that 
come with a successful scientific career. 
Of course, I would still have had the intuitions and 
predispositions that generated my passion for 'big picture' evolutionary 
theorizing and propelled me into conflict with the academic staff in the 
Zoology Department at the University of Queensland. I would still have 
been stimulated by the work of evolutionary thinkers like Teilhard de 
Chardin, and would have wanted to extend their insights and re-establish 
them on broader and sounder foundations. But I would not have been 
embedded in an environment where an inability to develop metasystemic 
cognition would have led me to fail to achieve my goals, repeatedly and 
painfully. 
However, powerful incentives to develop metasystemic cognition 
do not create it overnight. This is evidenced by the fact that our current 
economic system generates many roles in which effective performance 
demands metasystemic cognition. 

 
Working for the Workers 
 
 
79 
 
For example, the CEOs and senior executives of multinational 
corporations continually face complex challenges involving 
dynamically-changing competitive, regulatory, and customer 
environments. However, very few respond to these pressures by 
developing a strong capacity for metasystemic cognition. Cognitively, 
most are floundering and out of their depth. They are well and truly in 
over their heads. Fortunately for them, very few of their competitors can 
do better. However, once a reliable method for scaffolding metasystemic 
cognition becomes available, this will change rapidly. Possessing this 
capacity will rapidly become mandatory for work in the upper echelons 
of business, government, and academia. 
When confronted with complex challenges, the first reaction of 
an individual at the analytical/rational level is often to double down on 
their use of analytical/rational thinking. Initially, this is what I tended to 
do in my union work. When facing the need to strategize in a complex 
workplace dispute, I would spend hours and hours in mental work, 
analysing and thinking-through different scenarios. I would envision 
possible strategies, possible responses, possible ways in which I could 
counter or take advantage of those responses, possible reactions to my 
counter moves, and so on, and so on, to the depth that was possible 
given my energy and time. 
With simpler challenges, this could work very well. However, as 
the number of interacting participants increased, the growing complexity 
quickly overwhelmed my capacity to keep track of what was relevant. 
As complexity increases, the number of possible interactions between 
participants undergoes a combinatorial explosion. This rapidly overloads 
thinking strategies that require analysis of all relevant elements and that 
build mechanistic models. My response was to spend even more time 
attempting to model all this complexity mentally. 
This was exhausting and stressful. However, with a lot of effort, 
it led to the discovery of at least some ways of handling complexity 
more effectively. In particular, I learned that word-based propositional 
reasoning is far too slow, ponderous, and simple to represent complex 
phenomena quickly and adequately. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
80 
 
I also discovered more about the kinds of mental processes that 
are capable of representing complexity.  These processes rely far less on 
words or other symbols, and more on images and flashes of images. 
These images do not necessarily resemble the elements in the complex 
systems under consideration. Often, they are just fleeting glimpses that 
may sometimes be associated with a number of words, but in other 
instances, they may bear little relationship to words or what they point 
to. 
Furthermore, I found that successful mental modelling of 
complex phenomena often demands that individual elements be 
represented collectively as patterns, structures, subsystems, and other 
larger-scale processes. These processes include the feedback loops and 
control structures identified by cybernetic approaches. This form of 
'coarse-graining' can take away the need to represent each element 
individually, and reduces the complexity that has to be explicitly 
represented and kept track of in operating mental models. Appropriate 
'chunking' and 'coarse-graining' can enable collections of individual 
elements to be represented by single mental images or flashes of images. 
I got better and faster at developing strategies that were effective 
in complex circumstances. For example, I developed the capacity to 
assess very quickly how I might manipulate the participants in a labour 
dispute, despite their conflicting interests. I became adept at identifying 
what combination of things they could agree to that were also in the 
interests of the workers I represented. 
I could walk into a room to participate in negotiations with the 
various parties involved in a dispute and almost instantly 'see' where the 
interests of each participant lay, identify where the various interests 
might overlap, and assess whether there was a sweet spot where the 
interests coincided with the interests of my members. In the absence of 
such a sweet spot, I could quickly assess whether I might be able to 
initiate strikes or other strategies that could change the interests of the 
participants in ways that would create a suitable coincidence of interests. 
Increasingly, I could make these kinds of complex judgments 
very quickly, without having to think through the possibilities 
consciously and laboriously, step by step. I developed a general mental 

 
Working for the Workers 
 
 
81 
 
model of how to make these judgments and assessments. This general 
model could represent and simulate the structure and dynamics of a wide 
range of situations involving conflicts of interest. In any given dispute, 
all I had to do was to plug the specific details into my general model, 
and harvest its predictions and insights. This process became largely 
automatic, and much of it happened in a flash. 
However, the process of learning and developing these kinds of 
techniques was long and slow. Nevertheless, I found it relatively easy to 
do better than others at strategizing in complex circumstances. This was 
sufficient for me to gain widespread recognition as a highly capable 
leader and strategist by others in my union, and in the industrial relations 
community more widely, despite my young age. But it was still very 
challenging to get it right in complex disputes. By the time I finished 
working for unions, I was far from being an accomplished metasystemic 
thinker. 
Nevertheless, the difficulties I encountered when attempting to 
develop complex mental modelling had a very important implication for 
my central goal—developing a new theory of evolution. My struggles 
with these challenges generated the strong intuition that my thinking was 
too rigid, too mechanistic, and too structured to enable me to accomplish 
my goal. Increasingly, I realized I needed to disrupt and loosen up the 
thinking capacities that had previously served me well. From the 
perspective of First Enlightenment thinking, I needed to become more 
muddle-headed—but in a way that could make sense of complexity. 
At the time, I did not know much about what I would need to do 
to achieve this. I knew that I had to become more intuitive and creative. 
I needed to be able to see large-scale patterns that cannot be perceived 
and understood with narrow analytical thinking alone. From my reading 
about the ideas of Gurdjieff and others, I had come to understand that to 
do so, I had to be able to disengage from incessant embeddedness in 
thinking and analysing, and instead let intuitions arise. However, I had 
no detailed understanding of how I could achieve such a capacity or 
what it might feel like to do so. Nevertheless, these intuitions 
increasingly primed me to be on the lookout for knowledge and practices 
that would enable me to achieve this. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
82 
 
A combination of factors led to the end of my work for the 
Australian Worker's Union and soon after, to the end of my career as a 
union advocate, organiser, and negotiator. 
First and foremost, this was due to the realization that while I 
worked for unions, I would never have the time to develop a new, 
general theory of evolution. The union work was all-consuming, highly 
stressful, and very demanding. Advocates who took their work seriously 
burnt out quickly, and a disproportionate number died relatively young 
through stress-related disease, often exacerbated by alcohol abuse and 
smoking. 
During my time at the AWU, I was smoking three packets of 
cigarettes a day. This took some doing. Often, I would use one cigarette 
to light the next. Frequently, I would wake up in the middle of the night 
to have a smoke. A friend from school days said that he and his family 
would amuse themselves watching the TV news by trying to spot me in 
reports of industrial disputes. He said that they could quickly tell 
whether I was involved in a dispute by looking for a plume of cigarette 
smoke rising from the group of negotiators, and then tracing it back to 
its origin. 
Furthermore, I could see that my days with the AWU were 
numbered. I was a square peg in a round hole (Again!). The AWU was a 
conservative, right-wing union. In part, it owed its large size to the fact 
that employers preferred it. Faced with a choice, many employers would 
prefer to have their employees represented by a conservative union like 
the AWU than by a more militant, activist, left-wing union. Employers 
would often pressure their employees to join the AWU. In many 
instances, the AWU was criticized for being a 'bosses union'—a union 
that often served the employer's interests and sold out the interests of 
employees. 
Through force of personality and intelligence, I had significantly 
changed the AWU's orientation, although, as circumstances were to 
prove, only temporarily. It was not that I had a wider, left-wing political 
agenda. It was just that I tried to win every dispute I led, and I was 
prepared to do whatever it took. No tactic or strategy was off-limits. For 
me, the end tended to justify the means.  

 
Working for the Workers 
 
 
83 
 
Soon, the AWU was leading major industrial disputes in 
Queensland. This often led to conflict with the anti-union State 
Government, and many employers wondered what had happened to their 
tame union. 
In my time as a union official, I played a major role in many 
serious disputes. I represented power station workers in the first-ever 
strike action that turned off electricity throughout most of Queensland. I 
organised a dispute that stopped garbage collection on the Gold Coast, 
Australia's prime national holiday destination. Then I went on national 
television warning tourists not to waste their vacation by holidaying 
there amidst rotting garbage. I led disputes that cut off the gas supply to 
parts of Queensland, stopped fuel supplies to much of Queensland (and 
went on television asking motorists not to make shortages worse by 
panic buying), cut water off strategically, closed hospitals (and used the 
media to request that any volunteers who took the place of employees 
not steal hospital cutlery and other equipment), and so on. 
When I commenced my job with the AWU, I had little 
knowledge of its internal politics and its role as a tame-cat union. Up to 
that point, I was largely science-orientated and educated. I had little 
knowledge about the complex social and political processes that shaped 
how people and organisations behaved within society. Initially, I was so 
naïve that I assumed unions would always pursue the interests of their 
members and that union employees would do the same. 
However, as I slowly began to understand the AWU's role in the 
State and how I was altering this radically, I also began to see that these 
changes were not sustainable. A militant AWU was beginning to lose 
the support of employers and governments. If it continued down this 
path, it could not continue to exist in its current form. It would become a 
much smaller union. This would reduce its political influence within the 
Labor Party (the political party in Australia that claims to represent 
worker interests). This was because the AWU's power within the Party 
depended on the number of votes it was allotted, and these were 
allocated based on its size. 
Increasingly, I began to realize that it was in the interests of 
many powerful forces outside the union to do what was necessary to 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
84 
 
return the AWU to its previous role. I saw that the simplest way for 
these forces to achieve this was to get rid of me from the union. I was 
the single cause of this threat to their interests. Furthermore, doing so 
would also be in the interests of many who held power within the union 
itself, who benefitted from the previous status quo, and who would lose 
out if the union continued down this path. 
I remember a particular event that drove home these realizations. 
I was talking to a journalist for a major Queensland newspaper on the 
phone. I had given him a great story about a hospital dispute the day 
before. Something prompted me to ask him how he saw the AWU and 
the way it went about representing its members. He said that he saw the 
AWU as a powerful, militant, left-leaning union that was prepared to 
fight strongly for its member's interests. When I heard this, I realized 
that it meant that my time at the AWU was strictly limited. Soon, they 
would come to get me. 
The final factor in ending my union employment was that I was 
also becoming a bit uncomfortable with what I was doing as a union 
leader. I was effective at winning most industrial disputes in which I was 
involved. I was able to develop complex and innovative strategies 
designed to manipulate opponents' interests and stay steps ahead of their 
counter-moves. I was good at maximizing the powerful forces that I 
could bring to bear on employers to persuade them to give in to our 
demands. But I was dealing with symptoms, not causes. 
I was adept at rectifying specific instances of the exploitation and 
underpayment of members. But I had no strategy for dealing with the 
larger-scale forces in society that produced these particular instances of 
exploitation and many more. No matter how successful I was at 
rectifying specific instances, these societal forces would continue to 
generate exploitation. At the time, I lacked the mental models that would 
enable me to see how society could be rearranged in such a way that 
exploitation would no longer emerge. 
It hit me that I was actually operating like the Red Brigade 'knee 
cappers' who were terrorizing rich families in Italy at the time. A key 
tactic of theirs was to machine gun the knees of the children of the rich 
and powerful. Like me, their ends justified their means. Also, like me, 

 
Working for the Workers 
 
 
85 
 
they had no feasible, 'big picture' plan for reorganising society 
appropriately. From the perspective of the society in which I was 
embedded, but to a somewhat lesser degree, I was also out of control and 
dangerous, just like the 'knee cappers'. 
This combination of factors caused me to start considering 
employment options outside the union movement. In particular, I looked 
for work that would give me a good middle-class income and enable me 
to provide for my family (I now had a wife and two young daughters). 
However, it also had to leave me with the time and energy to pursue my 
evolutionary theorizing. 
Broadly, it seemed that returning to government employment in 
Canberra was the best option for meeting both these criteria. 
But as things turned out, I did not leave the AWU at a time of my 
choosing, with another job already lined up. Instead, I got involved in an 
internal dispute over how a particular staff member was treated. Half-
heartedly, I organised a strike of union officials to protest against this 
treatment. Within a day, the AWU executive met and sacked me. 
Apparently, they thought that I was attempting to take over the 
union. They had no idea that I was looking to leave. The day after I was 
fired, I bumped into the head of the union in the street. He told me 
melodramatically (and rather narcissistically), that a part of him had died 
when I gave him no alternative but to sack me. But he was like that. And 
we had shared some extraordinary experiences together on the 
battlefields of workplace disputes. 
Within a few days, I commenced a six-month contract to work 
for the Queensland Nurses Union. This helped tide me over until I got a 
government job in Canberra. Although I did some valuable work for the 
nurses, a significant part of the reason for their support was compassion. 
They assumed that my dismissal was political and unjustified. This was 
because I had got to know some key staff in the Nurses Union 
previously and they knew my capabilities. Knowing that being sacked 
could be a very unpleasant and challenging experience, they decided to 
help me with a new job. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
86 
 
My time with the Nurses Union was the only period of work in 
my life in which I felt genuinely cared for. It was not something I looked 
for in employment, but it was a very pleasant experience.

 
87 
 
9. 
 
 
 
Working for the Government 
 
In early 1985, my wife, two young children, and I headed over 1000 km 
south from Brisbane and Queensland to live in Canberra. As I have 
mentioned previously, it is Australia's national capital, the seat of the 
federal Government, and largely a city of government employees. 
My new job was as a Class 9 officer in the Department of 
Industrial Relations. My work entailed providing the Government with 
policy analysis and advice about how Australia's industrial relations 
system should be regulated. This included assisting with the drafting of 
any legislative changes that the Government decided to pursue. 
As I have indicated, the goal of my move to Canberra was not to 
have a successful public service career. Rather, my overriding objective 
was to develop a new theory of evolution. 
Several times during my government employment, I attended 
meetings that began with an invitation to participants to say a little about 
their backgrounds and goals. I often told the meeting that my central 
purpose in working for government was to develop a new, 'big picture' 
theory of evolution. The other participants in the meeting invariably 
thought I was joking. 
My salary at the Class 9 level was enough to fund a good, 
middle-class lifestyle for my family. While our daughters were young, 
we decided that my wife would look after them at home, rather than 
engage in paid work in her profession as a registered nurse. We had 
found previously that when we both worked full-time in paid 
employment, we had less time with each other than we liked, and life 
was extremely busy. Now that we had two young daughters, I was more 
than happy that she was willing to be a full-time mother. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
88 
 
After a couple of years, we bought a block of Canberra's cheap 
land, and had a comfortable family home built in an established area 
with good public schools that were in easy walking distance. One of the 
great advantages of living in Canberra was its excellent public facilities, 
including schools and hospitals. Many of the public schools were at least 
as good as expensive private schools in the main capital cities. Of 
course, the quality of the public amenities in Canberra often produced 
envy in visitors from other capitals. I used to make it a point when I met 
other Australians to thank them profusely for the taxes they paid to help 
fund our facilities. 
Early after moving to Canberra, I experienced a series of 
challenges that drove me to look again at some of the techniques 
advocated by Gurdjieff and others for 'working on oneself'. Much of 
Gurdjieff's work on oneself was directed at becoming what he referred 
to as a 'self-evolving being'. Broadly, as I mentioned earlier, this 
described individuals who could change themselves at will, freeing 
themselves from past conditioning, negative emotions, and other 
predispositions that limited their effectiveness in the world. 
Deep at the back of my mind, I had carried the idea that a self-
evolving being would be able to achieve the ultimate: they would be 
able to be happy with their arse on fire. No matter how challenging the 
external circumstances, happiness could be achieved by working on 
oneself internally. 
As I have indicated, I had been intrigued with these ideas since I 
was a teenager. Previously, however, I had little need to attempt to put 
them into practice because life had been relatively easy for me. Union 
work had been very stressful at times, but I could generally strategize 
my way out of difficult circumstances fairly quickly. Furthermore, 
although I did not recognize this then, my incessant thinking and 
strategizing helped suppress unpleasant emotions. Embeddedness in 
thinking tends to fill the limited bandwidth of consciousness and reduces 
awareness of emotions. 
For these reasons, union challenges tended to drive me to 
develop intellectually, rather than to work on my emotions. 

 
Working for the Government 
 
 
89 
 
But this changed when I decided to give up my three-packet-a-
day smoking habit. Recognising its detrimental impact on my health, I 
had tried to quit smoking twice already in my final year working for the 
AWU. However, given the stress I was under, I soon went back to 
smoking. 
But when the AWU fired me, I resolved to ensure that something 
good would come from this experience. I decided never to smoke again. 
The motivation I got from this was powerful, and I have not smoked 
since, except occasionally when dreaming. But it was a rough ride for 
many months, and I looked for techniques to make it easier. 
Furthermore, I had always loved sugary treats, and took to eating 
two family packets of lollies each night as a substitute for smoking. 
Soon, I was putting on a lot of weight. The sedentary and largely stress-
free work of policy development did not help either. 
I realized that I also needed to overcome my sugar addiction 
when I was running to my car to avoid a rain shower. The rain had just 
started when I was about ten meters from my car, but this short sprint 
left me gasping for breath and having to rest. Clearly, I had to make 
another significant change to my behaviour. 
Unfortunately, neither Gurdjieff nor his followers who wrote 
about their experience with him were very clear about the nature of the 
practices and techniques that could train the capacity to be self-evolving. 
Furthermore, it seemed that hardly any of his followers (if any at all) had 
actually implemented his techniques and become self-evolving beings. 
However, after reading Gurdjieff's books and other resources, 
and also after experimenting on myself, I came to the conclusion that a 
process of silent 'self-observation' was at the core of his practices. The 
general idea was to engage in self-observation in real-time, while one 
was experiencing cravings for cigarettes, or food, or a negative emotion. 
The practice involved giving 'bare' attention to the actual 
sensations produced in the body by cravings or emotions. This attention 
was 'bare' and 'silent' in the sense that while self-observers were 
passively witnessing their sensations, they would not think about the 
experience. Only awareness was involved. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
90 
 
The effects of this silent self-observation could be enhanced by 
giving attention to the details of the sensations, e.g., their precise 
position in the body, their intensity, any changes occurring in them, and 
so on. The practice involved just sitting with and accepting the 
sensations—i.e., not reacting to them in any way, in action or in thought. 
I found that this kind of practice was indeed capable of taking 
away the unpleasantness of cravings and negative emotions. I could stay 
relaxed as I watched the cravings arise and then dissipate. They became 
just harmless sensations, coming and going. I did not have to eat or 
smoke to get rid of the unpleasantness of cravings. I could resist 
temptation, with ease. 
I also found that this approach worked even for the most intense 
pain I had experienced up until then—at the dentist. If I relaxed and 
experienced the pain as mere sensation, it was not painful any longer, 
regardless of whether the dentist had given sufficient time for the local 
anaesthetic to take effect. 
I used to look forward to going to the dentist as an opportunity to 
practice this technique. For further practice, I would tease myself with 
food cravings. I would open the fridge's freezer compartment and look in 
at the ice cream, coming into the present and watching the cravings 
closely as they strengthened. I would stand there until the cravings were 
just sensations in my body that no longer motivated any action. Then, I 
would close the fridge and walk away. 
There seemed to be two mechanisms at work here—one 
operating 'in the present' as I have described, and the other in the longer 
term. This second mechanism seemed to be able to rewire or recondition 
myself permanently. 
The second technique made sense in the context of the 
elementary learning theory I first encountered in the book 'Psycho-
Cybernetics' and then in Psychology 101 at university. By accepting 
negative feelings and sitting with them, responses to those feelings that 
had been learned previously but that were no longer helpful would be 
extinguished. The learned connection between the feelings and the 
reaction would be broken. The feelings would no longer evoke the 
unhelpful responses. 

 
Working for the Government 
 
 
91 
 
For example, negative emotions can trigger eating behaviours 
that tend to remove the unpleasant feelings produced by the emotion. 
Eating is used to self-soothe. However, instead of acting out this 
conditioning, individuals can simply give bare attention to the cravings 
and accept them. If this is done repeatedly, eventually the conditioned 
response will dissipate and lose force, permanently. 
In later years, I learned that clinical psychology already uses 
similar applications of learning theory in diverse forms as a tool for 
changing unhelpful learned behaviours. An example is exposure therapy, 
which can extinguish learned fears that manifest as phobias (e.g., fear of 
flying in airplanes). I realized that the addition of silent 'self-
observation' to these diverse approaches could turbo-charge their 
effectiveness. 
These techniques worked effectively for stopping smoking and 
for regulating eating. But once I overcame the challenges that motivated 
their use, I moved on to other things. It was years before I experimented 
further and worked out in depth how self-observation and related 
approaches worked. Once I understood this, I was able to see how these 
techniques could be further enhanced and used more widely. Eventually, 
I grasped how they could be used more generally to enable individuals 
to free themselves from the dictates of their evolutionary and social past, 
as well as their upbringing. I learned how to scaffold the capacity to 
become a self-evolving being. 
Soon after I moved to my new job in Canberra, I began working 
earnestly on developing a new 'big picture' theory of evolution. I used 
several strategies. First and foremost, I had to get across the work of 
others that was relevant to my project. This meant reading everything 
interesting I could find about large-scale processes and patterns in 
evolution. This required focusing not only on descriptions of these 
patterns, but also on attempts to identify the systems-level causal 
processes that produced them. 
I developed two other strategies that were designed to ensure that 
this reading was as productive as possible for my goals. The first was to 
hold in my mind as my reading proceeded several key unresolved 
evolutionary problems. I had accumulated these at university and during 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
92 
 
previous reading. They were issues that evolutionary science fell far 
short of solving adequately at that time. These were the irritations I 
hoped would eventually produce pearls of wisdom for my new, general 
theory of evolution. 
The most significant of these (and ultimately the most 
productive) was to explain how cooperation and altruism could evolve, 
given that self-interest was generally expected to prevail in evolutionary 
competition. Richard Dawkins had outlined this issue very clearly in his 
popular science book, 'The Selfish Gene'. He argued convincingly that 
organisms that use some of their resources to help others without any 
benefit to themselves, will tend to be eliminated by natural selection. 
This was a very significant issue for previous attempts to develop 
'big picture' theories of evolution. Most notably, Teilhard de Chardin 
claimed to have identified a large-scale trend in the evolution of both 
matter and life. He suggested that this trend led to the progressive 
integration of matter and life into larger-scale organisations. This 
occurred through the repetition of a step-wise process in which smaller-
scale entities were integrated into larger-scale ones. For example, 
elementary particles were integrated into atoms, atoms into molecules, 
molecules into the first simple cells, simple cells into the more complex 
eukaryote cells, complex cells into multicellular organisms, multicellular 
organisms into animal and human societies, and so on. 
Teilhard's failure to identify plausible causal mechanisms that 
would produce this pattern resulted in modern evolutionary science not 
taking his ideas seriously. 
Another key challenge that I held in my mind as I read was 
whether a unified theory could be developed that could explain both 
biological and human evolution as special cases of a more general and 
abstract theory. Such a theory might, for example, demonstrate that the 
mechanisms that produce evolutionary change have themselves evolved. 
Within this broader framework, gene-based evolution and cultural 
evolution might be seen as specific examples of wider processes. 
A further potential for such a unified theory would be to produce 
a comprehensive understanding of human evolution that can account for 
the evolution of all aspects of humanity. This would include the 

 
Working for the Government 
 
 
93 
 
evolution of our political, social, and economic systems, as well as 
human psychological evolution and the evolution of intelligence. 
Ultimately, a comprehensive theory of evolution seemed to me to 
have the potential to provide an overarching framework for all other 
sciences and for what is now called the humanities. It was also likely to 
enable humanity to understand how we needed to evolve in the future in 
order to continue to survive and thrive. 
An additional major challenge was to understand within an 
evolutionary framework what is commonly referred to as spiritual 
development and attaining higher levels of consciousness, including 
enlightenment. 
If this was not enough, I also wanted to pursue the intuition that a 
comprehensive understanding of how past evolution has shaped 
humanity and will also shape us in the future could provide us with an 
objective method to found our values, morals, and goals. In particular, it 
could enable us to objectively answer the key existential question that 
faces all of us: How should we live our lives? What should we do? 
My third strategy had two components, with one meta to the 
other. First, the primary purpose of my reading was to motivate me to 
build my own mental models of large-scale evolutionary processes and 
patterns. I did not read just to understand the models developed by 
others. Instead, in relation to every issue of interest, I focused on 
developing my own models. This was aided by the key evolutionary 
challenges that I held in mind as I read and thought about my reading. In 
this way, I used my reading to generate novel thinking, not just to 
recombine the ideas of others. 
The meta-component involved using my model-building skills to 
enhance my capacity to build effective mental models of complex 
phenomena. My goals were not just to build novel mental models that 
addressed key challenges in evolutionary theory—they were also to 
improve my capacity to build such models. 
For example, when I found a thinker who was addressing issues 
similar to those that engaged me, I would put the book down and build 
my own mental models of the relevant issues from first principles. As far 
as possible, I started this model building from scratch, thereby avoiding 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
94 
 
being biased by existing knowledge and assumptions. Then, I would 
pick up the book again and compare my models with those developed by 
the book. If its their models were superior in any respect, I would then 
consider how I could have used a better approach to build my models. 
The result was that I enhanced not just my models, but also my meta-
models. I did this repeatedly whenever I came across new thinkers who 
had developed a different approach to the relevant issues. I recursively 
improved both my models and meta-models. 
The goal of my reading was not just to understand the existing 
state of evolutionary science and to take current knowledge as a set of 
foundations to build upon. Consequently, I was not afraid to explore 
ideas outside of accepted science to stimulate my modelling and meta-
modelling. In fact, intelligent mystical and new-age ideas often proved 
far more fertile for stimulating new models than mainstream science did. 
However, the resultant models often bore little resemblance to the ideas 
that stimulated them, particularly once they were cleansed of woolly 
thinking and mysticism. Nevertheless, I could not have developed these 
models if my thinking had remained firmly rooted in current science. 
As I progressed, it became even clearer to me that existing 
science could not deal effectively with complex phenomena, such as 
those that manifest in large-scale evolutionary processes. The criteria 
that mainstream science used to assess whether particular approaches 
were sufficiently rigorous to be accepted as science, could not help but 
be violated by genuine systems thinking. 
For example, complex systems models almost always go far 
beyond the relevant data. Furthermore, reductionist approaches cannot 
work for truly complex phenomena. As the number of interacting 
components increases, analytic models are quickly overwhelmed by 
combinatorial explosion and analytical intractability. I soon discovered 
that I had to look on the fringes of science and far beyond. 
My explorations took me to the work of thinkers such as Gregory 
Bateson, Stafford Beer, cyberneticists more generally, key thinkers in 
general systems theory, Tolstoy, Ken Wilber, Madam Blavatsky and 
other theosophical writers, Gurdjieff, Steiner, Heidegger, Nietzsche, and 
many others. And my reading led me to discover that there were thriving 

 
Working for the Government 
 
 
95 
 
communities of systems thinkers outside the 'hard' scientific disciplines 
in human organisational theory, economics, and even architecture. 
These strategies also contributed significantly to implementing 
my intuition that to develop a new 'big picture' theory of evolution, I 
needed to de-structure and de-mechanise my thinking. This intuition told 
me that my thinking was too analytical, too reductionist, and too linear. 
Although this kind of mechanistic thinking had proven very effective for 
me in many areas in the past, it seemed that it would be far less creative 
for generating complex models of evolutionary processes. 
At that time, I had no specific strategies for breaking up my 
analytical thinking and preventing it from crowding out the kind of 
intuitive, 'big picture' thinking I needed for my grand theorizing. It was 
not for another five or so years that I began to realize that there were 
specific practices that could be adapted for this purpose. These practices 
could enhance my ability to integrate intuitions and pattern-recognition 
capacities into my thinking.  
However, at this time, I was aware that certain actions I could 
undertake in my daily life could facilitate this in specific cases. For 
example, sleeping on problems, walking in nature, having a shower, 
leaving issues alone for a few days, taking breaks, and even a bout of flu 
could lead to novel insights. Eventually, I came to understand the nature 
of the psychological processes that underlay these approaches and that 
facilitated the insights they produced. This enabled me to adapt and 
develop specific practices that could maximize their effectiveness. In 
time, I learned how to turn them into cognitive technologies. 
Eventually, I realized that the reading strategy I had adopted was, 
in fact, the only way in which the writing and ideas of genuine systems 
thinkers could be understood in their full complexity. It is only by 
building, testing, and improving one's own models that one can 
understand the complex models that systems thinkers used to generate 
the ideas that they have written down. You will not be able to 
understand their models simply by reading and understanding their 
writing in a straightforward manner. 
This is because of the limitations of written language. Writing is 
intrinsically sequential, mechanistic, and linear. It cannot capture 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
96 
 
dynamical complexity. It can effectively describe analytical/rational 
thinking, but not genuine complex thinking. Words do not even exist for 
many of the processes that constitute complex reality. 
Consequently, when writing a book or an article, the best that a 
systems thinker can do is to write about aspects of their models that are 
capable of being represented using written language. They are unable to 
write down adequate descriptions of the complex models themselves. 
Instead, when systems thinkers write about their complex ideas, they 
have no option but to reduce them to compilations of analytical/rational 
argument, mechanistic models, and supporting evidence. Their complex, 
dynamic, mental models cannot be described adequately in writing. 
Consequently, if a reader is to understand the complex models 
that a genuine systems thinker used to generate their book or article, the 
reader has to reverse this process. The reader needs to reconstruct from 
the written, analytical/rational account the complex models that the 
thinker used to generate the ideas. Of course, they will not be able to do 
this unless they have achieved or are developing the capacity to be a 
genuine systems thinker themselves. 
The demands of my day job helped me in important ways to 
succeed with my evolutionary project. In particular, it encouraged me to 
use my growing ability for recursive self-improvement to enhance my 
writing skills. As I have mentioned, English had always been my worst 
subject at school, by far. I could not get 100 percent as I could in maths 
and science. This is because the tasks required in English could not be 
reduced to a set of rules that I could learn and apply faultlessly. Rules 
existed for some areas of English, such as grammar and spelling, but 
there were many exceptions to the rules. Identifying clear rules that 
could assist in writing essays was even more challenging. At school, I 
made very little progress in developing algorithms that could enable me 
to construct 'well-written and interesting' essays. 
However, my government policy work demanded that I be able 
to write about complex ideas in a simple, concise, and easy-to-
understand fashion. The central task to be performed by a policy advisor 
was to produce briefs on issues where the government might need to 
establish a new position or defend an existing position. In most cases, 

 
Working for the Government 
 
 
97 
 
the briefs were written for the Minister responsible for the Department. 
The briefs had to be clear, short, and easily digested by a Minister who 
was always extremely busy, had little time to read, but who had to be 
across a diversity of complex issues so that he or she could respond 
coherently when questioned by an often-antagonistic media.  
The most frequent form of briefing required by the Minister 
involved the preparation of Possible Parliamentary Question Time 
briefs. Whenever Parliament was sitting, the Opposition had an 
opportunity each day to question Ministers and the Prime Minister about 
their policies. Typically, questions were intended to expose flaws in the 
Government's approach. The briefs provided to the Minister to prepare 
him for possible questions often had to be provided at very short notice. 
Issues might have been raised in the morning newspapers, and it would 
be necessary for the Minister to have his briefs about them by 11 am. 
When training new staff, I often drew on my background in 
Zoology to use a penguin metaphor to help them understand their role in 
preparing briefs for the Minister. The mother penguin would leave the 
young in the nest and travel widely to collect various food items. She 
would masticate these thoroughly to produce an almost pre-digested 
slurry. When the mother returned to the nest, she would vomit this slurry 
into the open mouths of her young. I would tell new staff that if they 
wanted a successful career in policy development, they should see 
themselves as a mother penguin, and the Minister as one of their young. 
In response to these work demands and their pressures, I quickly 
learned how to structure complex written material, utilize formats that 
worked best for particular purposes, make material easily digestible, 
know what phrases and substructures were useful in particular 
circumstances, and so on. I recursively improved these skills at every 
opportunity. Most days during the lunch break, I would walk for an hour 
for exercise. In the early days of my new job, I often wrote and rewrote a 
brief in my head. Whenever I came up with something effective, I would 
identify the general principle that underlay it so I could use it in many 
other situations. 
Work got progressively easier. I could get across the relevant 
subject matter quickly. Once I had identified and internalised the 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
98 
 
relevant writing skills, I could deliver what was wanted in a short time. 
This left me more time to spend on my evolutionary work. 
However, as you may have noticed, my work did not demand 
that I develop the ability to write creatively and evocatively. I never did 
work on myself to develop those skills. You will have to settle for 
clarity. 
Another benefit that my employment provided for my 
evolutionary theorizing was direct experience of the operation (and 
malfunctioning) of the complex systems that manifest as bureaucratic 
organisation. I have mentioned that my reading program soon took me 
through the readily-available papers and books that applied complex 
systems thinking to evolution. Consequently, I had searched far and 
wide for disciplines that were less allergic to intelligent and creative 
thinking about complex phenomena. I found that human organisational 
science was such a field. I discovered that it had long valued general 
systems and cybernetic approaches to understanding human 
organisation, including businesses and bureaucracies. 
My employment provided me with direct experience in human 
organisations that I could use to test my relevant mental models as I 
developed and improved them. For example, I soon realized that the 
Division of about 60 people I worked in contained many highly 
intelligent and educated people. Most held legal qualifications because 
much of the work involved interpreting existing legislation and drafting 
new provisions. However, my experiences at work soon raised an issue 
that often features in complexity science: it is frequently the case that the 
whole is far more than the sum of its parts. An organisation often has 
emergent capacities that enable it to achieve outcomes that cannot be 
produced by the parts acting independently. 
What struck me and what demanded explanation was that this 
was not the case for the Division in which I was embedded. Very often, I 
found that the organisation as a whole was capable of far less than the 
sum of the abilities of its staff. This organisation of highly-educated and 
talented employees tended to produce collective outputs that were often 
less competent and insightful than the sum of the capacities of the 
individuals involved. 

 
Working for the Government 
 
 
99 
 
This and related curiosities drew me into developing mental 
models of how my organisation tended to self-organise incompetence 
rather than quality work. I wanted to understand how so many smart and 
capable people could produce so little of value. How was it that they 
could produce outcomes that were not actually wanted by any individual 
within the organisation? 
These issues led me to consider the nature of the incentives and 
disincentives that the organisation provided to its members. I began to 
see, for example, that these incentives tended to reward risk averseness; 
that this is particularly the case in bureaucracies in which the basis for 
all decisions is recorded and available for re-evaluation and attribution 
of blame for years into the future; that cooperation and collaboration 
often were not in the interests of employees even though they could 
potentially produce great benefits for the goals of the organisation (e.g., 
if employees kept specialist knowledge and skills to themselves, rather 
than sharing them with others, they could become indispensable to the 
organisation); that the levels of incompetence at higher levels were 
much greater than predicted by the 'Peter Principle' (this Principle 
predicts that individuals will continue to be promoted to higher levels 
until they get to a level at which they are clearly incompetent. However, 
the Principle fails to recognise that in a mature organisation, this will not 
stop the promotion of individuals to even higher levels of incompetence. 
This is because the continued operation of the Principle eventually 
means that those who decide on promotions are already at their level of 
incompetence and consequently will fail to recognise the incompetence 
of those applying for promotion); and so on. 
These and subsequent experiences propelled me toward 
developing a general theory of organisation. In particular, it identified 
how organisations of all kinds evolve and self-organise. The theory was 
general in the sense that it applied to organisations of entities at all 
levels: e.g., the organisation of molecular processes into the first cells, of 
cells into multicellular organisms, of organisms into animal societies, 
and of humans into tribes, corporations, nation-states, and so on. 
After about a year of ostensibly working on legislative policy 
issues, I was successful in getting a promotion to a Class 10 position in 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
100 
 
another Division within the Department of Industrial Relations. The 
attraction of this job was that I got my own office. This enabled me to 
position my desk so that no one could look over my shoulder and see 
what I was reading or writing. I also had additional staff to whom I 
could delegate work. 
The work involved attempting to ensure that semi-government 
bodies did not embarrass the Government by breaking the Government's 
guidelines that restricted what pay raises the bodies could give to their 
employees. I was responsible for regulating several of these bodies, 
including Australia's public broadcaster (the ABC), the bank that was 
originally established by the national Government (the Commonwealth 
Bank), and the Australian National University. 
The Senior Executives who ran the Division were never very 
clear about the details of what the other Section Heads and I were to do 
to achieve this goal. They never provided us with any powers that would 
enable us to align the interests of the semi-government bodies with those 
of the Government in this area. Without some source of power, we could 
not even find out easily what the bodies were doing about wages and 
conditions for their employees. Whenever they found it within their 
interests to breach the Government guidelines, they were incentivized to 
hide their breaches from us. 
When asked by friends and others what my work involved in 
practice, I used to say that I had only worked in the Division for six 
months or so, and had not yet been there long enough to be told, or to 
work it out for myself. I was joking, but not by much. 
Given my evolutionary goals, it seemed like the dream job. 
However, I succumbed to temptation after I had been there for less than 
a year. I came across a newspaper advertisement for a position that 
really did seem like my dream job, given all my interests. It was for the 
Manager of Australia's North Eastern Fisheries, based in the Australian 
Fisheries Service in Canberra. 
At first, it seemed ridiculous to consider that I would have a 
chance of getting such a job. I had never worked in fisheries 
management, and had done only one unit about fisheries in my 
university degree. I dismissed the thought of applying. But over the next 

 
Working for the Government 
 
 
101 
 
few days, I began to see that I could make a case for the job that might 
get me considered seriously.  
For example, the job was at the Class 11 level, only one above 
the level I had already attained. Furthermore, because the position was 
based in Canberra, an inland city a couple of hours' drive from the 
nearest coastline, it was not likely to be an attractive location for marine 
scientists. Part of my reason for moving to Canberra had been to live 
somewhere far away from fishing opportunities that could distract me 
from my evolutionary theorizing. This factor could work strongly in my 
favour in getting a job as a fisheries manager based in Canberra. 
So, I applied for the job and went to the interview. I made the 
case to the selection panel that although I had never actually worked in 
fisheries management, the work I had done previously contained all the 
key skills and capacities that were required of a fisheries manager. I 
outlined in detail how my employment record demonstrated that I could 
perform these capacities at a very high level. 
In preparation for the interview, I had also spent a couple of days 
studying the economics and biology of fisheries management, so I was 
able to give them impressive answers to the questions they asked about 
fisheries management. And, of course, I had actually been a licensed 
Master Fisherman operating in some of the relevant fisheries. 
 
 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
102 
 
 
 

 
103 
 
10. 
 
 
 
Back to Fishing 
 
A month later, I was the Manager of Australia's North Eastern Fisheries. 
I was responsible for managing the Commonwealth fisheries from 
Sydney to and including the Torres Strait. This comprised all fisheries in 
the Torres Strait and the commercial fisheries between the Strait and 
Sydney that lie outside Australia's continental shelf. The relevant State 
governments managed the fisheries on the shelf. 
Of these, the Torres Strait fisheries were the most interesting and 
challenging to manage. Because the Torres Strait and its Islands were 
within the territorial limits of both Australia and Papua New Guinea, an 
international treaty had been agreed by the two countries to resolve the 
overlapping claims. The Treaty also took account of the fact that the 
Indigenous people of the Torres Strait and of the adjacent areas of PNG 
(who differed somewhat in racial origins), had both historically 
intermingled in the Strait, and used the fisheries and other resources. 
Furthermore, Torres Strait Islanders are all Australian citizens, even 
though some of their islands are only a few kilometers from PNG. 
In relation to fisheries management, the Treaty prioritized 
traditional fishing by the indigenous peoples over commercial fishing. 
This all meant that parts of the fisheries in the Torres Strait were 
managed solely by Australia, parts solely by PNG, and parts jointly by 
Australia and PNG. 
The relevant Commonwealth and State Fisheries Ministers 
exercised Australia's responsibilities jointly. The Ministers were advised 
by a Consultative Committee that included representatives of Torres 
Strait Islanders, commercial fishermen, fisheries scientists, and both the 
State and Commonwealth fisheries managers. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
104 
 
As the Commonwealth Manager, I was ultimately responsible for 
advising the relevant national and State Ministers about how the 
fisheries should be managed, in light of input from the Consultative 
Committee. In relation to the fisheries jointly managed with PNG, we 
would travel to PNG a couple of times a year to resolve relevant 
management issues. 
Even without these complexities and potential conflicts of 
interest, fisheries management is notoriously difficult. Most commercial 
fisheries around the world are heavily overfished, and many have 
collapsed. Almost none have been managed to maximize economic 
returns in a way that is sustainable in the long term. 
The challenges inherent in fisheries management result from 
what is known as 'the tragedy of the commons'. This dynamic arises 
when there is unrestricted access to a natural resource such as a fishery. 
In such a case, it is in the immediate interests of each fisherman to take 
as many fish as he can catch profitably. Individual fishermen might 
realize that if they all continue to fish on this basis, the fishery will likely 
collapse, and all fishermen will lose. However, if any individual 
fisherman attempts to prevent this by voluntarily limiting what he 
catches, he will lose personally, and his restraint will not protect the 
fishery. It will remain in every other fisherman's immediate interest to 
continue maximizing their catch. They will realize that if they were to 
restrain their catch voluntarily, it would reduce their income but achieve 
nothing. This is the tragedy. 
In general, this problem can be solved only by setting up a 
coordination mechanism that will require all fishermen to adhere to 
appropriate limitations to their catch rates. Significantly, since it will 
also be in the immediate financial interests of all fishermen to break the 
restrictions if they can get away with doing so, the coordination 
mechanism must also include an enforcement process that punishes any 
who breach the restrictions. If an effective mechanism is implemented, it 
will tend to align the immediate interests of all fishermen with the 
longer-term interests of the fishery as a whole. The tragedy of the 
commons will have been overcome. 

 
Back to Fishing  
 
105 
 
The biggest challenge in fisheries management is to get the right 
management mechanisms in place. This is difficult in Australian 
fisheries management because the processes that are used to decide 
management arrangements are generally biased in many ways. They do 
not guarantee that effective management is implemented. 
Broadly, this is because the interests of those involved in 
establishing management rules are not necessarily aligned with those of 
the fishery as a whole. Often, their interests conflict with successful 
management. Furthermore, the particular interests that end up being 
served by management arrangements tend to be those that are the most 
powerful. 
For all significant Australian fisheries, the Minister is the 
ultimate decision-maker. The Minister is typically advised by the 
Fishery Manager and a Consultative Committee that comprises 
representatives of relevant interest groups, including representatives of 
the commercial fishermen. However, the problem is that the 
representatives of commercial fishermen tend to support their own 
individual interests, not those of the fishermen they are supposed to 
represent. They typically support management arrangements that are 
biased in favour of their own particular circumstances—e.g., the size of 
their boat, their fishing method, the port they fish from, and so on. 
Fisheries scientists are typically biased toward supporting the 
kind of research that they specialise in. This will ensure that they and the 
institution they work for will likely end up with the research funding. 
The Minister is often biased in favour of taking whatever decisions are 
in the political interests of himself and his political party. The fisheries 
manager will tend to make decisions that are best for his career in the 
short term. He hopes he will have moved on to another position by the 
time the fishery collapses. And so on. 
If a fishery were to be managed effectively, the Manager had to 
ensure that management arrangements were put in place that were often 
contrary to the interests of powerful players in the fishery. I used to 
describe the job of a fisheries manager as standing between a herd of 
starving pigs and their trough, trying to prevent them from eating 
everything at once. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
106 
 
It was not until years later that I came across the work of Elinor 
Ostrom. She studied the kinds of management arrangements that 
communities exploiting a natural resource would tend to put in place to 
overcome tragedies of the commons. Broadly, her research suggested 
that management restrictions that enabled the resource to be utilized 
fairly and sustainably tended to self-organise through consensus. She 
was eventually awarded a Nobel Prize for her work on these issues. 
Ostrom's findings proved very popular amongst those with post-
modernist sensibilities. They tend to abhor forms of organisation that 
rely on power and hierarchies, and hope that problems like the tragedy 
of the commons can be resolved by negotiation amongst equals. They 
readily accepted Ostrom's hypothesis that the members of the relevant 
communities possessed the foresight to see that appropriate restrictions 
would need to be applied to users of the resource in order to ensure its 
sustainability in the long term.  
My direct experience was at odds with these hopes and dreams. 
In my experience, exploiters of resources (including Indigenous ones 
from both the Torres Strait and PNG) would use whatever power they 
could muster to advance their own particular interests at the expense of 
others. Ostrom's predictions might apply where all the users of a natural 
resource were equal in power both in the short and long term. However, 
it is difficult to imagine how this condition could be met in the real 
world, particularly over long periods of time. 
Furthermore, Ostrom's research tended to disguise the necessary 
involvement of top-down power in enforcing whatever rules are made to 
manage a natural resource. In general, exploiters will not abide by 
management rules unless they are sufficiently punished if they flaunt 
those rules. This punishment will not be effective unless it is 
implemented by a process with sufficient power to punish all those who 
break the rules, without exception. 
In short, fisheries management requires a system of powerful 
governance and enforcement if it is to be successful. Once Ostrom's 
research is properly understood and her downplaying of the role of 
power is seen, it is clear that her findings reflect these necessities. Her 
research does not conflict with recognition of the central role of power 

 
Back to Fishing  
 
107 
 
in the general models of the evolution of cooperation that I was to 
develop in coming years, and that were significantly influenced by my 
fisheries experience. 
The challenges that I faced as a fisheries manager were similar to 
challenges that the evolutionary process has faced many times during the 
evolution of life on Earth. How do you get self-interested individuals to 
cooperate to act in the interests of a larger-scale organisation when it is 
against their immediate interests to do so? 
When life first emerged as simple proto-cells, each living entity 
was less than a millionth of a meter in diameter. But as I mentioned 
earlier, living entities did not remain forever at this microscopic scale. 
Instead, cooperatives of these entities emerged to form larger-scale 
entities. Then, cooperatives of these emerged to form living entities of 
an even larger scale. This process repeated itself many times in a step-
wise fashion. Now we have cooperative organisations on the scale of 
continents, e.g., nation-states. 
However, at every step in this long climb towards ever-
increasing integration, evolution had to find a way to overcome the 
competitive dynamics that undermined the emergence of larger-scale 
cooperation. Evolution needed to overcome the barriers to the 
emergence of cooperation which Richard Dawkins and others have 
identified so clearly. It needed to find a way to combine the entities at 
each level into the cooperative organisations that became the larger-scale 
entities at the next level. 
However, unlike most fisheries managers, evolution has found 
ways to overcome these kinds of challenges. It discovered ways to solve 
the universal problem that otherwise impedes the evolution of 
cooperative organisation, no matter how beneficial the cooperation. 
For example, evolution has produced our bodies, which are each 
cooperative organisations of trillions of cells. Every one of our cells 
spends its existence pursuing its own immediate cellular interests. Yet 
somehow, these self-centered actions combine to produce our thinking, 
our speech, and our digestion. 
I became a fisheries manager because of my obsession with 
fishing. But doing so drove me to gain a far greater understanding of 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
108 
 
why the trajectory of the evolution of life on Earth takes the shape that it 
does. Gradually, I began to see why the forms of organisation at all 
levels of living processes have common dynamical architectures. 
I realized that they took this form because it solved the 
fundamental challenge of how to organise self-interested entities into a 
cooperative. Consequently, this architecture manifests in all living 
organisations, from cells to multicellular organisms to human 
corporations and nation-states, and so on. I began to see how these forms 
of organisation operated to ensure that the pursuit by individuals of their 
own immediate interests caused them to act in the interests of the 
organisation as a whole. 
Once I saw this, it became obvious why natural section drove 
evolution towards the step-wise emergence of cooperative organisation 
of ever-increasing scale: once evolution overcomes the barrier to 
cooperation at a particular level, larger-scale cooperatives can emerge 
successfully at that level. These cooperatives have the potential to 
outcompete individual entities that continue to live a solitary existence 
and that do not join cooperatives. As we see continually at the human 
level, cooperative teams have the potential to outcompete isolated 
individuals acting alone. 
For example, cooperatives can take advantage of the adaptive 
benefits that can flow from divisions of labour, synergies, specialisation, 
and other forms of differentiation. Furthermore, the larger the scale of a 
cooperative, the greater its command over resources and the greater its 
power in interactions with others and with its environment.  
Provided evolution finds a way to overcome cooperation barriers, 
cooperators will inherit the Earth. 
I was beginning to see the answers to one of the key challenges I 
had set myself in my evolutionary thinking: to identify the causal 
mechanisms that drove the trajectory of evolution towards the increasing 
integration of living processes, as identified by Teilhard de Chardin. The 
answers that I stumbled upon also provided an understanding of why 
living processes are organised the way they are. These realizations 
eventually produced a general theory of living organisation. This general 

 
Back to Fishing  
 
109 
 
theory could explain the dynamical architecture that characterises living 
organisation, and why it emerged in the form it did. 
However, my time as a fisheries manager also helped me to 
achieve some goals that I had formed much earlier in my life. As I 
indicated earlier, when I finished year 12 as a 16-year-old and thought 
about what course I would do at university, I decided on Marine Biology 
and Zoology. In my simple-minded naivety, I thought that if I had the 
misfortune to have to work for a living, those career choices would give 
me as much time as possible to go fishing. When I became a fisheries 
manager whose responsibilities extended to the tropics of far northern 
Australia, this early dream seemed well on the way to being fulfilled. 
Any time I wanted to escape the inland cold of a Canberra winter, I 
could organise a meeting that would take me to the tropics of Cairns, the 
Torres Strait, or PNG.  
The high point of living this dream came when our PNG fisheries 
counterparts organised a meeting on Loloata, a tiny coral island that lies 
off the PNG coast near Port Moresby. We convened our meeting in an 
open-sided building with a thatched roof that was next to the island's 
jetty. Before the meeting, I caught a 12-inch pike that I cast out as a live 
bait under a float. We began the meeting on the basis that when the 
sound of my reel's ratchet indicated that the bait had been taken, the 
meeting would be adjourned while I played whatever fish had taken the 
bait. 
I could not imagine it getting any better than that. 
However, given my commitment to evolutionary theorizing, the 
price of continuing as a fisheries manager in the long term was too high. 
To do the job properly, I had to work long hours. In order to ensure that 
appropriate management was put in place for each of my fisheries, I had 
to spend a lot of time manipulating the disparate interests. I was not 
prepared to settle for anything less than doing the best that I could, 
irrespective of the demands it placed on my time. Eventually, I came to 
the conclusion that, like teaching and union work, staying in the job long 
term would not give me sufficient time to do my evolutionary work. 
As I began to realize that continuing to work as a fisheries 
manager would not give me the spare time I needed, I looked for 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
110 
 
alternatives that would. Initially, this sent me down a path that seemed to 
bear little relationship to my evolutionary work. I set out to invent and 
patent a new kind of fishing lure. However, what initially looked like a 
rather desperate detour, produced an important development in my 
cognitive capacity. Again, my development was propelled by pressing 
necessity. 
Over the years, I had noticed a fundamental limitation in the 
types of fishing lures that were available. What Americans call 
crankbaits are arguably the most effective fishing lures yet developed. 
These are hard-bodied, baitfish-imitating lures that wobble strongly 
when retrieved through the water. However, they were effective only if 
they could be put in front of fish. But this is where they often fell short 
in practice. The problem was that if they were combined with sufficient 
weight to enable them to be cast long distances or to be fished in deep 
water, it would kill their action. The extra weight would seriously 
dampen their capacity to wobble. 
So, when I was looking for a way to earn enough money to fund 
my theorizing and writing, I thought that I should invent a new class of 
fishing lures that overcame these limitations. Eventually, I was 
successful. I found a way to integrate weight with a wobbling crankbait 
in such a fashion that the wobbling was preserved and, in some cases, 
actually enhanced. 
I made some prototypes, and they worked well. Then, to ensure 
that I could make money from the invention, I had to patent it. 
Otherwise, it could be copied freely. I applied for international patents 
and proceeded first with getting a US patent, given that the US is the 
largest market for fishing lures. 
The trick in drafting a patent application is defining the invention 
in such a comprehensive fashion that it is impossible for manufacturers 
to get around the patent. The goal is to ensure that all possible 
worthwhile instantiations of the invention are covered by the patent. 
Working out how to do this required me to envisage all possible 
ways to construct my invention. I needed to form a mental model in my 
head, and then vary the model by changing key components of the lure 
in order to identify all the ways in which it could be realized effectively. 

 
Back to Fishing  
 
111 
 
At first, I was not very good at this. I had many years of 
experience building and playing with abstract mental models in my 
head. Abstract thinking was my bread and butter. But here, I needed to 
build concrete mental models. I had very little practice in doing this. As 
a young boy, I had next to no interest in playing with mechanical objects 
or making anything concrete. This was where my brother excelled. As 
my parents put it, he was 'good with his hands', while I was 'good with 
my head'. 
I found that my attempts to build concrete mental models and be 
aware of my mental processes when doing so, were similar to when I 
first began to try to become aware of my abstract, problem-solving 
techniques in year 11 at school. I looked inside to see my mental 
processes, but initially I could not see much at all. 
I remember when the breakthrough in my concrete thinking 
occurred. I was on a plane flying from Sydney to Norfolk Island to 
consult with the Islanders about establishing the first offshore fisheries 
management arrangements for the Island. Suddenly, I could see 
complete instantiations of my fishing lure in my mind. I could change 
particular components in the design and morph them into different 
forms. I was able to observe the effects of these changes on the 
functioning of the lure. 
I completed the patent applications. The patent was granted after 
I negotiated a few amendments with the US Patent Office. 
The good news ended there. I made several prototypes and sent 
them to major fishing lure manufacturers. When the Internet became 
available, I created a web page to promote the lure. I sent a prototype to 
Vic McCristal, Australia's foremost fishing writer. He got its 
significance. Vic described the lure as a complete breakthrough in 
fishing lure design and wrote about it in one of his articles. 
But Vic was the only one. I reached the point where the time I 
spent searching for a manufacturer seriously restricted the time I could 
devote to my evolutionary work. I decided not to proceed further. 
However, as now seems common when I look back at my life, 
the challenges that I encountered with the fishing lure had important 
unforeseen consequences for my development. I now had the ability to 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
112 
 
build, test and recursively improve concrete constructions in my head. 
Up to that point, I had never been a handyman. But now, I was able to 
save a lot of money by designing and building fences, gates, and other 
structures for our new home in Canberra. But more importantly for me, 
it broadened my ability to build and to recursively improve mental 
models for my evolutionary thinking.

 
113 
 
11. 
 
 
 
Pretending to Work for the Government 
 
After three years as a fisheries manager, I applied for and got a policy 
development job back in the Department of Industrial Relations. As a 
class 11 Section Head, I had my own office and four or five staff. The 
work was not very stressful or demanding. Most of the time, I found that 
I could easily complete the relevant tasks well within the minimum 
number of hours required for attendance each week. 
Nevertheless, as a perfectionist, I still tried to ensure that the 
issues I worked on were handled fairly and effectively. However, as a 
bureaucrat behind a desk in Canberra working on high-level industrial 
relations policy issues, I was largely insulated from the impacts of the 
policies I helped develop. 
This was quite different from my previous work in fisheries 
management, teaching, and unions. If, due to the incompetence of the 
system or of individuals, I could not ensure that appropriate industrial 
relations policies were adopted, I did not have to face those who suffered 
the consequences. Bad industrial relations policies could do far more 
harm than poor fisheries management or teaching. But I used to tell 
people that high-level policy development was much less stressful than 
my previous work. It was more like dropping atomic bombs on 
Hiroshima. You did not have to experience first-hand the harm it caused. 
The pressure I put on myself to make tangible progress with my 
evolutionary thinking intensified as the years passed. It was 1990, and I 
was fast approaching 40 when I recommenced working in the 
Department of Industrial Relations. My reading and thinking were 
progressing significantly, but I had not yet developed anything that 
could be published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
114 
 
To further enhance my capacity for 'big picture' thinking, I 
decided to begin practicing a form of meditation. My reading had 
suggested that meditation could be particularly useful for promoting 
creative thinking. I was also attracted to the possibility that meditation 
could help to further disrupt my analytical/rational cognition and, at the 
same time, give me greater access to intuitive forms of knowing. Both 
are important for enabling 'big picture' thinking. 
I also thought that meditation might be able to enhance further 
my ability to see my own thinking as object. The capacity to examine 
my own thinking was central to my work on recursively improving my 
cognitive abilities. It enabled me to see where my current thinking was 
inadequate and to improve it intentionally. The efforts that I had made 
since I was in school to recursively improve my thinking had helped me 
to become aware of the thinking strategies that I was using and to see 
how they might be enhanced. However, I hoped that meditation could 
further develop this capacity, particularly in relation to thinking about 
complex phenomena. 
Finally, as I mentioned earlier, I had used the Gurdjieffian 
technique of self-observation to some extent to free myself from 
cravings for cigarettes and overeating. As I read more widely, I learned 
that self-observation was very similar to the meditative practice of 
mindfulness. This was useful because practices for achieving 
mindfulness were far more widely known and accessible than 
Gurdjieff's techniques. 
I should emphasise that I did not take up meditation for the 
purpose of 'spiritual development'. Instead, I was solely interested in 
exploring its potential to enhance my capacity to be effective in this 
world, in the midst of ordinary life. I did not have a spiritual bone in my 
body. 
I was attracted to Gurdjieff's philosophy because it seemed to 
advocate self-mastery, and talked about some tools for achieving this. It 
was focused on developing capacities that would enable me to be more 
effective in achieving my goals. In particular, a central aim of his 
practices was to 'wake up' in the midst of ordinary life. Gurdjieff's 
approach was not interested in meditation that was confined to the 

 
Pretending to Work for the Government 
 
 
115 
 
meditation cushion, and that explored different states of consciousness 
primarily on the cushion. It certainly was not directed at withdrawal 
from the world. Rather, his practices aimed to achieve states of 
consciousness that could increase one's effectiveness and agency in life. 
Sometimes the Gurdjieffian approach has been referred to as a 
'left-hand path'. It contrasts with 'right-hand paths' that encompass 
traditional spiritual approaches. The goal of right-hand paths is 
'absorption in the absolute', and their maxim is 'thy will be done'. The 
goal of left-hand paths is 'self-mastery', and their maxim is 'my will be 
done'. 
I read widely in the spiritual literature, including the work of 
great synthesisers like Ken Wilber. But my primary goal was always to 
collect techniques and practices that could be adapted to achieve self-
mastery and enhanced agency in this world. However, the overwhelming 
majority of material and practices that I found related to the right-hand 
path.  
But again, necessity was the mother of invention. I set out to 
develop an understanding of the principles that underlay the practices of 
the great contemplative and spiritual traditions. My goal was to develop 
comprehensive models that explained how the practices worked. Once I 
had achieved this sufficiently, I could then use these models to explore 
how the practices could be modified and enhanced. 
In particular, I intended to use the models to search for 
modifications that would enhance their ability to produce self-mastery 
rather than only transcendence. Of course, this task of building meta-
models of meditation, mindfulness, self-observation, and awakening 
fitted perfectly my central interest in recursive self-improvement and its 
role in the future evolution of humanity. 
I was used to building mental models of my own mental 
processes. As I have described, I did so to identify modifications to my 
thought processes that would enhance my thinking and problem-solving. 
This general approach is broadly analogous to how science has driven 
technological development. 
First, science develops a model of particular natural processes. 
These models can then be used to predict what happens when 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
116 
 
components in the model are changed. This enables models to identify 
changes and interventions in the real world that will produce outcomes 
that better serve particular human needs. These changes can include the 
making of tools and, eventually, machines. They provide the foundations 
for technological advancement. 
In effect, I was setting out to technologize the practices and 
methods of spiritual development. The goal was to develop psycho-
technologies that could produce self-mastery, including by enhancing 
human cognition. 
The capacity for an individual to be 'non-attached' to thoughts 
provides a concrete example of this technologizing process. Several of 
the spiritual traditions teach meditation-like practices that are claimed to 
assist an individual to become 'non-attached' or 'dis-identified' from 
thoughts that arise in their minds. These practices include mindfulness 
and also methods that involve the individual surrendering to whatever 
arises in the moment (surrender may be facilitated by, for example, a 
belief that if one hands over control of one's life to Jesus, one will be 
happier and more content here as well as in an after-life). 
In general, these practices seem to work successfully. 
Significantly, however, they work irrespective of the supernatural or 
mystical explanations given by any particular tradition to explain why 
their practices are effective. 
The strategy I am outlining here is to develop a scientific 
understanding of why the practices developed by the traditions can be 
effective. In the specific case I am exploring, the goal is to develop 
scientific models that explain how particular practices enable individuals 
to dis-identify from their thinking. Once these specific explanatory 
models have been developed, they can then be used to develop various 
forms of self-mastery. 
For example, they can be used to enable an individual to detach 
from debilitating worrying that could otherwise undermine their 
effectiveness in work and other activities. Once they can achieve non-
attachment to their thinking at will, they can then passively watch any 
worrying thoughts as they arise and then dissipate, without clinging to or 
worrying about them. With this capacity, a person can be as happy and 

 
Pretending to Work for the Government 
 
 
117 
 
un-troubled as a born-again Christian, but without having to surrender 
their life to Jesus. 
Practices that hitherto were explained by spiritual traditions as 
being the product of supernatural causes can then be shorn of these 
explanations. They can be replaced with scientific models that can be 
used to develop practices that are more effective. 
I began my meditation practice with a standard mindfulness 
approach. I would attempt to rest my attention continually on the 
sensations of my breathing. When I found my attention had moved back 
to thinking, I would gently return attention to my breath, and so on, 
repeatedly for 20 minutes. This practice would still my mind to some 
extent. However, I found that giving attention to the sensations of my 
breathing tended to disturb my mind, apparently due to the dynamic 
nature of breathing. 
So, I changed to a form of concentration meditation. I would rest 
my attention on the head of a small ornamental doll that was on a 
sideboard near where I sat. At times, I would do the same with a dot on 
the wall. Using a similar approach to the mindfulness practice, when I 
found that my attention had wandered, I would return it to the object of 
concentration, and so on, repeatedly. This approach seemed to 
strengthen my ability to notice more quickly whenever my attention had 
become re-embedded in thought, to disengage from this embeddedness, 
and to remain dis-embedded from thought for longer periods. 
Within about a week of starting concentration meditation, I 
found that after 15 or so minutes of the practice, my mind would cease 
to be disturbed, and I would enter a state in which I could rest attention 
more or less continually on the object of attention. It is difficult to 
convey the nature of this state in words, but it was as if the mind became 
solid and undisturbed. A friend describes it as 'the lake freezing over'. 
Another description that captures a central aspect of how I experience 
the state is a phrase I often heard when my parents took me to church 
when I was young: "The peace that passes all understanding." I have 
also heard it said aptly that entering this state is always surprising—it is 
so different from ordinary experience. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
118 
 
Of course, there is no sequence of words that I can write down 
here that will produce this state in you and enable you to experience it. 
However, if you do the necessary work on yourself to enter this state, 
you will know precisely what these various descriptors are attempting to 
point to. 
Initially, ensuring that I did the 20 minutes of practice each and 
every day was a challenge. Frequently, other activities intervened. The 
strategy that changed this was to get out of bed 20 minutes earlier than I 
did previously. This became a habit that always gave me the extra 
minutes every morning that I could use to meditate. I also found that it 
was easy and productive to perform additional meditation when I was on 
a plane flight, waiting for a doctor's appointment, eating at a food court, 
on my lunch break, waiting for public transport, and so on. 
Meditation in public places also seemed to be consistent with my 
goal of awakening in the midst of ordinary life, rather than just on the 
meditation cushion. One of the key reasons for meditating alone in a 
quiet, darkened room is to avoid distractions that might otherwise 
capture your attention and disrupt the concentration that leads to the 
stilling of the mind. In the midst of ordinary life, potential distractions 
are legion. To awaken in ordinary life, it therefore seemed necessary to 
progressively strengthen the capacity to stay in a meditative state in the 
face of distractions. 
Furthermore, it seemed to me that I should also progressively 
develop the ability to meditate with my eyes open. Again, I hoped that 
this would strengthen my ability to achieve meditative-like states when I 
was out and about in the world, despite all the distractions. 
However, despite extensive searching, I could not find specific 
practices designed to facilitate the transition from the meditation cushion 
to awakening in the midst of ordinary life. Gurdjieff had specifically 
advocated this, but as far as I could determine, his writings do not set out 
in detail particular practices that would scaffold this transition. 
In general, spiritual traditions have not even established this 
transition as a major goal, let alone developed practices to facilitate it. 
They seem to have always been strongly attached to the right-hand path. 

 
Pretending to Work for the Government 
 
 
119 
 
Nevertheless, for many years I persevered with the form of 
meditation practice that I have outlined. I cannot be certain that it 
actually enhanced my evolutionary thinking. At the time, there were too 
many variables to assess what changes caused particular outcomes. 
However, at the beginning of the 1990s, while working in the 
Department of Industrial Relations, I began to make progress in my 'big 
picture' evolutionary thinking. My meditation practice might have 
helped with this and enabled me to deal with work and family pressures 
with greater equanimity. But in any event, it became an enjoyable habit, 
and I continued. 
As had become increasingly evident throughout my life, 
challenging work demands tended to propel my further development. In 
1991, I was installed as the acting head of the Employment Conditions 
Policy Branch in which I worked. This position was at Senior Executive 
Level One in the Australian Public Service and put me in charge of four 
Sections, including the one I previously headed. I was appointed 
temporarily but indefinitely, with the expectation that I would eventually 
be appointed permanently, if all went well. 
But for me, it did not go well. I had been making progress with 
my evolutionary thinking, but this stopped as I began working long 
hours as a Branch Head. Previously, I was responsible for the work of 
one section, and now there were four. Furthermore, I soon discovered 
that I could not rely on any of the four Section Heads to produce work at 
a level that I considered to be competent. As a Section Head, I found 
that I could easily work around the lack of competence of my staff. I 
could quickly rewrite the Ministerial briefs that they produced. In order 
to minimize the rewriting required, I could even dictate the intellectual 
content of briefs to them in detail so that they did not have to think 
deeply or originally about the relevant issues. 
But as a Branch Head, I could not do this easily within normal 
working hours for four Sections. And none of the Section Heads were up 
to my standard. At first, this greatly surprised me. I began to realize that 
this was not because my section Heads were exceptionally bad. Rather, 
it was because I did not have much experience of other people's ability 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
120 
 
to do challenging and intellectually demanding work. In general, I just 
assumed that most people could do what I did. 
For most of my working life, I had not been in charge of high-
level staff. In my work for unions, I had generally got myself into a 
position where I was essentially a one-man band. I tended to lead others, 
whether they were working for my union or other unions. I would 
develop strategies, and they were happy to follow my plans. 
Even at school, although I did much better at exams than nearly 
everyone else, I did not think much about why this was so. When I did, I 
thought that it was not due to any fundamental difference in the level of 
ability between myself and others. I tended just to assume that others 
could do what I did if they put their mind to it. I did not believe that I 
was exceptional in any sense. When others in school, university, or work 
treated me as if I were, I would quickly brush it off as them being nice. 
It never sunk in. If anything, I felt embarrassed being singled out. Being 
smart was not something I cared about or valued. 
In the few years I spent as a Section Head in fisheries 
management and policy development, I thought it was just bad luck that 
the staff I inherited were often not very competent. It was not until I 
became a Branch Head that I realized that very few people had the 
intellectual capacity to do high-quality policy development work or to 
strategize effectively in complex circumstances. 
I realized quickly that if I were to do the Branch Head job to 
anywhere near my standards, I would have to work long hours on 
intellectually demanding tasks. This would seriously impede my ability 
to spend 'quality time' on my evolutionary theorizing. And I did not 
need the extra money. I had always made sure that I could afford my 
housing mortgage repayments even if my income dropped significantly. 
After four or so months in the position, I told my superiors that 
the Branch Head level was beyond my capabilities and did not suit my 
personality. I asked to be returned to the Section Head level. 
This greatly surprised my superiors. In their view, I was doing 
the job extremely well. And it was very rare that a person rejected 
promotion to the Branch Head level and the substantial increase in salary 

 
Pretending to Work for the Government 
 
 
121 
 
and provision of a car that went with it. For many public servants, 
getting there was their lifetime ambition. 
But they had no choice but to return me to the Section Head level 
and bring in someone from elsewhere to fill the Branch Head position. 
In the short term, the person they appointed was an unfortunate 
choice for me. He was a leading example of the kind of person who was 
increasingly getting Senior Executive Service jobs. My new boss was a 
compulsive 'can do' man. If the Minister or his other superiors gave any 
hint that they might want something, he would promise to deliver it 
urgently. This was despite the fact that often his superiors had not 
thought through the issue, nor undertaken any kind of cost/benefit 
analysis of whether it was worth the resources, nor made any assessment 
of how long it would take, and so on. 
They would say "jump", and he would always say "how high?" 
He would return to his Sections, tell them what had to be done, and set a 
tight deadline. It was not negotiable or subject to reality-testing. No 
discussion was permitted. Worse still, sometimes projects that he had 
instructed us to treat as high priority would be dropped by his superiors 
after a few days, and he would forget to tell us as we continued to slave 
away. 
So I had jumped from the frying pan into the fire. My new 
Branch Head used his staff like a World War 1 General. He would order 
his troops out of the trenches to charge the enemy lines, unprotected in 
the face of withering fire. And if his staff and his strategy failed, he 
would blame it on his staff. 
By this time, I had begun to make real progress in my 
evolutionary theorizing. Having my Branch Head continually get in the 
way of further progress was a major source of frustration. But in the 
longer term, this proved to be the best thing that could have happened to 
me at the time. 
Up until these events, I took responsibility for whatever my job 
required. I did what I could to fulfil the requirements, without question. 
This did not mean that I did what I was told by my superiors. When they 
gave me instructions that conflicted with the wider responsibilities of my 
work, I tried to convince them that alternative action should be taken. I 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
122 
 
would manipulate my superiors and those I interacted with to ensure that 
the wider responsibilities of my job were achieved to the maximum. My 
overriding goal in my work was to achieve the objectives of my job as I 
understood them, not as my superiors understood them, particularly if 
my superiors were incompetent. First and foremost, I was loyal to the 
responsibilities of whatever job I was being paid to do. 
I consciously and intentionally dropped this loyalty in 1992. I 
never picked it up again. 
This was due to the development of my evolutionary thinking as 
well as to the conflicts between it and work demands. As my 'big 
picture' thinking had progressed, I saw that there was no moral force 
behind our society's requirements in relation to paid work. The basic 
requirement was that in order to get sufficient money to sustain yourself 
and family, you had to sell control over your consciousness and your 
being for at least 40 hours a week. 
Nothing in our current legal and economic systems guarantees 
that you will be able to spend these 40 hours using your talents in 
whatever way benefits society the most. It was clear to me that by far the 
best way I could contribute to society was by developing new theories of 
evolution. In the coming pages, I will substantiate this claim in detail. 
However, our current social and economic systems did not give me the 
opportunity to earn a living doing this. I could not find any possibilities 
in academia or elsewhere that would enable me to do so. 
Our economic system currently offers enormous rewards for 
anyone who, for example, develops a better-tasting ice cream, a 
computer game that totally absorbs the attention of players for hours on 
end, or a more effective weapon for killing people. But it offers no 
immediate rewards for someone who spends years developing a new 
'big picture' theory of evolution that can help guide humanity to 
reorganise our societies and our psychological processes in ways that 
benefit us all. 
Increasingly, I realized that I had no moral obligation to spend 
my life performing work that wastes my talents and fails to make the 
best use of my abilities. For someone like me, work steals my 
consciousness and fritters it away on trivialities. This conclusion was 

 
Pretending to Work for the Government 
 
 
123 
 
valid whether my superiors were competent or not. But I was propelled 
to it much more quickly by incompetent superiors who wasted my 
potential to perform useful work even in industrial relations policy 
development. 
In 1992, I decided that henceforth, my overriding goal in my paid 
work was no longer to fulfill the responsibilities of the job. Instead, it 
was the same as my central objective outside work: to develop a new 
theory of evolution and to identify its implications for humanity, both 
individually and collectively. This led me to the decision to manipulate 
my superiors, those around me, and the system in which I was embedded 
to ensure that I would have enough time to devote to my evolutionary 
theorizing. 
I no longer just accepted that my superiors could require me to 
do whatever work they decided. Now, I used my strategizing abilities 
and persuasive capacities to control the kind and amount of work I was 
given. 
This did not mean that I was always avoiding work. For example, 
I would willingly take on projects where I could control what was done. 
I would happily volunteer for major projects where I would be the only 
person who knew fully what was being done, what meetings with 
employer and union representatives should be arranged, how long 
meetings would take, when interstate travel was needed, and so on. 
In particular, I manipulated circumstances so that I became 
responsible for a number of major test cases that were conducted by 
State and Commonwealth arbitration tribunals. In these cases, I took 
responsibility for drafting the Government's submissions and for 
presenting them to the tribunal hearings as the Government's advocate. 
These cases could take more than 6 months of intensive work, and as the 
only person in the Department who knew in detail what was required, I 
was well-positioned to control what my superiors expected me to do. 
For well over a decade, I travelled around Australia representing 
the Government in negotiations with unions and employer groups and as 
the Government's advocate in significant cases before industrial 
tribunals. I would confidently and articulately put forward the 
Government's position on the relevant issues. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
124 
 
Generally, my Section and I wrote the submissions that I put to 
the industrial tribunals. But often, I did not get the details approved by 
my Departmental superiors or by the Minister's Office, which had 
ultimate responsibility (and power). To do so would have multiplied 
considerably the amount of work that had to be done. The chain of 
command above me would have been unable to resist the temptation to 
require significant rewrites, commission additional research, include 
further arguments, and so on. Generally, all this additional work would 
have detracted from the quality and effectiveness of the submissions. 
None of my superiors or the Minister's office had the experience or 
intellectual capacity to improve my submissions.  
Often, I was able to avoid getting specific approval for the details 
by giving my Departmental superiors the impression that the details had 
already been approved by the Minister's Office or by other Departments 
that were involved. I would often give the impression to the Minister's 
Office that the detail had already been approved by the Departmental 
hierarchy or by the staff of other Ministers who were involved. 
I knew that I was taking a risk. But I judged that I could get away 
easily with being caught out at least once. If this happened, I planned to 
say that I thought that I was operating within the bounds of existing 
policy positions that were already well-established and that reflected the 
Government's position in detail. I planned to then apologise profusely 
and abjectly. I knew that I could get away with this the first time without 
disciplinary action. From then on, I would have to get all the appropriate 
clearances. However, it never happened a first time.  
But this did not mean at all that I would refuse to do work that I 
was given. Or that I would do poorly whatever work I could not avoid. I 
continued to perform at a very high level any work that I could not 
avoid. 
In fact, given my extensive experience in all aspects of industrial 
relations and the years I had spent recursively improving my cognitive 
capacities, I did not do the work just a bit better than anyone else in the 
Department. Rather, I could achieve outcomes that were a quantum level 
above what anyone else could have. I could see things they could not. In 

 
Pretending to Work for the Government 
 
 
125 
 
the part-time hours I devoted to my paid work, I could do what others 
could never do, no matter how much time they spent working. 
This is reflected in the fact that in my annual performance 
reviews, I was generally rated at the highest possible level (outstanding). 
Furthermore, for my efforts in 1999 in persuading a Full Bench of the 
Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to support the 
retention of Australia's system of junior rates of pay, the Minister Peter 
Reith thanked me in a speech to the Parliament for my efforts. Later, he 
rewarded me with a three-week trip to Geneva as one of the two 
Australian Government delegates to the International Labour 
Organisation Annual Conference in 2000.  
Shortly before I retired from paid work in 2007, the Head of the 
Department gave me his Outstanding Achievement Award in 
recognition of my work on the Redundancy Test Case that was 
conducted by a Full Bench of the Australian Commission. 
Nevertheless, after this fundamental transition in my approach to 
paid work in 1992, I used to say that although I was employed by the 
Government, I did not work for it. Instead, I worked for myself and my 
evolutionary goals. After 1992, I only worked for the Government part-
time, although they continued to pay me full-time. 
Ultimately, however, I knew that my evolutionary work would 
make a much greater contribution to humanity (including to the 
Australian taxpayer), than anything I could ever do in my paid 
employment. 
 
 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
126 
 
 
 

 
127 
 
12. 
 
 
 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
From 1992 onwards, my evolutionary work progressed rapidly. 
I still remember a breakthrough that occurred with a rush of vivid 
images and insights. I saw in an instant how key issues that I had 
wrestled with for many years could be resolved. At the time, I was 
standing in the family room of our home in Canberra. It was a very cold 
morning in mid-winter, but the sky was cloudless blue, and the sun was 
streaming in through the north-facing windows. The floor-to-ceiling 
windows had been designed to capture the light and warmth of the sun 
as it moved northward and lower with the onset of winter. 
Of course, this rush of insights did not come out of nowhere. For 
years, I had put a lot of hard intellectual work into developing mental 
models of various 'big picture' evolutionary processes. I had many 
specific insights into the nature and operation of these processes. But 
what my epiphanous experience provided was the sudden ability to see 
commonalities in the deeper, dynamical structures that underlay these 
phenomena. In an instant, I realized that processes and systems that I 
had previously seen as separate were united at a higher level of 
abstraction and shared common dynamical architectures. In a rush, I 
suddenly became aware of connections and unifying insights that I had 
not seen before. 
In particular, the flash of insights produced the realization that 
two important forms of organisation were identical, even though they 
differed enormously in scale. From a very abstract perspective, I saw 
that a planetary society managed by a global system of governance had 
the exact same organisational architecture as a single cell managed by 
the cell's genetic apparatus. As above, so below. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
128 
 
This central realization was accompanied by several insights. 
Foremost amongst these was that both global governance and the genetic 
apparatus performed the same functions within their respective 
organisations: they both used their power to support cooperation and to 
deter free-riding that would otherwise undermine cooperation. Both 
managed/governed societies: the global system was a self-producing 
society of humans, technology, and other living processes; the cell was a 
complex society of self-producing molecular processes and 
technologies. 
I saw immediately that these common dynamical architectures 
arose in both cases to solve exactly the same kind of evolutionary 
challenge. Furthermore, I realized that this understanding enabled me to 
identify the key mechanisms missing from Teilhard de Chardin's 
hypothesis that evolution embodied a trajectory toward increasing 
integration. As I have mentioned, Teilhard had failed to demonstrate 
how complex cooperation evolved. 
Up until this time, evolutionary science had done a very thorough 
job of demonstrating how difficult it was for cooperation to emerge, no 
matter how beneficial the cooperation might be. It was not that there was 
any doubt that if cooperation could emerge and persist, it could be 
favoured by natural selection. 
It is obvious at the human level that organised cooperative 
groups generally have the potential to outcompete isolated individuals 
who act alone. It is equally obvious that once the evolutionary process 
discovers a way to reproduce cooperative organisation, it can flourish 
and prevail over non-cooperators. The emergence of multicellular 
organisms from single cells, and their subsequent differentiation into 
many forms that spread across the planet, is a powerful example of the 
potential adaptive benefits of cooperation. 
As I have mentioned previously, the fundamental reason why the 
evolution of cooperation tends to be impeded is easy to see: a 
cooperative organism invests some of its resources in cooperating with 
others, rather than using those resources for its own needs (for example, 
an organism might share food with others when it has some, but the 

 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
 
129 
 
others have little. This kind of behaviour might be very valuable to those 
who get the shared food, who might otherwise perish). 
However, if cooperators invest some of their resources in helping 
others, they will end up worse off than non-cooperators. In contrast, 
organisms that do not cooperate will refrain from investing any of their 
resources in cooperating with others, but will accept resources from 
cooperators (in this example, an organism that never shares its food 
cooperatively with others will do better than those that do, because it 
will retain its food and also get the benefit of food shared by 
cooperators).  
In short, cooperators will not emerge and persist unless they 
capture sufficient of the benefits of the cooperation that they produce. 
These difficulties were a major problem for evolutionary science. 
First, there was a strong demand for theories that could plausibly explain 
the many cases of cooperative behaviour found in nature. There was an 
obvious need to account for the cooperation found within, for example, 
ant colonies, baboon troops, and human tribes. An even greater 
challenge was to explain the numerous cases where very complex 
cooperative organisations had emerged in what came to be known as 
major evolutionary transitions (e.g., the emergence of complex 
eukaryote cells from cooperative communities of simple cells; of 
multicellular organisms from groups of eukaryote cells; and of 
hierarchical human societies from tribes).  
Second, there was a large market both within evolutionary 
science and beyond for an evolutionary narrative that emphasised the 
benefits of cooperation, at least to some extent. Few wanted a story that 
suggested that evolution always favours those who relentlessly pursue 
their own immediate interests, including at the expense of others. 
As a result of these demands, evolution science is littered with 
failed attempts to develop theories that attempt to explain the diversity 
of cooperation found in nature. 
Early on, group selection was proposed as the main contender. 
The basic idea was that cooperative groups could outcompete groups 
that did not contain cooperators. Because this model predicted that 
evolution could favour cooperation in particular circumstances, and 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
130 
 
because many hoped that this reflected how the world was organised, 
group selection theory was not subject to strong criticism for some time. 
But in the latter half of the 1960s, group selection was rejected 
emphatically for a reason that looks obvious in retrospect. Within a 
cooperative group, any non-cooperators that received the benefits of 
cooperation but did not contribute to the group cooperatively, would be 
favoured by natural selection within the group. These free-riders would 
outcompete cooperators and undermine cooperation within the group. 
Within a group, cooperators would tend to be selected out of existence. 
This criticism of group selection was considered a knock-out 
punch for some while. Other explanations for the emergence of 
cooperation were developed, but they had limited applicability. They 
failed to account for the complex cooperative organisation that arises in 
the major cooperative evolutionary transitions. 
These limited explanations include kin selection theory. It argued 
that the genes that predisposed an organism to cooperate could prevail 
by preferentially directing the cooperation towards relatives. This was 
because relatives were more likely to also carry the cooperator gene, and 
less likely to carry non-cooperator genes. As a result, where kin 
selection operated effectively, cooperator genes were more likely to 
capture the effects of beneficial cooperation, and non-cooperator genes 
were less likely to be the beneficiaries of cooperation. 
A further example of a theory of the evolution of cooperation 
that seemed plausible but only in limited circumstances was reciprocal 
altruism. This mechanism was based on the notion that cooperators who 
cooperated only with other individuals who also cooperated (e.g., 
reciprocators), could capture sufficient of the benefits of cooperation, 
and exclude non-cooperators from the benefits. 
A large academic industry grew up around the development of 
mathematical models of these and other mechanisms. Game-theoretic 
models were particularly popular. Modellers searched far and wide for 
particular circumstances in which cooperators and pro-social behaviour 
would flourish, at least in their models. This work tended to produce 
rigorous mathematical analyses of circumstances that bore little 
relationship to complex reality. Journals that published papers on 

 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
 
131 
 
evolutionary theory were filled with these kinds of junk papers that were 
soon forgotten. 
In general, the only valuable outcome achieved by this 
considerable investment in research was to demonstrate how difficult it 
is for complex cooperation to be favoured by evolution. 
However, it was not long before group selection made a 
comeback. Mathematical models suggested that in specific, limited 
circumstances, selection that operated at the level of competition 
between groups could prevail over selection that operated on individuals 
within groups. These models were based on the earlier idea that a group 
of cooperators could outcompete groups with no cooperators due to the 
adaptive benefits of cooperation. 
However, the new models went on to suggest that this advantage 
at the group level could be sufficiently strong to overcome the 
disadvantage suffered by cooperators within groups (as we have 
discussed, cooperators tend to be outcompeted by free-riding non-
cooperators within groups). The boost that cooperators would get when 
they were in a group of other cooperators could be strong enough to 
outweigh the disadvantage they suffered within groups. I will refer to 
this as Wilsonian group selection for reasons that will soon become 
clear. 
Since the rebirth of group selection, it has gained acceptance 
among many evolutionary scientists. It is seen as capable of explaining 
the examples of cooperation observed in nature, including the complex 
cooperation that manifests in major evolutionary transitions. The leading 
proponent of this rehabilitation and subsequent ascendancy of group 
selection is America's foremost evolutionary scientist, David Sloan 
Wilson. 
However, it seems to have been largely forgotten that current 
group selection models have only explained cooperation in very limited 
circumstances. In part, this collective amnesia seems to be due to the 
demand for positive evolutionary stories that support pro-social values. 
Certainly, David Sloan Wilson's recent books seem to cater to this 
market intentionally. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
132 
 
However, perhaps a better explanation is that no plausible 
alternative has yet attracted widespread support. No other theory has yet 
been accepted as explaining the extensive existence of cooperation in 
nature, particularly in complex forms such as in the major transitions. 
This is despite widespread acceptance that cooperation has the potential 
to be selectively advantageous once it can arise in a stable form. The 
frequent existence of complex cooperation in animals and humans 
suggests that an evolutionary mechanism that produces cooperation must 
exist. In these circumstances, if there is only one theory that appears to 
be even somewhat credible, it is highly likely to be taken to be a valid 
explanation. Hand-waving and wishful thinking can go a long way when 
circumstances demand an explanation and no viable alternative exists. 
The only theory that is at least partly plausible tends to be taken as the 
explanation. 
The limitations of the group selection mechanism are most 
obvious at the level of human societies and human organisations. 
Examples at the human level are particularly useful because we have a 
lot of direct experience as participants in these kinds of cooperative 
groups. This provides us with an intuitive understanding of their 
structure and functioning. 
For this reason, I will sketch some examples at the human level 
that illustrate the limitations of group selection and that also identify the 
form of organisation that enables the emergence of complex 
cooperation. I will go on to show how this form of organisation not only 
provides a solution to the cooperation problem at the human level, but 
also provides the mechanism that overcame the cooperation problem at 
the molecular level, enabling the emergence of life itself. 
This mechanism subsequently enabled all further major 
cooperative evolutionary transitions. As such, it is the mechanism that I 
saw in a flash of insight in my family room in Canberra one sunny 
winter's morning. It is capable of organising complex cooperation 
within a cell and also within a global society. For reasons that will 
become obvious, I refer to the set of ideas and models that explain this 
mechanism as Evolutionary Management Theory. 

 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
 
133 
 
For my first example, I will consider the architecture of the form 
of social organisation that constitutes a typical modern Western 
democracy. A central feature of such a society is a government that has 
the power to establish laws and institutions that define certain classes of 
behaviour as illegal. The government also has the power to establish a 
legal system, a police force, and related arrangements that enforce these 
laws. 
These systems of laws typically operate to ensure that much 
behaviour that would otherwise undermine cooperation between citizens 
is punished and therefore not in the interests of citizens. These include 
laws that punish behaviour that would undermine a market economy. 
For example, the laws punish murder, theft, breaches of contracts, free-
riders who do not pay applicable taxes, and so on. 
The government also taxes citizens in order to fund activities that 
are generally claimed to benefit the society as a whole. For example, the 
government funds an education system, a defence force, its legislative 
and policing functions, and so on. 
In short, modern Western governments have the power to control 
and manage the society from which they emerge. Ideally, they use this 
power to punish citizens who act against the interests of the society, and 
to tax citizens in order to fund behaviours that contribute to furthering 
the interests of society. Ideally, this use of power by governments tends 
to align the interests of citizens (and of organisations of citizens, such as 
corporations) with the interests of the society as a whole.  
To the extent that the government achieves this, it will overcome 
the cooperation barrier. In principle, a government can overcome the 
barrier by rewarding those who cooperate and by punishing free-riders 
and cheaters who would otherwise undermine cooperation. The result is 
the complex cooperation that constitutes modern societies. 
Of course, numerous examples exist in which the power of 
governance is not used primarily to organise a cooperative society. The 
systemic architecture that I have identified is also found in totalitarian 
human societies, including those ruled by dictators. It also featured in 
earlier human societies governed by kings, emperors, and so on. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
134 
 
This same systemic architecture is also typically found in 
complex organisations within modern societies. For example, 
corporations are governed by a Board and CEO. They can use the 
payment of salaries and other incentives to make it in the interests of 
employees to cooperate in the interests of the corporation as a whole. 
They can also use their right to fire employees to punish those who act 
in ways that undermine the corporation's interests. 
In general, most complex human societies throughout human 
evolution have been organised by powerful external 
management/governance. Its powers to reward and punish tend to have 
been used to align the interests of the governed with the interests of the 
managers/governors. In these circumstances, when citizens pursue their 
own interests, they will tend to serve the interests of the 
managers/governors. 
When the interests of management are aligned with the interests 
of the society, management will tend to align the interests of the 
managed with those of the society. In these circumstances, when citizens 
pursue their own interests, they will tend to serve the interests of the 
society as a whole.  
What is common to all these societies is that the source of power 
and governance is external to the individuals who are managed. When 
we are members of such a society, we readily experience the governance 
as being external to us and other citizens. 
However, this systemic architecture does not explain all 
complex, cooperative human organisation. Early human tribal societies 
were not hierarchical. There was no external source of power that 
governed the members of the tribe, and that rewarded cooperation and 
punished free-riders. 
It is considerably more difficult to identify how it is that tribal 
societies are organised in such a way that cooperation between its 
members is enabled. As we shall see when we return to this issue below, 
it is also achieved by governance that acts across the tribe. But in this 
case the governance is internal to each member of the tribe, not external 
to them. There is no king or government or other powerful external 

 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
 
135 
 
ruler. Rather, the governance is internal to members of the tribe and 
distributed across them. 
Returning to the consideration of externally-managed societies, it 
is necessary to explain how such societies emerged in the first place. It is 
easy to see that once a society is organised by appropriate external 
management, cooperators can easily outcompete non-cooperators within 
the society. As a result, complex cooperation that is supported by 
management can emerge and persist indefinitely. It is equally clear that 
managed, cooperative societies have the potential to outcompete 
societies that are comprised of non-cooperators. But how do 
management architectures emerge and evolve? And why would a 
manager govern a group in such a way that promotes cooperation? How 
could this be in its evolutionary interests? 
Properly understood, the history of the transitions made by 
Mongols in the 12th and 13th centuries answers these questions. The 
Mongols began as a collection of tribes that often fought each other. 
From this, they eventually became the governors of China and other 
complex societies. 
Genghis Khan led Mongol tribes to rape and pillage other tribes 
and societies. Typically, his warriors would ruthlessly plunder food and 
other resources from the societies they defeated, often destroying them. 
Then, they would move on to repeat the process with other societies. 
And so on. 
However, the limitations of such a predatory strategy are that a 
complex society can only be raped and pillaged once in an extended 
period. Once its culture, governance, and infrastructure had been 
destroyed, it would be many years, if ever, before it could re-grow to 
have the complexity and wealth that it did before. 
Eventually, some Mongols found a viable alternative that had the 
potential to overcome these limitations: instead of raping and pillaging a 
society only once, they could govern the society indefinitely, allowing 
them to continually harvest a stream of resources from the society for 
their own use. This is similar to the trajectory followed by humans who 
moved from predating wild animals to domesticating them. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
136 
 
It was a short step from this to governing a society in such a way 
that increased substantially the stream of resources it could produce. 
As we have seen, this could be achieved by governing the society 
in a way that promotes cooperation and punishes free-riding, thieving, 
and cheating. For example, the Mongol governors could establish laws 
and enforcement systems that enabled members of the society to engage 
securely in economic exchanges. This, in turn, facilitated the emergence 
of a complex and productive economy of cooperative exchange 
relations. 'Good' governance had the potential to boost substantially the 
amount of wealth and other resources that the Mongol governors could 
continually extract from the society. 
Such a transition established a certain coincidence of interests 
between the Mongol governors and the society as a whole. Just as 
farmers have an interest in the welfare and productivity of the animals 
they manage, the Mongols had an interest in the productivity and 
welfare of the societies they managed. Driven only by their own 
immediate interests, the governors were incentivized to govern the 
society in ways that promoted effective cooperation within it. 
However, there were limits to this coincidence of interests: if the 
society had no competitors, the overlap of interests was not complete. 
The governors would be able to get away with over-exploiting the 
society. But to the extent that the society was in direct and on-going 
competition with other societies, this possibility was reduced. In a 
heavily competitive environment, the interests of the governors would 
tend to coincide more or less completely with those of the society they 
governed. Governors that over-exploited their society would weaken its 
ability to compete effectively with other societies, including in war. In 
these circumstances, the only way in which governors could protect and 
advance their own immediate interests was by advancing the interests of 
the society as a whole. 
Of course, human history is littered with examples in which 
centralized power has been abused. In general, this is often because the 
governance of human societies is not disciplined effectively by 
competition between societies. Competition is often insufficient to align 
the interests of management with the interests of the society as a whole. 

 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
 
137 
 
In the last few thousand years, this reduction in competitive 
pressures has resulted, to a significant extent, from the decline in the 
number of human societies. This has been driven by the increase in scale 
of successful societies in a finite environment. There are now fewer than 
200 Nations on Earth today. This trend will be complete if a global 
society emerges. It will not have any competitors on this planet. 
Because external, competition-induced constraints on the 
governors of modern societies have weakened, the development of 
internal mechanisms that constrain governors/management has become a 
major preoccupation within human societies. Democracy is a prime 
example of attempts to align the interests of governors/management with 
the interests of the society as a whole.  
For similar reasons, a major focus of my subsequent work on the 
future evolution of human societies has been about how 
governance/management could be constrained appropriately. This issue 
cannot be avoided. The institution of effective global governance is the 
only feasible way in which a unified, cooperative, and sustainable 
planetary society can be organised. Furthermore, such a society is 
essential if the existential threats that face humanity are to be overcome. 
Fortunately, an adequate understanding of the evolutionary functions of 
governance/management helps to identify how it can be constrained 
appropriately, and how the problems and dangers that have been 
associated in the past with centralized governance can be overcome.6 
It is also worth emphasising here that this account of the 
evolutionary emergence of the architecture of human societies relies on 
individuals acting only in their own immediate evolutionary interests. It 
does not require individuals to act altruistically. The predictions of 
Management Theory hold true even if managers/governors always act in 
their own evolutionary interests during all stages of the emergence of 
managed societies. The same applies to the members of a society: they 
are only expected to act cooperatively when the actions of a manager 
make it in their evolutionary interests to do so. In general, mainstream 
evolutionary science accepts that actions that are consistent with self-
 
6 Stewart (2018) - see References for full details 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
138 
 
interest in this way are favoured by evolutionary processes. Selection 
that operates at the level of the individual does not require any special, 
additional explanation. 
In contrast to Evolutionary Management Theory, Wilsonian 
group selectionism has not been able to explain the emergence of 
complex cooperative organisation by selection processes that act at the 
level of individuals. 
The core of Wilsonian group selection is that the disadvantage 
suffered by cooperators within a society can be overcome by the 
competitive advantage experienced by a society of cooperators, provided 
this advantage is sufficiently strong. However, it is obvious that 
complex, hierarchical human societies do not exhibit these 
characteristics of the dynamics of Wilsonian group selection. Within 
complex human societies, and within complex organisations within such 
societies, cooperators are manifestly not being continually outcompeted 
by free-riders or other non-cooperators. 
We all know this from our own direct experience. We know that 
within complex societies, cooperative behaviour that is in the interests of 
the society often tends to also be in the interests of cooperators. Rather 
than being out-competed by free-riders, cooperation tends to be 
supported by the governance of the society. And free-riding, theft, 
cheating, and other behaviour that undermines this cooperation tend to 
be punished. We can all point to some exceptions, but it is certainly not 
the case that, as proposed by Wilsonian group selection, cooperation is 
generally out-competed within societies except in limited cases (e.g., 
where kin selection or reciprocal altruism applies).  
Furthermore, Evolutionary Management Theory does not suffer 
from the deficiencies exhibited by attempts to extend Wilsonian group 
selection to explain the emergence of complex, cooperative organisation 
in major evolutionary transitions. These extensions to Wilsonian group 
selection were made because it was becoming increasingly accepted that 
the standard Wilsonian model could not account for these cooperative 
transitions. In most situations, group selection is not strong enough to 
outweigh the disadvantage suffered by complex cooperation within 
groups. 

 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
 
139 
 
Typically, these ad hoc extensions rely on the emergence of 
special mechanisms that reduce competition within groups. Wilson 
envisages that these mechanisms would dampen the disadvantages 
suffered by cooperators within groups. Consequently, where these 
mechanisms operate, cooperators can survive and thrive within groups, 
and selection between groups will favour groups with the most effective 
cooperation. Examples of these mechanisms at the human level that are 
given by Wilson and others include norms and institutions. 
However, extended Wilsonian group selection fails to explain 
convincingly how these competition-suppressing mechanisms would 
emerge in the first place. In particular, proponents of group selection 
have been unable to demonstrate that selection operating at the level of 
individuals can explain the emergence of these complex mechanisms. 
Given this failure, Wilsonian group selectionists are left with a 
major challenge—they have to demonstrate that the suppression 
mechanisms can be established by group selection. But this creates a 
serious problem for their extended theory: they begin by arguing that 
complex suppression mechanisms are essential if selection between 
groups is to be strong enough to establish complex cooperation. Then 
they must show how these complex suppression mechanisms can be 
established when no suitable suppression mechanisms are already in 
place. 
In contrast, Evolutionary Management Theory depends on 
individuals acting only in their own immediate evolutionary interests. It 
demonstrates that this is sufficient to explain the evolutionary emergence 
of complex cooperative societies that are organised by appropriate 
governance/management. 
The essence of the epiphanous realization that I had in my family 
room was that a system of global governance that manages a planetary 
civilization is functionally equivalent at an abstract level to the genetic 
apparatus that manages cells. I saw that a system of global governance 
had the potential to manage nation-states and other members of a global 
civilization in such a way that their interests were aligned with the 
interests of the civilization as a whole. Global governance would have 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
140 
 
the power to support cooperation and to punish free-riding and theft, 
particularly as it manifested as war between nation-states. 
This would be a repetition at a global scale of the process which 
produced the United States of America. Various States in North America 
that were previously independent were united by a system of Federal 
governance. This system of governance had the power to, for example, 
disarm states and make further war between them unthinkable. Both the 
United States of America and a unified, cooperative global society 
would have the same systemic architecture identified by Evolutionary 
Management Theory. 
In my epiphany, I also saw that the emergence of life in the form 
of the first proto-cells was made possible by the same kind of systemic 
architecture. It is generally accepted within evolutionary science that 
RNA-like molecules emerged in association with early life before DNA 
emerged. Evolutionary Management Theory envisages that RNA-like 
molecules and associated processes fulfilled the role of management in 
the emergence of the first simple cells. They developed the capacity to 
manage proto-metabolisms. 
Proto-metabolisms probably first arose as self-producing, 
autocatalytic sets of peptides (peptides are smaller versions of proteins). 
These proto-metabolisms reproduced through a process of collective 
autocatalysis. In this process, the formation of every member of the 
autocatalytic set of molecules is catalysed by at least one other member 
of the set. Consequently, the formation of every member of the set, and 
therefore the formation of the set as a whole, is boosted by catalysis. 
Such a set is self-producing and capable of persisting indefinitely 
given favourable conditions. However, a self-producing autocatalytic set 
does not qualify as life in a meaningful sense. This is because its ability 
to evolve complex functionality is extremely limited. 
The limited evolvability of autocatalytic sets is a consequence of 
the familiar cooperation barrier that impedes the emergence of complex 
cooperation at all levels of organisation of living processes. The 
existence of this limited evolvability is easily seen: imagine a peptide 
that, if it were a member of the set, would significantly improve the 
ability of the set to grow and persist. It might do this by catalysing a 

 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
 
141 
 
particular reaction that benefits the set as a whole. However, this 
cooperator peptide will not become a member of the set if its formation 
does not happen to be catalysed by an existing member of the set. There 
is no guarantee at all that this will be the case. It does not matter how 
beneficial the cooperator peptide would be for the survivability of the set 
as a whole. If it is not catalysed, it will not persist in the set. 
Furthermore, imagine a free-rider peptide whose formation is 
catalysed by members of the set, but which does not contribute anything 
to the set in return. For example, it might not catalyse the formation of 
any other member of the set. Instead, it may catalyse other side reactions 
that drain resources from the set, including resources that may be 
necessary for the formation of cooperator peptides. As a result, such 
free-riding peptides will tend to undermine the continued survivability of 
the set and the cooperative relationships that constitute it. 
RNA-like molecules possess the potential to enable an 
autocatalytic set to overcome this cooperation barrier. This is because 
RNA-like molecules themselves often have catalytic capacities. For 
example, they may have the ability to enhance the survivability of an 
autocatalytic set by catalysing the formation of cooperator peptides that 
can contribute positively to the set, but whose formation is not otherwise 
catalysed by the set itself. Furthermore, RNA-like molecules may have 
the ability to catalyse processes within the set that prevent free-riding 
peptides from persisting and draining resources from the set. 
RNA-like molecules have the potential to manage an 
autocatalytic set in this way because they are larger in scale, more stable 
and less reactive than the peptides they manage, and they can function 
and reproduce independently of the dynamic processes that reproduce 
the set. Often, this dynamical separation is achieved because the 
processes that constitute and reproduce management are larger in scale 
and unfold significantly more slowly than the processes that constitute 
and reproduce the set. The RNA-like molecules do not become just other 
members of the set, at the same level of organisation as the original 
autocatalytic set. 
These capacities give RNA-like management the power that 
living processes must possess if they are to be capable of managing an 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
142 
 
organisation of entities: They must be able to stand outside the 
organisation's dynamic processes, act across them, and influence them 
without being influenced in return. 
This is the essence of power at any level: the ability to influence 
without being influenced in return. For example, if a king can be harmed 
easily by any of his subjects, he will not have the capacity to rule over 
them and manage them. If he has the ability to determine whether his 
subjects live or die, but they also have the same capacity to terminate his 
life, he will not have the power to govern his kingdom. He will not have 
control over his subjects. He will likely be a very temporary king. Such a 
king will be like a CEO whose employees each have the ability to hire 
and fire him. The CEO will not have the power to manage employees so 
that they work in the interests of the corporation. 
These insights into the potential of processes at one level of 
organisation to constrain and manipulate a lower level were prompted by 
the 1985 book, Evolving Hierarchical Systems, written by evolutionary 
scientist Stanley Salthe. When I meet evolutionary scientists at 
conferences, I often mention this book and suggest that it will eventually 
be seen as one of the top five scientific books of the 20th century. If they 
agree, as some do (but very few), I know immediately that I am talking 
to someone who has at least some capacity for what I now refer to as 
metasystemic cognition. Someone worth taking seriously. 
Broadly then, evolvable RNA-like molecular processes have the 
potential to manage a self-producing autocatalytic set of peptides, 
proteins, and other molecules in the same way that a ruler or government 
manages a human society. This management has the potential to enable 
complex cooperation to emerge and evolve within the proto-metabolism. 
However, this brings us again to the questions that arose 
regarding human managers/governors: Why would the genetic apparatus 
use its power in this way? Can the emergence of such management be 
explained by evolutionary processes accepted and known by mainstream 
evolutionary science? 
Again, at a high level of abstraction, the answers to these 
questions are similar to those that apply at the human level. Initially, 
RNA-like molecules are likely to have predated on autocatalytic sets of 

 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
 
143 
 
peptides and other molecules. Due to their collectively-autocatalytic 
organisation, these sets would have been a rich source of smaller-scale 
molecules that could, for example, be used by the RNA-like molecules 
as components for their own self-production. The RNA-like molecules 
could use their catalytic power to plunder resources from an 
autocatalytic set, and then drift on to repeat the process with other sets 
that they encountered.  
Eventually, RNA-like molecules could emerge that would 
remain with an auto-catalytic set and harvest an ongoing stream of 
benefits from it. Such an autocatalytic set would become a proto-
metabolism in relation to the RNA-like molecules. It would be a short 
step from this to the evolution of RNA-like molecules that could use 
their power to manage a proto-metabolism in ways that enhance its 
productivity, thereby enabling the manager to harvest a greater stream of 
benefits from the set. These RNA-like managers farmed autocatalytic 
sets. As we have seen, due to the seriously limited evolvability of 
unmanaged autocatalytic sets, management had the potential to manage 
them in ways that significantly enhanced the harvestable benefits. 
Self-producing autocatalytic sets crossed the threshold to life 
only once the limitations that restricted their evolvability were overcome 
by appropriate management. It was only when this occurred that these 
self-producing organisations developed the evolvability that 
characterises living processes, and could thereafter adapt and evolve as 
coherent wholes. 
It is worth emphasising the significance of this transition. Before 
the transition, the only catalysts that could be incorporated into a set 
were those whose formation happened by chance to be catalysed by 
existing members of the set. This seriously limited the possibility space 
of adaptations that could be explored by such a system. It could not 
discover and instantiate any of the numerous potential adaptations that 
depended on catalysts that were not themselves catalysed. This was the 
case no matter how big a contribution could be made by such an 
adaptation to the survivability of the set. Similarly, a set would be 
unable to incorporate processes that could inhibit free-riding side 
reactions that would otherwise undermine the survivability of the set, 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
144 
 
except where those inhibitory processes happened fortuitously to be 
catalysed within the existing set. 
After the transition, management by RNA had the potential to 
enable the incorporation of a much wider range of catalysts into a set, 
and to support processes that inhibited free-riding. This greatly increased 
the space of adaptive organisational possibilities that could be explored. 
The evolvability of proto-metabolisms was therefore enhanced 
significantly by the emergence of effective management. Such an 
organisation had a much greater potential to discover cooperative 
relationships that enabled the organisation to adapt in ways that could 
improve survivability. This enabled self-producing molecular 
organisations to emerge that could adapt and evolve as coherent wholes. 
This in turn enabled managed sets to differentiate internally and to 
incorporate adaptive divisions of labour and specialisation, enabling 
complex functionality to emerge. Internal cooperative differentiation of 
this kind is seen in all major cooperative evolutionary transitions once 
the relevant cooperation barrier is overcome comprehensively. 
For all these reasons, life could not properly be said to have 
emerged until self-producing molecular organisations were taken over 
by the systemic architecture that enabled the cooperation barrier to be 
overcome at the molecular level. 
Once I had thought through in detail the ideas that first occurred 
to me as a flash of insight, it seemed obvious that there was an abstract 
functional equivalence between the systemic architecture that emerged 
at the origins of life, and the global management that can create a 
cooperative global society. This obviousness was reinforced by the fact 
that similar dynamical architectures can also explain the emergence of 
the other major cooperative evolutionary transitions. 
However, it was a long time before I realized that this similarity 
is only obvious in retrospect, i.e., only once one has 'seen' the similarity 
by building mental models that demonstrate its existence. Then, but only 
then, is it obvious. It will not be obvious to you until you build the 
requisite mental models. 
This transition from unintelligibility to obviousness has many 
examples in the history of science. To experience a striking example, put 

 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
 
145 
 
yourself in the frame of mind of a person living before any general 
understanding of gravity had been developed. You would not see any 
relationship between what is observed in the heavens (with the sun, 
moon, planets, and stars moving about endlessly), and what happens 
here on Earth when we let go of an object and it falls to the ground, 
ceasing to move further. The two classes of phenomena, those in the 
heavens and those on Earth, would seem to you to be totally unrelated. 
This was the situation that was faced by Galileo back in the 
sixteenth century. He was undertaking experiments to try to understand 
the trajectory of a projectile that is launched on the surface of the Earth. 
He discovered that the projectile would follow a path that could be 
described precisely. He observed that the projectile moved forward at 
the same time as gravity attracted it towards the ground. Eventually, the 
projectile would fall to earth. 
Then Galileo saw an abstract equivalence: as projectiles are 
launched with greater and greater force, they will move further and 
further before they hit the ground. Then he imagined that a projectile 
could be launched with such force that its trajectory would encircle the 
globe, never falling to Earth. He realized that this was what was 
happening with the apparently perpetual movement of heavenly bodies. 
The projectile launched with sufficient force would be just like the 
moon, orbiting the Earth endlessly. He saw that both sets of 
circumstances could be explained by one, unifying theory. As above, so 
below. We now take this as obvious, and teach it to school children. 
Once you see it, it is obvious. It is difficult to un-see it. 
However, a major challenge remained if I was to develop a 
general, unified theory that identifies the mechanisms that produced all 
the major evolutionary transitions that characterize the trajectory of the 
evolution of life on Earth. There are a number of important transitions 
that do not appear to have been organised by the systemic architecture 
that I had identified. These cooperative transitions could not be 
explained by the emergence of management imposed by external sources 
of power. The three key examples are the transition to multicellular 
organisms from single cells, to insect societies from individual insects, 
and to human tribes from individual humans. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
146 
 
It took many months for me to build mental models that enabled 
me to understand fully how these transitions were achieved. For my 
cognitive development, this effort proved very beneficial. Overcoming 
the challenge demanded further recursive testing and improvement of 
my model-building capacities. 
For example, I had to build mental models of the three transitions 
I have mentioned, and inhabit those models for hours at a time as I 
modified and refined them. This involved building dynamical models in 
my mind; seeing them from different perspectives; zooming in to 
scrutinize more closely the dynamical operation of particular 
components of the models; modifying key aspects of the models and 
then using the changed models to track the consequences of those 
changes; comparing models at higher levels of abstraction to see if there 
are commonalities between the models at different levels; and so on. I 
had to do this consciously and intentionally. Further, it was necessary to 
be aware at a meta-level of the thinking strategies that I was using, and 
to recursively improve them as I proceeded to think my way through the 
issues. 
To undertake this recursive self-improvement effectively, it was 
essential that I was able to be aware of my thought processes. I had to be 
able to see them as object, ideally in real-time. At the time, I was hoping 
that my meditation practice would help me to enhance this capacity. 
However, when I first began to develop the complex, dynamical mental 
models that captured the essential elements of these transitions, my 
thinking tended to be somewhat simple, vague, and ill-defined. But as I 
continued to put in time and effort, models that were clearer and more 
useful began to emerge from the mist and fog. 
Eventually, I saw that two forms of management existed that had 
the capacity to enable complex cooperation to emerge. As I have 
discussed in detail, the first form was where management was external 
to the organisation being managed. The second was where management 
was internal to the entities being managed and distributed across them. 
Of course, both architectures might be operative in any particular 
transition. 

 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
 
147 
 
Again, the germ for this realization came from Stanley Salthe's 
theory of evolving hierarchical systems. He argues that entities can be 
controlled not just by external processes, but also by their internal 
constituents. These can 'hard-wire' the entities with particular 
characteristics. These internal constraints can hard-wire an entity in the 
sense that they can control its behaviour but are not changed during its 
life. In other words, the hard-wired internal constraints can influence the 
behaviour of an entity, but without being influenced in return. 
Examples of hard-wired internal constraints include inherited 
genetic predispositions and inculcated cultural predispositions. It is easy 
to see that genetic predispositions embodied in the genetic apparatus can 
control the behaviour of individual cells within a multicellular organism, 
individual insects within an insect colony, and individual humans in 
some circumstances. And it is easy to see that inculcated cultural 
predispositions such as norms and morals can control the behaviours of 
individual humans, provided the predispositions are internalised 
sufficiently. 
However, it is much more difficult to see how these 
predispositions that are internal to individuals could somehow combine 
to control a group of organisms. How could they control a group in the 
way that an external manager can? And how could they capture the 
benefits they create when they support complex cooperation within a 
group? 
We will see that internal predispositions can meet both these 
requirements if a particular condition is met. This condition is that the 
same set of predispositions, whether genetic or cultural, are installed in 
each and every member of the group. When this condition is met, a 
predisposition that generates cooperation will capture all the benefits 
created by this cooperation. This is the case even though a particular 
cooperator who uses its resources to benefit others may end up worse off 
than average. However, the others within the group that benefit from this 
cooperation will also contain the set of cooperative predispositions. 
Consequently, the cooperative predispositions will capture all the net 
benefits produced by the cooperation it generates. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
148 
 
But this just seems to lead to a bigger problem: What plausible 
process would ensure that the relevant set of predispositions is 
reproduced in each and every member of the group? This problem is 
particularly significant given that if any free-rider or other non-
cooperator emerges in the group, it will receive benefits from 
cooperators without contributing to the group. As a result, it will tend to 
outcompete the other members, and its progeny will potentially take 
over the group. 
A closer examination of each of the three examples will reveal 
how this condition is met. In sexually reproducing multicellular 
organisms, each individual organism originates as a single cell. 
Therefore, all the cells in such an individual tend to contain the same 
genes. In particular, they will all contain any set of genes that 
predisposes the cells to cooperate. 
In complex multicellular organisms, this set of genes will also 
contain genes that predispose cells to produce an immune system. 
Amongst other things, the immune system will tend to destroy mutant 
cells that escape the control of the original set of genetic predispositions. 
In humans, if some of these mutant cells escape the immune system, 
their competitive advantage can result in rapid proliferation, manifesting 
as cancer. However, in the great majority of cases, these kinds of 
mechanisms ensure that each and every cell within a given multicellular 
organism contains the same set of genes, and is controlled by them.  
Due to a similar process, the individual members of insect 
societies share the same set of genetic predispositions to a significant 
extent. This is because they are closely related. Insect societies also 
often include immune system-like mechanisms that cleanse the society 
of any free-riders that emerge. 
The members of human tribes are often not related closely. As 
such, there is no likelihood that they will each include the same genetic 
predispositions. However, they share an enculturation process that tends 
to inculcate all members of the tribe with a shared set of cultural norms 
and beliefs that shape their behaviours and interactions. These cultural 
predispositions are generally entrenched in all individuals born into the 
tribe, including through socialisation. This entrenchment is typically 

 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
 
149 
 
deepened further by a shared system of supernatural beliefs and 
associated group rituals. As a result, the members of the tribe tend to 
carry the same set of cultural predispositions. 
However, because a cooperative group is susceptible to being 
undermined by any free rider that arises, tribes need to have a powerful 
mechanism that ensures that all members exhibit the relevant 
predispositions, and that any free riders that arise are quickly punished. 
Typically, this was achieved in tribes by the inclusion of cultural 
predispositions to punish or expel any individuals that behaved as if they 
did not contain the particular set of cultural predispositions that 
characterised the tribe. This kind of mechanism was generally 
orchestrated by cultural predispositions that organised the continual 
surveillance of all members of the tribe by all others. This included 
gossip as a means for sharing information about possible transgressions. 
Such a mechanism also tended to police and enforce the possession of 
pro-social genetic predispositions. 
Persistent breaching of tribal norms would generally result in 
punishment that was administered by the tribe as a group and that was 
orchestrated by cultural predispositions. This could include exclusion 
from the tribe. In effect, expulsion would generally amount to a death 
sentence. Typically, individuals isolated from a tribe did not survive. For 
any members of a tribe who persistently breached the beliefs, norms, and 
morals of the tribe, life would tend to become solitary, poor, nasty, 
brutish, and short. This was the case irrespective of whether 
transgressors had any rational basis for their failure to act according to 
group beliefs and norms. 
I use the term Distributed Lower-Level Management (DLLM) to 
refer to this form of management and to distinguish it from External 
Management (EM). 
Of course, many members of modern human societies adhere 
strongly and unquestioningly to various sets of religious and cultural 
beliefs. In many instances, these cultural predispositions tend to cause 
individuals to act in pro-social ways. Often, this pro-social internal 
management complements any prosocial management established by 
governments or other EM. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
150 
 
However, DLLM by itself is unable to organise large-scale 
cooperative human societies. This is due to the practical difficulties it 
encounters as the scale of societies increases. For example, it is 
impossible to ensure that all members of a large-scale society are 
inculcated successfully with the relevant set of cultural predispositions 
and that transgressors are eliminated quickly. 
Nevertheless, 'world religions' that treat all ethnicities equally 
have played a significant role in the successful formation of large-scale 
empires and multi-cultural societies. The sets of cultural predispositions 
that are spread by these religions made the external management of these 
societies easier and more effective. Modern societies in which many 
citizens adhere to a pro-social religion are less challenging to manage. 
As a result, the systems of religious beliefs that have survived and 
spread over the past 10,000 years tend to be those that have facilitated 
the emergence of successful external management. 
However, the relative invisibility of DLLM often leads to its 
effects being misunderstood. For example, human tribes have often been 
held up as examples of how cooperative human societies can be 
achieved without the existence of centralised power. They are not 
organised by a dominant ruler or manager. On the surface, human tribes 
seem to have achieved harmony and order through spontaneous bottom-
up processes, rather than by hierarchical top-down power. The 
egalitarian nature of tribal societies gives hope to those who are attracted 
to the idea that human societies can be organised successfully without 
the need for external governance. 
Many seem to believe that when such a tribe encountered a 
challenge, the members would meet around the campfire as equals and 
freely discuss the options open to the tribe. A decision would be arrived 
at without force or coercion. Reason, not power, would prevail. 
However, once an individual has developed mental models that reveal 
the otherwise invisible mechanisms that orchestrate the actions of tribes, 
it becomes clear that this is not how tribes are organised. 
Like large-scale hierarchical societies, tribes can only achieve 
complex cooperation if a source of power exists that can support and 
enable beneficial cooperation. Importantly, this source of power also 

 
Evolutionary Progress 
 
 
151 
 
must be able to punish behaviours that would undermine cooperation, 
and, if necessary, eliminate them. DLLM often achieved this by 
organising group punishment, and by predisposing members of the tribe 
to feel moral outrage towards the transgressors. 
As a result, life for idiosyncratic free thinkers in a tribal society 
could be even more unpleasant than if they lived in a small country town 
in Australia or in a town of similar size in the center of the United 
States. They would be continually under surveillance, and their 
behaviour would be judged continually against standards that often 
could not withstand intelligent scrutiny. 
Furthermore, the DLLM mechanism tends to be invisible to 
members of groups that are organised by DLLM. The members will 
have been inculcated with the relevant set of cultural predispositions. 
However, they will generally be completely unaware of the role that 
their beliefs and norms play as part of a system of DLLM. Often, they 
will believe that they have freely chosen their religious beliefs and moral 
principles. 
For example, take the case of conservative Christians born and 
raised in evangelical Christian families in the mid-west of the United 
States. It would be extremely unlikely for them to realize that, if they 
had instead been raised in a family of devout Hindus in a farming 
community in central India, it would be extraordinarily unlikely that 
they would be a committed evangelical Christian. 
*    *    * 
I should mention here that the impact of my epiphanous 
experience was not just intellectual. In combination with the theories I 
developed subsequently, it seems eventually to have also produced a 
kind of emotional and motivational epiphany. This overwhelmed me one 
day when I was in the process of opening the front door of our house to 
go to work. For some reason, the plight of the millions of children who 
die each year of malnutrition came into my mind, including the many 
millions more whose intellectual development is stunted due to 
inadequate access to food. It hit me that each and every human on the 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
152 
 
planet has a responsibility to stop this from happening, particularly given 
that the world can easily produce enough food to prevent this. 
I burst into tears as I realized that my theories identified the only 
way in which these and other horrors, such as war, could be overcome 
permanently. Humanity needs to take the next great step in the evolution 
of life on this planet by instituting a cooperative and sustainable global 
society underpinned by an appropriate system of global governance. I 
saw that my evolutionary insights came with a very heavy set of 
responsibilities. I had to do whatever I could to make this transition 
happen. 
In an instant, I transformed permanently from a person who was 
motivated primarily by ego to develop and publish his ideas, to a person 
who was primarily motivated to serve goals and purposes much larger 
than himself. This magnified the strength of my motivation manyfold. If 
this emotional epiphany had not occurred, I would not have produced 
what I have. It is still the force that moves me today in writing this book.

 
153 
 
13. 
 
 
 
Publishing my Theories 
 
By early 1993, I had reached the point where I could begin to write 
down my theories and submit papers for publication in international, 
peer-reviewed science journals. 
Rather than start with a paper explaining the complex insights I 
have just outlined, I decided to begin with something less ambitious. I 
commenced with a simple paper that focused on a limited but important 
problem in evolutionary science: how is it that sexual reproduction tends 
to out-compete asexual reproduction in multicellular organisms?7 
This is seen as an issue because, on the surface, natural selection 
would appear to favour asexual reproduction. An organism that 
reproduces asexually (i.e., by producing clones of itself), would appear 
to produce twice as many reproducing offspring as would any member 
of the same species that reproduces sexually. This is because half of the 
progeny of the members that reproduce sexually will be males who do 
not reproduce themselves directly. All other things being equal, all the 
progeny of the asexual members will reproduce. Consequently, asexual 
members will rapidly increase relative to sexual members, and take over 
the population. 
This issue seems to be far divorced from my ideas about the 
mechanisms that drive the trajectory of evolution toward complex 
cooperatives of greater and greater scale. However, they both arise from 
a particular perspective that generated much of my evolutionary 
thinking. This perspective views evolution as resulting from the 
operation of mechanisms that are 'intelligence-like'. These mechanisms 
 
7 Stewart (1993) - see References 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
154 
 
can be viewed usefully as 'intelligence-like' in the sense that the 
mechanisms solve adaptive challenges. 
Another way of putting this is that the mechanisms that discover 
evolutionary adaptations do so by searching a 'possibility space' that 
encompasses all possible adaptations. The mechanisms search this 
'possibility space' for adaptations that enable organisms to adapt to the 
environmental challenges that they face. 
The most familiar example of such an 'intelligence-like' 
mechanism is adaptation by natural selection. In its most simple form, 
this evolutionary mechanism searches possibility space by producing 
mutations. Each mutation is a possible adaptation. Natural selection then 
evaluates each possible adaptation to assess whether it solves some 
adaptive challenge. Where it does, the mutation tends to outcompete 
other possibilities and eventually take over the population. 
A mechanism that searches possibility space by randomly 
producing mutations is a very ineffective method for discovering 
adaptations. Blind trial-and-error is a very slow, inefficient, and wasteful 
way to discover adaptive advantages. In the sense I am using here, it is 
not very intelligent. 
A mechanism would be less wasteful if it could search possibility 
space using a method that tested only genetic possibilities that were 
more likely to be adaptively successful. Instead of trialling random 
possibilities, it could try out only possibilities that had a greater 
probability of being advantageous. A mechanism that could do this 
would be able to outcompete alternative mechanisms that trialled 
possibilities randomly. 
Sexual reproduction is such a mechanism. In addition to 
searching possibility space by trying out random mutations, it also 
searches by trying out different combinations of existing genes. Existing 
genes have already demonstrated a capacity to contribute to the 
adaptation of the organism to its environment. Consequently, a different 
combination of these existing genes might have a higher probability of 
success than a random change in any of the genes themselves. 
Sexual reproduction combines the genes of each parent and 
shuffles them in a process known appropriately as recombination. This 

 
Publishing my Theories 
 
 
155 
 
can create completely novel combinations of genes. Sexual reproduction 
is smarter than asexual reproduction. It is less wasteful because the 
method it uses to explore possibility space is more likely than random 
mutation to produce better-adapted offspring. 
My first paper argued that when the environment changes, sexual 
reproduction is able to outcompete asexual reproduction. This is because 
it is better at adapting the organism to new circumstances. This was not 
controversial or novel. But the paper went further. It demonstrated that 
even if a species was not encountering an environment that was 
continually changing, sexual reproduction could nevertheless 
outcompete an emerging clone. This is because the initial growth and 
success of the clone itself would impact the environment faced by the 
organism. These environmental changes themselves would provide an 
adaptive advantage to the members of the population that reproduce 
sexually. 
From a broader, 'big picture' perspective, the key idea here is 
that evolution itself evolves. Sexual reproduction emerged and spread 
because it was better at adapting organisms. The mechanisms that search 
for and produce evolutionary adaptation tend to be improved themselves 
as evolution proceeds. Furthermore, the improved mechanisms can then 
improve themselves, and so on, indefinitely. Evolvability, the ability to 
discover and implement better adaptations, has tended to improve 
recursively in this way throughout the evolution of life on Earth. This is 
a central aspect of the trajectory of evolution. 
As we have seen, before the genetic apparatus emerged, the 
evolvability of autocatalytic sets, the first self-producing organisations 
of molecular processes, was very limited. The emergence of RNA-like 
managers massively enhanced their evolvability. Evolvability was 
further enhanced by the emergence of managers who could explore 
possibility space digitally, i.e., by random changes in a genetic code. 
This greatly expanded the possibility space that could be explored, and 
enabled it to be explored more systematically. 
As we have also seen, sexual reproduction represented an 
additional major transition in the ability of the evolutionary process to 
discover and implement effective adaptations. However, until 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
156 
 
evolvability improved further again, evolutionary mechanisms operated 
by trying out possibilities through reproduction. Organisms did not try 
out heritable changes during their life. They could adapt somewhat 
during their life, but no matter how successful the changes, they could 
not be passed on to their offspring or to other members of the 
population. Any superior adaptations that were discovered by an 
organism during its life died with it. 
This changed with the emergence of cultural inheritance. 
However, only in humans has it developed in a complex form. Most 
multicellular organisms can adapt during their lives somewhat by 
learning. For example, through the process known as operant learning, 
they can try out different behaviours as they interact with their 
environment. Any that are positively reinforced in particular 
circumstances will tend to be repeated when similar circumstances are 
encountered again. Through this process, the organism learns what 
works in the world. They learn by consequences, as did gene-based 
evolution before it. Through trial-and-error, the organism searches for 
and discovers behaviour that is adaptive.  
The emergence of the cultural evolutionary mechanism 
converted these adaptive discoveries into evolutionary adaptations that 
could be passed on to other members of the species. No longer did they 
disappear when the individual died, like tears in rain. Learned adaptive 
discoveries could now accumulate as an evolving cultural inheritance. 
A further significant increase in evolvability occurred when trial-
and-error experimentation was able to be undertaken in an organism's 
mind, rather than in the world. This was achieved by the development of 
an ability to build mental models that could be used to identify effective 
adaptions. 
This capacity enabled organisms to build mental models of their 
interactions with their environment. The models could then be used to 
simulate the outcome of particular behaviours. Evolvability was 
enhanced significantly once organisms could use their mental models in 
this way to predict the outcome of behaviours that they had never tried 
out in the world previously. This enabled them to evaluate the adaptive 
effectiveness of novel behaviours 'in their heads'. 

 
Publishing my Theories 
 
 
157 
 
For example, early humans could build a mental model of how 
they might construct a shelter in which their family could sleep safely at 
night. They could use this model to simulate how they might use 
different materials to build an effective shelter in places where the 
materials they had used previously were not available. They did not have 
to experiment in the real world with how they might use different 
materials. Instead, they could modify the materials in their mental 
model, and simulate the outcome of doing so. 
Evaluating alternatives in the virtual reality of one's mind is far 
more efficient and often safer than doing it in the real world. And the 
discoveries that are made through the use of mental models can be 
transmitted to others through various mechanisms. It is possible to 
identify various steps in the evolution of transmission mechanisms: e.g., 
from imitation; to demonstration; to oral language; to recorded symbols 
such as writing; to printing; to film; to the internet; and so on. 
The capacity to construct mental models can also be seen to have 
moved through different stages: e.g., from models that comprise 
representations of concrete phenomena; to models that can also include 
abstractions; to models that can adequately represent complex 
phenomena; and so on. 
Furthermore, external aids such as paper, calculators, computers, 
artificial intelligence, and so on have enhanced the evolvability of these 
mechanisms. 
Finally, each new kind of entity that emerges from a cooperative 
of smaller-scale entities during the evolution of life can be considered 
from the perspective of evolvability. Each such larger-scale entity is 
constituted by processes that enable it to evolve, and the evolvability of 
these processes also evolves. At the human level, it is possible to 
consider the evolution of the evolvability of collectives such as 
corporations, nation-states, and if it emerges, a global civilization. 
It is worth noting here that this capacity to build and operate 
mental models requires consciousness. Broadly, this is because 
consciousness emerges when there is a sub-system that comprises 
internal representations (the 'object') that are managed and manipulated 
by a 'subject'. Together, these constitute a 'subject-object subsystem.' 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
158 
 
The capacity to use and manipulate mental models comprises such a 
subsystem. Consciousness arises for the subject in such a subsystem 
because there is something it is like to be a subject that manages and 
manipulates mental models. But it was nearly twenty years before I 
developed an effective and plausible model of consciousness that 
provided this understanding.8 
The acquisition of a conscious ability to construct and use mental 
models provided organisms with the capacity to look ahead and 
anticipate the future consequences of their possible actions. This enabled 
them to evaluate possible adaptations not just based on how they would 
work in the here and now. Instead, they could now adapt in the present 
in ways that took into account their predictions about future events. 
A further major transition in evolvability occurs when organisms 
develop the ability to construct mental models of the evolutionary 
processes that will shape their future evolution. They will be able to use 
these models to identify how they need to adapt and evolve in the 
present to ensure that they will survive and thrive indefinitely into the 
future. 
For example, they will be able to identify the trajectory of 
evolution, locate themselves along the trajectory, and see what they will 
need to do to remain aligned with it in the future. In particular, they will 
be able to identify how they will need to organise themselves socially 
and enhance their evolvability to avoid being selected out of existence. 
The trajectory of evolution identifies how organisms need to be 
adapted if they are to avoid becoming casualties of selection. 
Discovering the direction of evolution will therefore enable them to see 
how they will need to live their lives and adopt values and goals that will 
enable them to survive and flourish indefinitely into the future. It will 
enable them to see what they need to do to contribute successfully to the 
future evolution of life in the universe. 
Humans are currently just beginning to enter this next great 
transition in evolvability. 
 
8 Stewart (2022) - see References for full citation 

 
Publishing my Theories 
 
 
159 
 
But already, evolvability has increased enormously since life first 
emerged on Earth. It took gene-based evolutionary processes many 
millions of years of trial-and-error to discover how to produce heavier-
than-air flight. Humans achieved a form of such flight in only a few 
centuries of technological innovation. Technological development was 
enabled by culture-based evolutionary processes and by intelligence that 
is powered by conscious model building. 
Why did I have this propensity to view the evolutionary 
mechanisms that evolved living processes as having themselves 
evolved? Why was I somehow predisposed to attempt to develop a 
general theory of evolvability and its role in the trajectory of evolution? 
Looking back, it was no accident. 
As I have outlined, at a young age I stumbled upon the 
possibility that I could consciously improve my intelligence and other 
abilities. Inspired to some extent by books I had read in my early teens, I 
realized that I could intentionally work on myself to enhance my 
capacities. I did not see my adaptive capabilities as being fixed or given. 
I was, and always would be, a work in progress. In the terms used by 
Gurdjieff, I saw the possibility of becoming a self-evolving being. 
Propelled mainly by chance events, I had begun in my teens to put some 
of these ideas into practice. I developed an ability to recursively enhance 
my own problem-solving capacities. And so on. 
Consequently, when I began to think about evolutionary 
mechanisms like gene-based natural selection, I was predisposed to view 
them as processes that searched for and discovered solutions to adaptive 
challenges. Furthermore, I did not see them as fixed and given. I was 
predisposed to ask in relation to evolutionary mechanisms the kinds of 
meta-questions that I also asked myself about my own problem-solving 
abilities. In relation to my own thought processes, I asked questions like: 
are my existing processes limited in particular ways? How can these 
limitations be overcome? How can I amend my thought processes to 
enhance their capacity to solve challenging problems? 
In relation to developing a general theory of evolvability, this led 
me to ask the following kinds of questions: what processes does a 
particular evolutionary mechanism use to discover adaptive 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
160 
 
improvements? What were the evolutionary mechanisms that preceded 
it? How does the evolvability of this mechanism improve on these 
previous mechanisms? In what ways is the particular mechanism still 
limited in its ability to discover innovative adaptations? What specific 
changes to the mechanism could overcome these limitations? Did such 
an improved mechanism actually emerge in evolutionary history? Why? 
Once those improvements were made, what limitations would remain? 
How could those remaining limitations be overcome? Is there a trend in 
this sequence of enhancements? Are the mechanisms at the human level 
the result of a trend that began at the gene-based level? Is it possible to 
use the answers to these kinds of questions to identify a trajectory of the 
evolution of evolutionary mechanisms? Can this lead to a unified theory 
of evolvability that is applicable across all levels of organisations? And 
so on. 
*    *    * 
My first paper, 'The Maintenance of Sex' was published in the 
journal Evolutionary Theory in 1993. The second, 'Metaevolution', was 
published in the Journal of Social and Evolutionary Systems in 1995.9 
Metaevolution presented the 'big picture' theory that I have outlined 
above. It argued that evolution embodies a trajectory towards increasing 
integration and cooperation, and identified the mechanisms that produce 
this trajectory.  
I coined the term 'Metaevolution' to refer to the evolution of 
evolution. I thought that this focus on the evolution of evolution was apt 
because I saw that each step in the evolutionary trajectory towards 
increasing cooperation also represented an increase in evolvability. 
I was propelled in this direction because, as I have indicated, I 
was predisposed to view evolution through the lens of evolvability. This 
led me to see that initially, when a new level of living organisation was 
beginning to emerge during evolution, the entities at that level tended to 
compete against each other. This competition impeded the emergence of 
 
9 Stewart (1995) - see References for full citation 

 
Publishing my Theories 
 
 
161 
 
complex cooperation amongst the entities, constituting what I have 
referred to as a cooperation barrier. 
The barrier prevented the evolutionary process from fully 
exploring the adaptive benefits of cooperation between entities. 
Cooperative divisions of labour, specialization, and other synergies 
could not be discovered and implemented, no matter how beneficial they 
might have been adaptively. Because complex cooperation could not 
persist in a stable fashion in the population, it could not be selected into 
existence. 
In other words, the cooperation barrier prevented the relevant 
evolutionary mechanism from fully exploring the space of adaptive 
possibilities that involve complex cooperation. As such, the barrier 
represented a serious limitation in evolvability. From this perspective, 
my Metaevolution paper was about how the emergence of appropriate 
management could enhance evolvability by overcoming the limitations 
imposed by the cooperation barrier. 
At the time, I thought that this was a completely novel, 
insightful, and useful perspective. However, I decided eventually to drop 
this meta-evolutionary view of the evolution of cooperation. As I gained 
more experience in mainstream evolutionary science, I realized that I 
should keep my papers as simple and straightforward as possible. 
Instead of trying to pack each paper with radical new ideas, I should 
focus on one, or at most two, at a time. I decided to dumb down my 
papers and choose simplicity and clarity over complexity and novelty. 
This strategy has been productive. I have yet to write a paper that 
has not been published. But the road has often been rocky. About half of 
my papers have been peer-reviewed and accepted by the first journal I 
submitted them to. But the other half have been rejected at least once 
before they were eventually published. 
I had three more papers published in 1997.10 Two in the Journal 
of Social and Evolutionary Systems, and the third in the journal 
Artificial Life. The first was about the evolution of genetic evolvability. 
The second was an attempt to get artificial life practitioners to set up 
 
10 Stewart (1997a), (1997b) and (1997c) - see References for detail 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
162 
 
artificial life systems in such a way that they would undergo major 
cooperative evolutionary transitions. The third paper discussed whether 
the trajectory of evolution was progressive in evolutionary terms.

 
163 
 
14. 
 
 
 
Working for Evolution 
 
By the end of 1998, I decided it was time to write a book that put 
together my ideas about the trajectory of evolution. A major focus of the 
book was to be the development of an evolutionary theory that covered 
both human and biological evolution. The book would present a theory 
that was unified in the sense that it identified general principles that 
apply to the evolution of all living processes, not just to a particular 
subset of them. 
Of course, such a unification could not be achieved only at the 
surface level. Details differ substantially across the enormous variety of 
living processes that have emerged on this planet. Instead, a unified 
theory would need to consider aspects of evolutionary phenomena that 
come into focus only at higher levels of abstraction.  
Such an approach had the potential to identify what is common 
across all specific instances. It could show that the profusion of details 
that come into focus at lower levels of abstraction do not contradict the 
patterns that are evident at higher levels. Without such a model-building 
strategy, abstract and unifying patterns would likely be obscured forever 
by the plethora of detail. This kind of strategy is common to most 
successful research programs in science. 
But the main reason for writing a book was that I was 
discovering that such a unified, 'big picture' evolutionary theory had 
significant implications for humanity, here and now—for the way we 
live our lives and organise ourselves socially. These findings were not 
suited for publication in science journals. There were several reasons for 
this. 
First, the discoveries that had implications for humanity tended 
to cross many disciplinary boundaries. In particular, I was finding that 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
164 
 
my evolutionary theorizing was leading me into fields as diverse as 
economics, ethical philosophy, political science, and anthropology and 
sociology. As far as I knew, there were no reputable journals that would 
publish articles of sufficient diversity and length to outline the results of 
my thinking.  
Second, science journals would tend to view my theory as highly 
speculative and not rigorous enough to qualify as hard science. Given 
the rules and methodologies used at the time to define proper science, 
such an assessment would be reasonably accurate. Any comprehensive 
evolutionary theory that set out to explain and make predictions about 
complex aspects of human evolution was likely to run afoul of the 
standards of mainstream science. 
If such an evolutionary theory were to be comprehensive, it 
would have to encompass the evolution of human political, economic, 
and social systems. However, these domains are generally studied as 
part of the humanities, not by mainstream science. 
The methods and research strategies used by mainstream science 
have failed miserably to make any significant progress in the humanities. 
Where the humanities are forced to use these science-based methods, 
such as in much of American academic psychology, it tends to produce 
findings that are rigorous and evidence-based, but that are trivial, 
uninteresting, and largely irrelevant. Generations of students who enroll 
in University courses in psychology have been seriously disappointed. 
Instead of learning something insightful and useful about their own 
psychological functioning, all they get in the main is 'rats and stats'. 
As I have mentioned previously and will discuss in greater detail 
later, mainstream science is ineffective at understanding complex, 
dynamic phenomena. Unfortunately, most aspects of reality that are of 
interest to humans are comprised of dynamical systems of this kind. 
As we shall see, a new kind of science and a new level of 
cognition are necessary for science to make worthwhile progress in these 
areas. 
I was not prepared to restrict my work to what was considered 
acceptable to mainstream science. The intuitions that had driven my 
thinking since I was a teenager were that a comprehensive evolutionary 

 
Working for Evolution 
 
 
165 
 
theory had the power to answer key questions about human existence: 
Where do we come from? What are we? Where are we going to? and 
What should we do with our lives? I was finding increasingly that these 
intuitions were accurate. I was making real progress in using an 
evolutionary worldview to address these fundamental issues. 
I had never been interested in studying evolution from an 
external perspective. Current mainstream science tends to study its 
subject matter in this way, from the outside. It tends to proceed as if 
scientists are separated from reality by a pane of glass. Science is at 
great pains to exclude scientists and their subjectivity from their study of 
phenomena. 
However, this separation is shattered once the phenomena being 
studied include scientists, their ethics, any meaning and purpose that 
they find in their lives, as well as the societies, economic, and political 
systems in which they are embedded, and how all these phenomena are 
likely to coevolve into the future. 
As I was discovering, the more my evolutionary theorizing 
progressed, the more that the discoveries I was making tended to affect 
my own goals and the way that I viewed myself and my being in the 
world. I, my actions, and my strategies were all relevant variables in the 
theories that I was developing.  
This was the reality that confronted me at the end of 1998. If I 
wanted to write about the implications of a general theory of evolution 
for the human condition, I would have to write a book. Reflecting this, 
the title of the book was to be 'Evolution's Arrow: The Direction of 
Evolution and the Future of Humanity.' 
Unfortunately, I would not be able to write the book at work. 
Long hours of uninterrupted thinking and writing were required. Work 
was great for writing and editing papers, but writing a book from scratch 
was impossible. Fortunately, Australian Government employees were 
entitled to long service leave of 13 weeks after 10 years' service, and pro 
rata for service after that. This could be taken on half pay for double the 
period of leave. Combining this with my accumulated annual leave, I 
calculated that I could afford to have up to a year's leave on half pay. 
My wife agreed to the proposal. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
166 
 
In the 25 or so years since then, I have continued to develop and 
refine both my evolutionary theory and its implications for myself and 
for humanity more generally. When I get near the end of this part of the 
book that outlines my developmental odyssey, I will summarize the 
main findings and implications of my evolutionary theorizing. 
For those interested in exploring particular issues in greater 
depth, I will also provide references to papers of mine that are relevant 
to each issue. But here, I will confine myself to giving an example of 
one of the key issues that preoccupied my thinking at the time. It 
demonstrates the powerful potential of the evolutionary worldview and 
metasystemic cognition to answer the big existential questions that face 
us all. 
I will explore how an evolutionary worldview can fundamentally 
change how we decide how to act and behave. It can transform how we 
see ourselves and produce a new kind of human being. 
I will begin by taking as an example the role of ethical and moral 
principles in shaping human behaviour. I will demonstrate that the role 
of ethical and moral principles will diminish in importance as our 
cognitive capacities increase as we evolve into the future. Ethics, norms 
of behaviour, and morals will increasingly become redundant. 
We have discussed earlier how norms and morals played a 
critically important role in the evolution of cooperative human tribes and 
societies. Entrenched by socialisation and often also by religious 
systems and genetic predispositions, norms and morals were part of the 
system of management that was hard-wired into members of the society. 
These predispositions caused members to behave in ways that enabled 
complex cooperation to be sustained within the group. Selection driven 
by competition between groups favoured societies that were managed by 
systems of norms and morals that were better at organising the society 
effectively. 
The members of any given tribal society were not free to choose 
to change their tribe's norms and morals at will. As discussed earlier, the 
effectiveness of management depended on it being hard-wired across the 
members of the society. If the members had the capacity to change their 
norms and morals at will, it would often have led the tribe to disaster. 

 
Working for Evolution 
 
 
167 
 
This is because the tribal members did not have the cognitive 
ability to build mental models of alternative systems of norms and 
morals and use the models to identify the system that was best for 
themselves and the tribe. A cognitive capacity at the metasystemic level 
would be necessary for this. The tribe, its organisation, and the effects of 
changes to its norms and morals constitute phenomena that are highly 
complex. Even analytical/rational cognition wielded by highly-trained 
sociologists and anthropologists struggles with this kind of challenge. 
Consequently, the evolvability of systems of norms, morals, and 
associated religious beliefs was very limited. To the extent that they did 
evolve as circumstances changed, this tended to be driven by costly 
selection resulting from inter-group competition. 
However, social and cultural circumstances have changed 
significantly since humans lived in tribal societies and since 
monotheistic religions first emerged. Relevant circumstances continue to 
change rapidly and are likely to do so even more quickly in the future. 
There are obvious disadvantages in continuing to have our 
actions dictated by inflexible rules and principles established by past 
evolution. The behaviours that were favoured during our evolutionary 
history are highly unlikely to continue to lead us to evolutionary success 
going forward. In fact, it is becoming increasingly likely that they will 
lead us to environmental destruction within the next 100 years. 
To the extent that we continue to maintain our preexisting 
genetic, cultural, and social predispositions, humanity is likely to be 
maladapted to the new circumstances. Significant changes to our 
behaviours are likely to be necessary to ensure we continue to be 
adapted to changing social and environmental conditions. 
However, few humans currently live as if they are aware that the 
fundamental characteristics that govern their behaviour have been 
shaped by evolutionary processes. Few view their religious beliefs, 
values, and ethics as having been fashioned by past evolutionary 
processes. Many take their religious and ethical beliefs to be true, and 
see their values as being absolutely appropriate and justified. They tend 
to be embedded in their emotional states. They fail to see them as 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
168 
 
evolution's method of motivating particular behaviours that were 
adaptive in the past environments that shaped them. 
Even fewer see their fundamental beliefs, values, and ethics as 
characteristics that need to be reviewed and evaluated regularly as 
relevant circumstances change. They do not see them as contingent 
features that should be adapted intentionally as social and environmental 
conditions vary. 
It is useful at this point to imagine a hypothetical scenario in 
which life emerges and evolves on some other planet in our galaxy. 
Imagine that evolution on this planet gets to the point where sentient 
organisms arise and go through a tribal phase. Consequently, they come 
to be equipped with entrenched ethical and moral beliefs that organise 
pro-social behaviours. 
Now, consider the possibility that some of these organisms 
develop higher cognitive capacities. In particular, they become 
cognitively advanced enough to construct mental models of how their 
social and physical environment is likely to evolve and change in the 
future. These models would enable the organisms to assess how they 
might need to change their goals, values, and ethics if they are to survive 
the predicted changes. They would be able to predict the selection that 
would be imposed by changed circumstances, and identify the kind of 
modifications they would need to make to their behaviour in order to 
avoid costly selection. 
Such an organism would no longer need to depend on selection 
installing in it the genetic and cultural predispositions that would cause it 
to behave in adaptive ways. The organism would not have to continue to 
obey blindly the predispositions that were installed in it by past 
evolution, including those that may be maladapted to current or future 
circumstances. 
Instead, they would be able to use their mental models to identify 
how they need to remake themselves intentionally. They would be able 
to work on themselves consciously in order to develop the capacity to 
free themselves from the dictates of their genetic, cultural, and social 
past, including their conditioning. This would enable them to move at 
right angles to their existing predispositions. They would become self-

 
Working for Evolution 
 
 
169 
 
evolving organisms, able to adapt in whatever ways are demanded as 
circumstances change. No longer would evolutionary processes such as 
genetic and cultural selection have to force them to change. They would 
be able to work it out themselves, and choose to act accordingly. 
More specifically, these organisms would no longer have their 
behaviour guided primarily by ethical and moral principles or rules. 
When confronted with complex social challenges, for example, they 
would not have to decide what to do by consulting ethical rules or moral 
principles. Instead, the organisms would be able to make such decisions 
by using their modelling capacity to identify the actions that would 
produce the best evolutionary outcomes. Broadly, this would equate to 
the behaviours that would have prevailed if normal evolutionary 
selective processes had continued to operate. For such an organism, 
ethics and morality would be abolished as primary categories to guide 
behaviour. 
This outcome can be seen as the culmination of a trend that 
began when organisms first started to develop a capacity for mental 
modelling. As we have seen, mental modelling enables an organism to 
identify the future consequences of its actions. It can therefore be used to 
discover effective adaptations without the costly trial-and-error involved 
in natural selection or trial-and-error learning. 
However, when a capacity for mental modelling first emerges, its 
ability to anticipate future events is limited. 
As the capacity for mental modelling improves, the organism 
will be able to take into account the impacts of behaviours that are more 
distant in time and space. Increasingly, the organism's behaviour will be 
shaped by mental models, rather than by inherited genetic or cultural 
predispositions. Wherever this replacement occurs, the organism will 
experience its decision-making as being of a practical nature, directed at 
identifying actions that produce particular adaptive outcomes in the 
world. Increasingly, decision-making will use mental models to identify 
actions that will achieve the organism's goals. No longer will these 
decisions be motivated primarily by ethical and moral considerations. 
As this capacity continues to develop, the organism will 
eventually be able to construct mental models of the longer-term 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
170 
 
evolutionary consequences of its actions. Even actions that have highly 
complex and longer-term impacts will now be able to be evaluated 
effectively by the organism using its mental models. 
The organism will also experience these evolutionary decisions 
as practical matters, not as ethical and moral choices. The choices that it 
makes will be determined by predictions about the evolutionary 
consequences of the alternatives, not whether they are right or wrong 
according to some culturally-inherited religious or moral system. 
For an example in human evolution, consider the choices that are 
made about what food to eat. Most humans have genetic predispositions 
to enjoy sweet foods. This predisposition was likely installed in humans 
when sugar and other carbohydrates were in short supply in their 
environment. However, in modern environments this is not the case, and 
this predisposition often drives obesity and other health problems. Our 
mental models enable us to understand this, and we can, as a matter of 
practicality, consciously decide to restrict our sugar intake. 
In the past, some food choices were also guided by religious 
beliefs. For example, a number of religious systems prohibited the 
consumption of pork, often for reasons that had nothing to do with the 
known effects of eating it. Increasingly, however, food choices are now 
decided as matters of practicality, based on science-based mental 
models. 
These examples also illustrate another feature of this major 
transition in evolvability. It is obvious that the transition can be made 
only once an organism has developed the cognitive capacity to construct 
and operate mental models of complex future circumstances. However, 
it also requires organisms to be able to free themselves from the dictates 
of their genetic and cultural predispositions and conditioning. 
It is not enough just to know what to do to thrive and survive. It 
is insufficient just to be able to see that particular predispositions are 
maladaptive in current circumstances. Knowledge alone does not free 
individuals from inculcated predispositions. They need to develop an 
ability to move at right angles to pre-existing predispositions. Many 
humans know that excess sugar and fat in their diets is harmful to their 

 
Working for Evolution 
 
 
171 
 
future health and survival. However, many are unable to override the 
predispositions that drive their over-consumption. 
Recapping: Improvements in evolvability will eventually 
produce organisms that have developed a comprehensive understanding 
of the evolutionary processes that have shaped them and that will 
determine their survivability into the future. The organisms will be able 
to use this understanding to identify the trajectory of evolution and to 
locate themselves and their social systems along it. This enables them to 
see how they need to adapt and evolve so that they remain aligned with 
the trajectory in the future, and are not selected out of existence. 
Increasingly, they will be able to use this evolutionary 
understanding to make decisions about how to evolve themselves and 
their societies. No longer will they blindly follow ethical, moral, and 
religious principles that governed the behaviours of their ancestors. To 
do so would be absurd, particularly where the strategies that they derive 
from their mental models conflict with these predispositions. 
Of course, on this planet at this time, humanity is at the threshold 
of making this major evolutionary transition in evolvability. At present, 
almost no humans have reached the stage where their cognitive 
capacities are sufficient to build mental models of enough scope and 
complexity to envisage how we will need to evolve and adapt to survive 
indefinitely into the future. However, we have developed the cognitive 
capacity to construct analytical/rational models. 
As we have discussed, analytical/rational thinking underpins 
current mainstream science and has driven technological development. 
But it is limited. It builds only simple, mechanistic models that can be 
'thought through' analytically. Consequently, it is only useful for 
modelling those limited parts of reality that can be approximated by 
simple, mechanistic models. It is next to useless for building models of 
most of reality. Much of reality is too dynamically complex to be 
represented adequately by such models. As a result, analytical/rational 
thinking is largely incapable of building and operating models of 
complex evolutionary processes. 
At present, for nearly all humans, ethics and morality have not 
yet been ousted by evolutionary modelling. However, religious systems 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
172 
 
(and the ethics and morality that they entrench) have been seriously 
undermined by the rise of analytical/rational cognition. Religious 
systems have been unable to defend themselves effectively against 
critiques of religious beliefs that have been made by analytical/rational 
thinkers. As Nietzsche pronounced, God is dead, and we, the rational, 
have killed him. 
As Nietzsche also demonstrated, this destruction of the systems 
of religious belief that had previously provided a strong basis for ethical 
and moral systems, puts humanity in a very difficult and dangerous 
position. When religion ruled, it reinforced moral and ethical principles 
that assisted humanity to adapt effectively, including by producing 
cooperative social systems. Unfortunately, in order to understand the 
wisdom of many of these principles, cognition that is capable of 
modelling complex dynamical systems is required. 
As a result, when rationality killed God and undermined the 
moral principles that religions had entrenched, analytical/rational 
thinking was not up to the task of developing replacement principles 
from scratch. This was particularly the case for the pro-social principles 
necessary to bind together humans into complex social systems. 
Analytical/rational models are incapable of understanding what is 
required to accomplish this. 
Tragically, humanity was left without the wisdom needed to 
replace what it had destroyed. As Nietzsche pointed out, what humanity 
needs, therefore, is what he referred to as a re-valuation of all values. 
We need to reassess all our values and goals. Consciously and 
intentionally, we need to construct the mental models needed to 
systematically re-evaluate our goals and strategies, particularly in 
relation to our social systems. We need to change them as necessary to 
adapt ourselves and our social systems to our current circumstances, and 
to evolve them as circumstances change. 
If our new goals and strategies are to be viable, they will need to 
be able to withstand rational criticism. They will need to be science-
based. But to undertake this re-valuation effectively, we will need to 
develop what I am referring to as metasystemic cognition—the ability to 
construct and operate mental models of complex, evolving, interacting, 

 
Working for Evolution 
 
 
173 
 
dynamical systems. However, at the present time, we do not have these 
higher cognitive capacities. We have killed God, but do not yet have a 
replacement. We are facing existential threats that, at least in part, have 
been generated by this failing. We are currently in a race between a 
descent into self-destruction and the getting of wisdom in the form of 
metasystemic cognition. The fundamental purpose of this book is to 
assist in the development and spread of metasystemic cognition across 
humanity. 
In order to implement the results of this re-valuation so as to 
complete this major evolutionary transition, humanity will also need to 
develop the capacity to be self-evolving, both as individuals and 
collectively. We will need to transform our psychology so that we are 
able to change ourselves and our behaviour at will. This will require the 
development of practices that free ourselves from our genetic, cultural, 
and social predispositions and conditioning. 
Broadly, the same applies to organisations of humans, including 
our societies. They too will need to adapt using appropriate 
metasystemic cognition, and to become self-evolving entities in their 
own right. 
I have already outlined my earlier fumbling and stumbling 
attempts to identify practices that are capable of scaffolding a capacity 
for self-evolution. There is more about these efforts later in the book. As 
my thinking about the nature of major evolutionary transitions 
developed, it propelled me further in the direction of discovering 
practical methods for becoming self-evolving. 
It is important to emphasise a number of points about this major 
transition in evolvability: 
First, it does not commit what is known as the naturalistic 
fallacy. This fallacy argues that it is invalid to derive an 'ought' from an 
'is'. In other words, it is illogical to argue that humans ought to do 
something solely on the basis of facts about the way the world is. In 
particular, the naturalistic fallacy has often been used to attack attempts 
to use evolutionary theories to suggest what we should do with our lives. 
For example, it can be legitimately argued that just because evolution 
might have favoured aggressive competition (or cooperation), it does not 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
174 
 
follow that humans ought to do likewise in their lives. The fact that 
evolution appears to favour something does not mean that humans ought 
to. 
But what I am proposing here does not suffer from this 
deficiency. It derives its 'oughts' from other 'oughts' in combination 
with relevant facts, not solely from facts. There is no logical fallacy 
involved in deriving 'oughts' from other 'oughts'. For example, if an 
individual holds a particular value, it is perfectly rational for the 
individual to use that value to derive new values that are consistent with 
it. This is clearly the case where satisfaction of the derived values will 
lead to the satisfaction of the original value. 
The use of relevant factual information in this derivation of new 
values is also perfectly legitimate. Particular facts might be highly 
relevant to identifying the circumstances in which the pursuit of the new 
value is consistent with the pursuit of the original value. 
Individuals who become self-evolving do not commit the 
naturalistic fallacy—they use evolutionary theory and model building to 
choose their actions only to the extent that this is consistent with their 
most fundamental, pre-existing values. In effect, they rely on arguments 
of the sort: "If you want to ensure that humanity survives under these 
particular circumstances, you ought to adopt the following kind of goals, 
and take the following kinds of action ..." Of course, if a person has no 
preference about whether humanity survives or not, these 'oughts' 
would not apply to them. 
A narrow analytical philosopher might attempt to counter such 
an argument by suggesting that it necessarily leads to an infinite 
regress—the argument cannot ground any 'ought' at all without relying 
on some pre-existing 'ought'. However, this ignores the fact that any 
real-world human being who engages in making such a decision already 
comes fully equipped with plenty of pre-existing 'oughts'. There is no 
such thing as a functioning 'oughtless' human being. Show me an 
'oughtless' human, and I will show you a dead body. This fact 
terminates any regress well short of infinity. 
Furthermore, nearly all humans want civilization to continue to 
function effectively for at least as long as their lifetime. This goal is 

 
Working for Evolution 
 
 
175 
 
capable of generating a plethora of 'oughts' about how we need to adapt 
and evolve within that timeframe. This is because if human civilization 
is to survive and thrive this century, individual humans and their 
societies need to evolve in many particular ways in the coming years. 
This brings me to the second point that I need to make about the 
transition to conscious self-evolution. The evolution that I am talking 
about is not a process that occurs only in the far-flung future. It is true 
that complex adaptations took millions of years to emerge when the 
evolutionary process depended on genetic mutations that were subjected 
to selection over many generations. Gene-based natural selection tends 
to search possibility space very slowly. Many billions of organisms must 
be selected out of existence for these mechanisms to discover and build 
complex adaptations. 
But to a large extent, these gene-based mechanisms have been 
superseded as evolvability itself evolved and improved. Gene-based 
mechanisms do not generate most of the evolution that occurs at the 
human level now. As the great philosopher of science Karl Popper put it, 
our ideas now die in our stead. We now try out possible adaptations in 
our heads. Rather than taking millions of years, evolution can now 
proceed as fast as we think. Significant changes can take days or even 
hours to emerge and begin to spread. 
I used to joke with my two daughters that they were not my real 
children. I would tell them that from an evolutionary perspective, my 
real children are my ideas. 
Evolution is occurring now, as you read this page. As we will see 
in more detail, there are numerous actions that individuals need to take 
here and now if humanity is to survive and evolve successfully into the 
future. 
Up to this point, evolution on Earth has proceeded largely blindly 
and without foresight. After this transition, it will proceed consciously, 
anticipating how evolutionary demands are likely to change in the 
future. As Marshall McLuhan pointed out, past evolution has been like 
driving a car while looking only in the rear-view mirror. Previously, 
evolution proceeded by taking into account only the past consequences 
of actions.  

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
176 
 
The acquisition by humans of metasystemic cognition, together 
with a capacity to self-evolve, will fundamentally change the 
evolutionary process on this planet. And it will transform not just the 
role of ethics and morality in shaping human behaviour. 
In large part, our desires and motivations, not just those 
associated with our ethics and morality, have been shaped by our 
evolutionary past. Although the means for satisfying our desires have 
changed enormously, we continue to pursue much the same proxies for 
evolutionary success as our ancestors did fifty thousand years ago. We 
spend our lives chasing the positive feelings produced by experiences 
such as popularity, self-esteem, sex, feelings of uniqueness, power, 
eating, and social status. We strive to avoid the negative feelings that go 
with experiences such as stress, guilt, depression, loneliness, hunger, and 
shame.  
In effect, we live in a virtual world created by past evolution. 
What we take to be important and valuable is an illusion created by 
evolution to control our behaviour. 
This understanding resonates with the suggestion made by some 
Eastern spiritual traditions that the experiences that we take to be real 
and important in our lives are, in fact, Maya. They are illusions that 
orchestrate our behaviours until we wake up to reality's true nature. 
It is also consistent with Plato's allegory of the cave, in which 
humans mistake shadows on a cave wall for reality but are chained by 
their desires to see only the shadows. 
As Shakespeare put it, an individual: "struts and frets his hour 
upon the stage, and then is heard no more. It is a tale told by an idiot, 
full of sound and fury, signifying nothing." The 'tale told by an idiot' is 
the story we tell ourselves and others about our life in Maya. 
If humans complete this transition, it will represent a major 
evolutionary transition in evolvability. It will be of evolutionary 
significance, not just of historical importance. This transition will enable 
us to free ourselves from the dictates of our evolutionary past. A new 
kind of human will enter history and evolution. It will change 
everything.

 
177 
 
15. 
 
 
 
Working on Awakening 
 
The writing of my book 'Evolution's Arrow' went well during 1999. As 
I do, I began by investigating techniques for writing books, and adapted 
them to my circumstances and needs. I found that writing for about four 
hours a day for four days a week was enough to produce a good first 
draft by the time I had to return to my paid work. I would then be able to 
edit and polish the book when I resumed work. 
Consequently, I had plenty of spare time at home while I was 
writing the book. My daughters were teenagers, one 16, the other 14. 
Usually, I had finished my writing for the day before they arrived home 
from school. Every afternoon, we would all get together as a family for a 
talk and a laugh when they got home. In general, I was extremely happy 
being married and I found having two bright and lively daughters truly 
magical. But this went to a new level during my year at home. It was the 
happiest year of my life. Producing a book was a bonus. 
Finishing writing around 3 pm also gave me the opportunity to 
get involved in the girls' sporting activities. Australia is very sports-
focused, given its warm weather and outdoor lifestyle. And both my 
wife's and my own family had a history of involvement in sports. My 
eldest daughter, Anna, was a talented cricketer. She specialised in 
batting, and her stroke-making was elegant. Eventually, I became the 
manager of her cricket team. Other fathers would often compliment me 
on her batting style, thinking that I had coached it into her. But I had 
nothing to do with it. It was largely innate. 
Her batting skills and elegance were very surprising. When she 
was younger, she was nicknamed 'Unco-Anna' at school. She was 
visibly uncoordinated when running and catching balls. When she asked 
me if I could take her to play cricket, I would make excuses. I put it off 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
178 
 
for years. I thought that I was protecting her from the embarrassment of 
dropping a key catch in a game, causing her team to lose. But when she 
picked up a cricket bat, she was transformed. I still feel a bit guilty for 
not taking her to cricket at a much younger age. Fortunately, however, 
this was the only mistake I made during Anna's upbringing. 
My other daughter, Libby, had natural coordination skills and 
athleticism in abundance. She took to playing tennis. There was 
something very enjoyable about going with her to the local tennis courts 
in the afternoon and taking her to tournaments on the weekend. 
Because we lived in the Australian Capital Territory with its 
relatively small population compared with other States, it was relatively 
easy to get selected to take part in annual State-level competitions. You 
did not have to be very serious about your sport and have it as the main 
focus of your life. Anna represented the ACT in cricket for several 
years, and Libby represented the ACT in tennis. 
My involvement with Libby's tennis also played a significant 
role in my further exploration of practices that could help to scaffold 
capacities for self-evolution and self-mastery. 
When Libby began playing some tennis games at night, she 
found that she could not serve with her normal effectiveness. On some 
occasions, she even missed hitting the ball after throwing it in the air to 
serve. This was inexplicable to her coach and me. She had no trouble at 
all hitting volleys that were travelling towards her at a far greater speed 
than the ball did when she was serving. But gradually, we were able to 
piece together the cause from a number of seemingly unrelated events. 
One of these occurred while Libby was practicing at a local 
tennis court, and rain forced the players indoors. Libby and her friends 
began playing table tennis. But Libby found that she often missed hitting 
the ball back. Again, this did not seem consistent with her ability to hit 
tennis balls from all angles and speeds. 
Then her mother remembered taking Libby for an eye check 
when Libby was young. The doctor told her that Libby would never pilot 
a fighter jet. He explained that she had a 'lazy eye'. It became apparent 
that Libby was playing tennis with only one good eye. This was 
confirmed when she tried covering up her normal eye. Her remaining 

 
Working on Awakening 
 
 
179 
 
vision was very blurred. As well as never becoming a jet pilot, Libby 
would never be able to become a top-level tennis player. 
This intrigued me. I had learned at school that binocular vision 
was required for depth perception. Yet Libby played tennis at a very 
high level for her age. How could she possibly do this without effective 
depth perception? 
I used several techniques to test whether or not Libby had 
functioning depth perception. For example, I tried her out on 
stereograms. These are two-dimensional pictures that, when viewed in a 
particular way, produce perceptions in 3D. However, this did not 
provide a definitive answer. The stereograms that I could find did not 
work very well for me, and I had two normal eyes and good depth 
perception. 
I looked for another method. At the time, it was winter in 
Canberra, and the elm trees were without leaves. After a while, I 
discovered that if I looked long enough into the bare branches and twigs 
of a tree, I would be able to see the tree in three dimensions. Branches 
that were nearer to me would 'pop out' from branches that were further 
away. The effect was striking.  
It took some practice, but eventually I found that I could 
experience my entire visual field in vivid 3D. I was able to see trees as a 
whole, avenues of trees as a whole, people and crowds of people in 3D, 
and buildings in 3D. When seen as a whole, trees took on an entirely 
different character. Somehow, their trunks looked like crystals, fixed in 
space, embedded in stillness. 
Finally, I understood a line from a Joyce Kilmer poem that I had 
memorized for English exams many years ago: "I think I shall never see 
a poem as lovely as a tree". I could now see what he saw when he 
looked at a tree in a state of stillness and presence. 
When I looked at the world the way I had learned to see the 
leafless branches of Canberra elm trees, everything looked beautiful and 
extraordinary. As the great Italian film director Federico Fellini said: "If 
you see with innocent eyes, everything is divine." Libby's problem had 
led me to discover how to look at the world with innocent eyes. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
180 
 
Libby's lack of depth perception could not be remedied at her 
age. If she had received appropriate treatment when young, her brain 
could probably have adapted to overcome the issue. But as a 14-year-
old, it was too late. 
Nevertheless, she was still a very good tennis player. Apparently, 
with practice, her visual system had learned to use other cues that 
enabled her to hit the ball successfully without binocular vision. 
Presumably, for example, her perception could use factors such as the 
size of the image of the ball falling on her retina. Conceivably, this 
enabled her to estimate where the ball was located in space relative to 
her and to hit the ball reliably. 
It was not immediately obvious to me what was happening when 
my attempts to see my external environment in 3D somehow produced a 
state in which the visual world appeared more spacious and vivid. But 
my experience seemed to tally with how Gurdjieff responded when 
asked what it was like when you awaken in the midst of ordinary life. 
"Everything more vivid," he said. 
Before long, I could enter this state at any time I wanted to, 
whether I was walking in a park or in a city, or during a meeting at 
work. It seemed to be a major step forward in the development of a 
capacity to be awake in the midst of ordinary life. By this time, I had 
been meditating regularly for 8 or so years, often with eyes open in 
public places. Whilst meditating, I could enter a state of internal stillness 
and spacious awareness. But this had not translated into a capacity to be 
awake while I was engaged in daily activities. 
Now I could enter this state at will. But this only got me into the 
state if I actually remembered to decide to enter it. Often for long 
periods, I would forget all about entering the state. When I was caught 
up in interactions with people or in demanding work, my awareness 
tended to be embedded in these activities, and would remain embedded. 
There was no surplus attention left over that could remind me that I 
wanted to return to being awake as soon as possible. As is the case for 
everyone, when I was thinking deeply about something, the rest of the 
world disappeared from my awareness. I was totally absorbed in the 
thinking. 

 
Working on Awakening 
 
 
181 
 
It was obvious to me that I still had a long way to go to awaken 
fully and to use this capacity to become self-evolving in ordinary life. 
Much work on myself was needed to take these further, important steps. 
But I could see the potential. When I was awake during normal 
activities, I tended to be unabsorbed in thinking and feeling. While I was 
in this state of spacious awareness and stillness, thoughts, and feelings 
would still arise to some extent, but I was less likely to become absorbed 
in them. I was less likely to find that my awareness had contracted down 
and was now absorbed in particular thoughts. 
In the state of stillness, thoughts and feelings were less likely to 
arise. But this was not because they were actively suppressed. In fact, 
when they did arise, I would experience them more fully and vividly, 
just as I experienced the external environment more fully. In this state, 
trees and other objects did not automatically capture and contract 
attention. I could move attention to them or away from them at will. It 
was now much the same for thoughts and feelings. 
Towards the end of 1999 and during the early 2000s, my major 
goal became to explore waking up, self-evolution, and associated issues 
in depth. I was propelled along this path by a combination of two 
developments: what I had learned from my exploration of Libby's tennis 
issue; and what my evolutionary thinking was increasingly revealing 
about the critical importance of a capacity to awaken in ordinary life. 
In the meantime, I had finished the final draft of Evolution's 
Arrow. I was not optimistic about finding a publisher. I did not have the 
public or academic profile needed to reassure publishers that the book 
would be a success. I could spend years trying to find someone to 
publish the book without much chance of success. 
For these reasons, I imposed on myself a deadline of six months 
to find a publisher. During that time, I had a couple of near misses, but 
nothing concrete. When the deadline passed, I proceeded to self-publish 
by putting HTML and PDF versions of the book on the internet so that it 
was freely available. 
I followed this up by spending considerable time bringing the 
book to the attention of relevant academics and thinkers. For example, I 
combed the records of international conferences on systems science to 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
182 
 
find people who had presented relevant papers, googled their email 
addresses, and sent them materials and links about the book. 
At the time, I thought that it was possible that some of the 
evolutionary thinkers that I contacted would tell me that my 
evolutionary theories were not novel. They might suggest that my ideas 
had already been developed and published by others. This was a 
possibility that my previous research could not rule out. Prior to writing 
Evolution's Arrow, I had almost no direct contact with other 
evolutionary thinkers. I had not attended any international conferences, 
and my papers had received little attention in the literature, positive or 
negative. Consequently, I could not be sure whether my ideas had been 
arrived at previously by others. 
Furthermore, as I have mentioned, by now the theories developed 
in the book seemed obvious to me. I thought that its central ideas would 
also have been obvious to others and been developed previously. 
I was surprised when no one contacted me to say that my 
theories had already been published by others. Nor did I receive any 
negative responses about the ideas. In general, the responses were 
positive and encouraging. 
Perhaps the most significant response was from the 
internationally renowned cybernetician and systems thinker, Francis 
Heylighen, a lecturer at the Free University of Brussels. He was well 
known for his work on the Principia Cybernetica Project. This was an 
ambitious attempt to post comprehensive materials about cybernetics on 
the internet and make them freely available and accessible. He liked 
Evolution's Arrow, and made a PDF of the book available through the 
Principia Cybernetica Website. 
Francis also invited me to become affiliated with his Department 
at the Free University of Brussels. He said that he had noticed that I did 
not have any formal academic affiliation (in fact, in some earlier papers, 
I had given the Department of Industrial Relations as my address, 
somewhat in jest). Francis suggested that a proper academic affiliation 
would make it easier to get future papers published. I jumped at his kind 
offer. A few years later, Francis established a formal research group that 

 
Working on Awakening 
 
 
183 
 
I joined: The Evolution, Complexity and Cognition Research Group, at 
the Free University of Brussels. A perfect fit. 
My goal of exploring the capacities associated with awakening 
and self-evolution had two interrelated purposes. Neither had anything 
to do with spirituality. As I have indicated earlier, I had no interest or 
belief in religious, supernatural, or mystical phenomena. This had not 
changed. However, none of this prevented me from learning from the 
discoveries of the contemplative and spiritual traditions, and attempting 
to understand the states that they explored, but from a materialist 
perspective. 
The first purpose was to discover practices and knowledge that 
would enable me and anyone else to awaken permanently in ordinary 
life. However, for me, awakening was a means to an end, not an end in 
itself. I was interested in awakening primarily due to its potential to 
enable self-evolution. Furthermore, awakening had the potential to 
enable an individual to see one's thinking as object. As I have 
mentioned, this was critically important for enabling an individual to see 
the limitations of their existing thinking, and to enhance it intentionally 
and recursively. 
In addition, I also had some experiences that indicated that 
awakening could provide access to cognitive resources that were 
important for creative thinking. These include intuitions and pattern-
recognition capabilities that appear to come from the unconscious mind, 
but are normally excluded from awareness by incessant absorption in 
thought. 
In short, awakening seems to have the potential to enhance 
cognition and to enable self-evolution. 
My second purpose was to develop a scientific theory of the 
development of the capacities that enable awakening and self-evolution. 
As I have mentioned earlier, I wanted to develop a materialist model that 
could explain, for example, why it is that humans can achieve changed 
states of awareness; how and why these can be produced to some extent 
by meditation; how awakening can be produced; what enlightenment is 
and how it can be achieved; how spiritual practices produce the effects 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
184 
 
that they do; and how can one free oneself from the dictates of genetic, 
cultural and social predispositions (including conditioning); and so on. 
As I have discussed previously, such a theory and the models 
that accompany it would enable new and improved practices to be 
invented and refined. It would transform the field of spiritual and 
contemplative practices into a set of technologies. In the process, 
practices would be shorn of spiritual and religious trappings. Practices 
would be optimized so that they are able to produce capacities such as 
awakening, enlightenment, and self-evolution in the most efficient and 
effective ways. 
These practices and states would no longer be associated only 
with religious and spiritual traditions. Instead, they would be seen as 
potentials in all human beings that exist because of the particular way in 
which the human brain and psychology are organised. 
As happened soon after other domains of human experience were 
first subsumed into science, the techniques embodied in these practices 
would likely undergo rapid technological development. And just as other 
technologies are continually improved and optimized, so too would 
these psycho-technologies. 
At about this time, I came across an advertisement for a group in 
Canberra that called itself 'The School for Self Knowledge'. The 
advertisement invited people to participate in a series of lessons about 
the meaning of human existence and associated issues. No background 
was provided about the history of the group or the sources of the ideas 
that it presented. However, given my goals and interests, I had to go and 
find out if they knew anything that could help me to achieve my goals. 
I went to the School for Self Knowledge regularly for two years. 
Early on, I recognised that some of the ideas it presented were 
unmistakably Gurdjieffian. But other ideas were not. They taught a 
simple practice that they called 'Being here now'. It involved relaxing 
and giving surrendered attention to each of the senses in turn. During the 
practice, if you found that you were thinking or emoting at any time, you 
returned your attention back to the sensations. The practice had the 
effect of stilling the mind and bringing the practitioner into the present. 

 
Working on Awakening 
 
 
185 
 
I already had an effective meditation practice and had developed 
the ability to come into the present at will in the midst of ordinary life. 
But the school held out the promise of other, deeper practices if you 
continued with them. 
I found the lessons useful. Irrespective of the justification they 
gave for the ideas they presented, the ideas were interesting to 
contemplate. I would sit in the lessons in a state of presence, and reflect 
on what they had to say. 
Gradually, I began to see that common principles underlay the 
practices that I used, the practices that they advocated, and others that I 
had read about. I began to make progress in developing a model that 
could explain objectively, non-spiritually, how these kinds of practices 
produced particular psychological effects, including awakening and 
presence. 
Eventually I realized why it was that when I looked up into 
leafless elm trees and attempted to see them in 3D, I would come into 
the present in spacious awareness. In order to see the trees in 3D, I had 
to relax and still my mind. I had to give bare, surrendered attention to 
the branches. When I looked with a still mind, things popped out in 3D. 
Colours, shapes, and textures were more vivid. The whole processing 
power of my mind was focused only on sensing. None was taken up 
with thinking. Consequently, my awareness was more spacious, and my 
perceptions were more detailed and vivid. I knew the meaning of the 
statement: "Be still and know that 'I am'." 
I noticed that when I came into the present at will, my mind was 
still. I was looking without thought or judgment. This is what I mean 
when I refer to 'bare attention' and 'surrendered attention'. I also 
noticed that when I started thinking, my spacious awareness contracted 
down, and I became embedded or absorbed in thought. I was no longer 
in spacious presence. 
It became obvious to me that similar principles were responsible 
for the effects of the school's 'being here now' practice, and many 
others I had read about. Giving bare, surrendered attention to sensations, 
and bringing attention back to them whenever you realize that you are 
re-embedded in thought or feeling, will still the mind. This stillness of 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
186 
 
mind will occur whether the focus is on sensations of the breath, feelings 
in one's legs, sensations within your head, the feelings of air against 
your skin, or any other sensations, including sensations that are 
imagined or visualized. 
The key is this: humans can come into the present if they rest 
attention on something that occupies and attracts their attention, but that 
does not itself evoke thinking or feeling. By giving attention to 
something that does not itself evoke thinking or feeling, an individual is 
able to rest attention on it for a longer period without interruption, and 
the more still the mind will become. 
A related form of practice is to begin by surrendering all goals, 
intentions, and motivations. Then, when one finds oneself re-embedded 
in thought or feeling, one returns to the surrendered, intentionless state. 
And so on. When one is surrendered, thoughts and feelings will tend not 
to arise. The mind will become still. This approach can often prevent re-
embedding more effectively than can the method of resting bare 
attention on sensations. This is because it goes beyond occupying 
attention with an alternative to thoughts and feelings. Instead, the 
intentions and motivations that would otherwise generate thoughts and 
feelings are dropped. 
These two methods can be combined in various ways. 
It is also worth emphasising that both these methods utilize the 
fundamental principle that I have described previously as being one of 
the pillars of meditation practice: when one finds that one has become 
re-embedded in thought or feeling, one moves one's attention gently and 
non-judgementally back to attention and/or surrender. Done repeatedly, 
this will still the mind and strengthen the capacity to dis-embed and to 
remain dis-embedded. 
Increasingly, I came to understand that these principles underlay 
many of the practices that had been found to be capable of training the 
ability to enter spacious presence on an ongoing basis. When I examined 
other methods, such as the use of mantras, it was generally easy to see 
how they produced their effects. The use of mantras, for example, can 
exclude thinking by fully occupying attention while also providing an 
'inert' stimulus. 

 
Working on Awakening 
 
 
187 
 
Progressively, I integrated these experiences and insights into a 
scientific model of the practices and the states they could produce. 
Initially, when I learned how to come into spacious awareness at will, I 
was unaware of how I achieved this. I did not know consciously what 
my mind or body was doing when I underwent this change of state. But 
my model building had now provided me with an understanding of what 
was going on. 
This conscious understanding enabled me to work out how to 
modify what I was doing in order to enhance its effectiveness. It also led 
me to develop a general understanding of spiritual practices, to see their 
common features, to distinguish between elements of practices that 
contributed to their beneficial effect and elements that were just spiritual 
window-dressing and that could be dispensed with, and to identify how 
practices could be improved and optimized. 
I put these insights to work in my evolutionary theorizing. The 
model I had constructed had important implications for the design of 
practices that would enable individuals to become self-evolving. In 
particular, from my own experience and from the predictions of the 
models, it was clear that in a state of spacious awareness, an individual 
was dis-embedded from and non-attached to thoughts and feelings. In 
such an awakened state, the individual experienced their thoughts and 
feelings as objects that arose in their awareness and then dissipated. 
Thoughts and feelings were now objects in the same sense that external 
phenomena often tend to be objects in our visual awareness—we can 
give them attention if we choose to, or take our attention away from 
them. Whether we become embedded in them is a matter of choice. 
Once we become non-attached to thought and emotions, they no 
longer control our behaviour. They do not automatically contract our 
awareness. If we choose to, we can watch them arise and then dissipate. 
In an awakened state, we can remain in spacious awareness, no longer 
jerked around by thinking and feeling. This enables us to choose 
consciously to move at right angles to our emotional predispositions, if 
we decide it is appropriate to do so. 
This is the central capacity needed to become a self-evolving 
being. One must be able to free oneself from the dictates of one's 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
188 
 
genetic, cultural, and social past, including from one's conditioning. 
This frees the self-evolving being to do whatever is required to satisfy 
the demands of future evolution. Instead of being continually waylaid by 
emotions and other predispositions established by past evolution, the 
self-evolving being can behave in whatever ways are necessary for 
survival and thrival into the future. As circumstances change and change 
again, such individuals can continually adapt and evolve their behaviour. 
Developing these capacities is essential if an individual is to 
pursue evolutionary goals successfully. As I have mentioned, it is not 
enough to develop the ability to construct and use complex models to 
identify what one must do to achieve evolutionary goals. Higher 
cognition is not sufficient. One must also have the psychological 
capacity to actually implement the required actions, despite the fact that 
they may conflict with the individual's pre-existing genetic, cultural, and 
social predispositions and conditioning. 
In addition to freeing themselves from conflicting 
predispositions, self-evolving individuals must also intentionally 
develop ways to find motivation and satisfaction in whatever they need 
to do to achieve their evolutionary goals. The capacity to enter presence 
at will is central to achieving this. Presence and awakening are the royal 
road to finding enjoyment in whatever one chooses to do. 
Individuals can use an ability to manage their emotions and 
motivations in order to support their pursuit of evolutionary goals. At 
present, most individuals are able to use their control over their body to 
adopt a physical posture that is conducive to undertaking a particular 
task. Self-evolving individuals are also able to adopt an emotional 
posture that provides the energy and motivation needed for particular 
pro-evolutionary tasks.  
Presence also facilitates the use of additional techniques such as 
re-conditioning oneself, re-framing one's perspectives, and using 
visualization methods, including active imagination. By employing these 
kinds of approaches, individuals can develop the ability to align all their 
psychological goals with evolutionary goals and continue to do this as 
circumstances change. Those who do not will continue to spend their 

 
Working on Awakening 
 
 
189 
 
lives pursuing proxies for past evolutionary success that may have been 
rendered maladaptive by changed circumstances. 
With these capacities, self-evolving beings who pursue 
evolutionary goals never have to be psychological altruists or 
psychologically self-sacrificing. 
I developed these ideas in greater detail in an academic paper 
published in 2001, titled 'Future Psychological Evolution.'11 
After two years, I left the School for Self Knowledge. I had 
undertaken some research into its history, and discovered where most of 
its ideas and approaches came from. They had an interesting backstory. 
Initially, their main influence was the work of the Russian thinker Pyotr 
Ouspensky who had been a follower of Gurdjieff. After leaving Russia 
following the revolution, he taught Gurdjieffian ideas in England for 
many years and attracted a large following. He was an exceptional 
writer, and produced the most well-known, popularized account of 
Gurdjieff's early teachings.12 
But Ouspensky himself never seemed to really 'get' the core of 
the teaching. He was very much intellectually orientated, and seemed to 
think that awakening could be understood and achieved intellectually. 
He never appeared to fully realize that Gurdjieff's teachings were 
primarily about attaining new psychological capacities and different 
states of consciousness, not about new ideas. It was not possible to think 
one's way into these higher states. In fact, they necessitated the stilling 
of one's mind and becoming less attached and identified with ideas and 
thinking. Ultimately, for the new kind of human being that Gurdjieff 
pointed to, it was the stilled mind that would take control of thinking, 
deciding when thinking would be utilised, and for what purpose. 
However, Ouspensky was not the only person or group to 
influence the School for Self Knowledge. When Ouspensky died in 
1947, he left his followers without a leader. Perhaps more significantly, 
he also left them without a comprehensive set of explicit awakening 
practices. This led some of his more resourceful followers to travel the 
 
11 Stewart (2001) - see References 
12 Ouspensky (1949) - see References 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
190 
 
world to find suitable practices that had been developed by other 
contemplative and religious systems. Apparently, one persistent group 
encountered practitioners of Advaita Vedanta on the banks of the 
Ganges River in India, and thought that they had found what they were 
looking for. This group passed their discoveries on to the couple who 
had founded the School for Self Knowledge in Canberra. 
Eventually, I discovered that the founders of the school had 
formed close links with a particular high-ranking Vedanta teacher/leader 
in India. Each year, the leaders of the school went to India to visit him. 
Soon after I discovered this, the school announced that students who had 
been with the school for as long as I, were invited to undertake some 
kind of initiation ceremony. Apparently, this involved making various 
commitments, including agreeing to tithe one's income for the benefit of 
the school. The leaders of the school began to refer to the Indian Advaita 
Vedanta teacher as 'His Holiness'. That was enough for me. They seem 
to have misunderstood completely Gurdjieff's ideas and Advaita 
Vedanta. I wished them the best of luck, and left. 
During the next few years, I continued with my meditation and 
awakening practices, and experimented with trying to improve them in 
various ways. In order to remind myself to wake up often throughout my 
working day, I used my email system to automatically send me 
messages. I also put statements and relevant quotes from the traditions 
on my screen saver, and used events that recurred during a normal day at 
work as reminders to wake up. For example, I used work meetings as a 
reminder to come into the present and remain present. It was fun to find 
that I was often the only person who was awake during a meeting, in 
uncontracted awareness. Of course, if you are asleep and embedded in 
thoughts and feelings, you will be oblivious to whether others are awake 
or asleep. 
I found that being present when interacting with others made me 
considerably more aware of their reactions and non-verbal behaviours. I 
noticed far more about their emotional states and motivations. I could 
put these additional insights to work in achieving whatever goals I had. I 
got even better at manipulating meetings. I also found that when I was 
present, my thinking was often clearer, sharper, and more insightful. 

 
Working on Awakening 
 
 
191 
 
This was particularly the case if I had been under pressure and was 
somewhat stressed. 
However, I did not have any significant emotional or other 
psychological challenges at the time. Both my work and family life were 
easy, and I was generally happy. I was very good at using my 
intelligence to control my environment and avoid difficulties. My 
evolutionary theorizing was going well. I was manipulating my work 
demands successfully so that I had plenty of time to do what really 
mattered, and my wife and daughters seemed happy and well. 
I did not have any particular fears or traumatic experiences. 
However, my work did require me to do things that many would find 
stressful and challenging. For example, as mentioned, a central 
requirement of my job was to develop and then present the 
Government's case to argumentative arbitration tribunals. However, I 
tended to enjoy this. 
Furthermore, I was obviously left-brain dominant, and somewhat 
stunted emotionally. Consequently, I tended not to be beset by strong 
negative emotions. Of course, this had disadvantages as well as 
advantages. As we shall see, emotional functioning plays a significant 
role in the development of metasystemic cognition. In part, my 
experimentation with meditation had originally been motivated by the 
goal of becoming more aware of my emotions, and using them for 
cognitive purposes (for example, emotions utilize pattern recognition 
capacities, which are important for the functioning of higher cognition). 
In retrospect, however, it is clear that my ability to manoeuvre 
around difficulties also had downsides. I have mentioned that my refusal 
to accept promotion to the level of Senior Executive had enabled me to 
spend much more time doing my evolutionary work. Furthermore, it 
enabled me to avoid the stress that I would have encountered as a 
perfectionist doing a job that could not be done to my standards in a 
reasonable time frame.  
However, if I had taken the promotion, I would have been forced 
to confront my perfectionist demons. I would have had no option but to 
use presencing techniques in order to fully accept and surrender to the 
negative feelings that would have initially been generated by being 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
192 
 
forced to compromise my standards. Without the time to re-write the 
work of everyone in my Branch, I would have had to deal with being 
responsible for work that I knew to be incompetent. I had successfully 
avoided what would otherwise have been a powerful driver of my 
further development.

 
193 
 
16. 
 
 
 
More Publications and More Awakening 
 
In 2004, I came across printing-on-demand as an effective and cheap 
method of making Evolution's Arrow available in book form through 
Amazon and other online booksellers. Using this system would enable 
hard copies of the book to be distributed internationally. I got hold of 
relevant software, typeset the book, designed a cover, and uploaded it to 
the print-on-demand provider. Under this system, when someone 
ordered a copy of Evolution's Arrow from Amazon, Amazon placed an 
order for one copy with the provider, and they printed a single copy of 
the book using an electronic file.  
My wife and I had begun to go on some overseas trips now that 
our daughters were old enough to look after themselves. We were in 
Hanoi when I asked her to wait while I went into an internet café to 
check whether Evolution's Arrow had yet been made available on 
Amazon. I found that not only was it there, but it was the highest selling 
book at that time on Amazon. I was sure that this was a mistake. 
Then when I checked my emails, I found one from Michael 
Dowd, an American popularizer of an evolutionary worldview. His 
email praised Evolution's Arrow enthusiastically and indicated that he 
had just recommended it strongly to the thousands of subscribers to his 
newsletter. This explained the large number of sales on Amazon that 
day, and why they fell off a cliff very soon after. 
I was to get to know Michael over the coming months and years. 
He described himself as America's evolutionary evangelist. Together 
with his partner Connie Barlow, he travelled the United States in a 
campervan, giving talks about an evolutionary worldview, mostly to 
church groups. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
194 
 
Broadly, Michael set out to re-interpret religious teachings from 
an evolutionary perspective. In his talks, he demonstrated that far from 
undermining religious beliefs, an evolutionary worldview could enrich 
and deepen them. For example, he argued that to live 'in right 
relationship' with God equated to living in right relationship with the 
whole of reality. This in turn entailed living in an environmentally 
sustainable way, and living in alignment with the trajectory of evolution. 
Soon after his initial contact, Michael told me that the 
evolutionary vision outlined in Evolution's Arrow had inspired him to 
organise a meeting to discuss and promote the evolutionary worldview it 
gave rise to. He said that he would be able to make sure that the meeting 
was attended by leading academic evolutionary scientists. He would also 
invite spiritual progressives and other progressive thought leaders who 
had begun to consider an evolutionary worldview. He hoped that I 
would be able to join the meeting, but if I could not, he would proceed 
with it anyway in 2005. 
Taking a couple of weeks off work (officially) was not a 
problem, and I thought that it would be an interesting experience, 
whoever turned up. I had to go. 
The meeting, now referred to as the Evolutionary Salon, took 
place in May 2005 in California. The leading evolutionary scientists that 
Michael invited had agreed to attend initially, but all dropped out as the 
Salon approached. This was not because Michael lacked influence 
amongst evolutionary scientists. As I increasingly discovered, Michael 
had knocked on the door of the most prominent evolutionary scientists in 
America, and had generally impressed them with his knowledge, 
enthusiasm, and authenticity. However, it was becoming clear that the 
Salon would not be anything like a traditional scientific conference. This 
appeared to worry the academics. One of the greatest fears amongst 
academic scientists is that their work will be seen to be associated with 
fringe ideas and crack-pot science. It was much safer for them to avoid 
these kinds of risks by cancelling their attendance. 
The Salon was a fascinating experience. 
My main goal for the Salon had been to meet academic scientists 
and discuss with them the evolutionary theories that I had published. I 

 
More Publications and More Awakening 
 
 
195 
 
wanted to know what they thought about my ideas and the reasons they 
had for accepting or rejecting them. It was not that I wanted reassurance 
about my theories. By then, I was confident about the novelty and the 
importance of my ideas. However, if any individual scientist rejected my 
ideas, I wanted to know in detail the reasons. This would enable me to 
design strategies to overcome any resistance to my theories among 
evolutionary scientists. 
I knew that an evolutionary worldview was dead in the water if 
the science that underpinned it had not received mainstream support. 
This was the case irrespective of the validity of the science from which it 
was derived. Any attempt to publicize an evolutionary perspective that 
had significant and controversial implications for humanity would 
immediately attract the obvious questions: does mainstream evolutionary 
science accept the theories on which the worldview is based? If not, how 
can you expect an educated public to take your proposed worldview 
seriously? Before you seek public support and acceptance, should you 
not first get the acceptance of the relevant scientific community?  
I spent years attempting to do the scientific work myself because 
evolutionary science had failed to produce the requisite 'big picture' 
understanding of evolution.  
I was primarily interested in evolutionary science because of its 
ability to answer vital questions about the sense and significance of 
human existence. I saw its enormous potential to answer fundamental 
questions about human existence: What are we? In what ways should we 
evolve ourselves psychologically? How should we live our lives? How 
should we organise ourselves socially and politically? For what 
purposes? And so on. 
However, evolutionary science had failed to produce the 
foundations needed to support an evolutionary worldview. 
Consequently, I had to develop them myself. There was no alternative. I 
had to go through the laborious process of writing up my evolutionary 
insights in the arcane form required for scientific papers, replete with 
scholarly citations of the relevant literature. Considerable time and effort 
were necessary to dress up my papers so that they looked as if they met 
all the requirements of academic papers. I have continued this strategy 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
196 
 
until now, slowly but surely building the scientific support needed to 
provide the foundations for an evolutionary worldview. 
When the evolutionary scientists pulled out of the Evolutionary 
Salon, I could no longer pursue what had been my main goal. But this 
freed me to relax and enjoy the show. It was an interesting week, full of 
interactions with fascinating people. Some of America's leading spiritual 
and social progressives participated in the Salon.  
The Salon did not adopt the standard format in which presenters 
delivered their prepared papers to an audience. Instead, it utilized less 
structured processes designed to facilitate collective intelligence and 
creativity, such as 'Open Space' and 'World Café'. 
However, although these processes were effective at encouraging 
collective participation, they did not tend to produce systematic 
intellectual engagement. A good time was had by all, but heavy-duty 
thinking was rarely evoked. 
This was not due to any failing of the collective processes that 
were employed. Instead, it was due to the nature of the majority of the 
participants.  
Speaking somewhat metaphorically, the attendees tended to be 
'heart' rather than 'head' orientated; 'right-brain dominant' rather than 
'left-brain dominant'; 'feeling' rather than 'thinking' in the Myers-
Briggs framework; 'Green' rather than 'Orange' in the terminology of 
Spiral Dynamics; humanities-orientated rather than science-based; 
postmodern rather than modernist; and so on. The exodus of the 
scientists had unbalanced the composition of the Salon. 
Consequently, the Salon did not stimulate me to have any new 
'big picture' insights into large-scale evolutionary processes and their 
implication for humanity. Furthermore, even though everyone was very 
nice and positive about my book Evolution's Arrow, most did not 
actually understand its central themes. Generally, this was not because 
of any lack of intellectual capacity. Rather, it was due to a lack of 
motivation. 
Although many participants seemed unaware of this, the ideas 
they found interesting were those with implications that were uplifting 
and inspiring to them. For them, Evolution's Arrow had a very inspiring 

 
More Publications and More Awakening 
 
 
197 
 
and positive message for humanity. Evolution has a direction, and it is 
towards increasing cooperation and integration. The history of life on 
Earth is not about destructive competition, but about increasing 
integration. How good is that? What more would you need to know? 
Let's celebrate! 
However, the mechanisms that evolution has had to use to 
overcome barriers to cooperation are not so inspiring and uplifting. As 
detailed in Evolution's Arrow and earlier in this book, complex 
cooperation evolves only when powerful managers emerge that use their 
power to punish free-riders and reward cooperation. When they first 
emerge, proto-managers tend to predate upon and exploit the proto-
organisations that they later come to manage. 
These processes have to be understood in detail if one is to apply 
them to the future evolution of humanity. Such an understanding is 
essential if humanity is to achieve the next great cooperative 
evolutionary transition on earth: the emergence of a unified, sustainable, 
and highly-evolvable global society. In order to accomplish this 
transition successfully, a deep understanding of the complex 
evolutionary dynamics that are needed to enable these kinds of 
transitions is essential. Dispassionate knowledge about how the relevant 
systems need to be organised and constrained is absolutely necessary. 
This heavy cognitive lifting might not be inspiring and uplifting to heart-
orientated people, but the survival and future evolution of life on Earth 
depend on it. 
Nevertheless, the Salon's right-brained bias did have a useful 
effect on my evolutionary work. It got me to focus more on how the new 
emerging evolutionary worldview could be promoted and publicized. 
This was a major preoccupation of many of the participants. They were 
very interested in how the power of the worldview could be conveyed 
through documentaries, movies, computer games, music, and other 
media.  
A particular focus was on approaches that could evoke what we 
referred to as 'evolutionary epiphanies'. These are intense experiences in 
which individuals suddenly integrate the various elements of an 
evolutionary worldview into a coherent whole, and realize in a rush of 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
198 
 
insight that they, themselves, are important participants in the large-scale 
evolutionary processes that they are now envisaging. Typically, this 
produces a shift in identity—the individuals no longer experience 
themselves as isolated individuals, but as integral and active participants 
in the evolutionary process itself. 
These discussions at the Salon stimulated my next major 
evolutionary project: I decided to write The Evolutionary Manifesto. It 
was intended to be the evolutionary counterpart of Karl Marx's 
Communist Manifesto, only more successful. 
The Communist Manifesto was communism's call to action. It 
identified where human societies were currently deficient and how they 
needed to be fundamentally re-organised for the benefit of all. The 
Communist Manifesto appealed not just to the intellect, but also to 
commonly-held values and emotions. This was consistent with its goal 
of encouraging revolutions aimed at transforming human societies for 
the benefit of all. It was designed to motivate powerful action. It was not 
just a set of ideas, not just candy for the brain. 
I was soon given the opportunity to work full time on writing 
The Evolutionary Manifesto: In June 2007, I gratefully accepted a 
voluntary retrenchment package from the Department of Industrial 
Relations. This gave me a lifetime superannuation pension adjusted for 
cost-of-living increases, the cash value of my accumulated leave 
entitlements, and a substantial tax-free lump sum severance payment. 
Given that our daughters were now well-educated, capable, and 
independent women, my wife decided that these major changes signalled 
that it was a good time for her to leave. 
I had been happily married for 30 years and had just assumed 
that the marriage would continue until one of us died. But my wife 
decided that she wanted to come out from under my shadow and paddle 
her own canoe. Once I had thought about it, I could see the good sense 
behind what she had decided. If I had been giving her independent 
advice, I would have recommended that she end the marriage, go out on 
her own, and run her own show. 
Under Australian divorce laws, my ex-wife got half of 
everything, including half the indexed pension. But my share is enough 

 
More Publications and More Awakening 
 
 
199 
 
to enable me to live comfortably for as long as I survive, provided I am 
frugal and live within my limited means. 
At 54, I was single and retired from paid work. I moved to 
Melbourne and bought a small apartment overlooking Melbourne's 
Chinatown. I had found during travels in Asia that I loved the energy 
and dynamism at the center of a large city. 
I resolved never to work for money again, even if I was paid full 
time but only had to work part-time, as before. I received several offers 
for contract work in the early years following my retirement, and 
happily turned them all down. 
It is now 17 years since I have done any paid work, and counting. 
For 17 years, I have been a full-time evolutionary activist, pursuing the 
goal of contributing to the advancement of the evolutionary process on 
Earth. 
In 2008, I completed the Evolutionary Manifesto and a 
companion document, 'Strategies for Advancing Evolution'. Together, 
they represented my intentional attempt to promote evolutionary 
activism and to identify associated strategies. These included strategies 
for actualizing the next great evolutionary transitions on Earth. Foremost 
amongst these transitions were the emergence of a unified and highly-
evolvable global entity and the development and spread of metasystemic 
cognition, ultimately enabling an evolutionary awakening and a Second 
Enlightenment. 
I made the Evolutionary Manifesto freely available on its own 
website (evolutionarymanifesto.com). Together with Strategies for 
Advancing Evolution, I also published it as a cheap Amazon Kindle 
book. Hundreds have subscribed to occasional emails about progress in 
spreading the evolutionary worldview. However, the great majority of 
these tend to be predominately 'heart-orientated' rather than either 
'head-orientated' or a synthesis of both left and right-brain orientations. 
In the meantime, I had written a paper on the future evolution of 
consciousness. It was published in the Journal of Consciousness Studies 
in 2007. I delivered presentations about the main themes of the paper at 
the Towards a Science of Consciousness conferences in Tucson in 2008 
and in Hong Kong in 2009. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
200 
 
The goal of the paper was to develop a model of brain processes 
that can explain why meditation-like processes are able to produce a 
variety of modified states of consciousness that can be useful in 
particular circumstances. This model was able to explicate the effects of 
meditation without resorting to the religious and supernatural 
explanations given by the spiritual and contemplative traditions. The 
paper uses the model to identify how to improve existing meditation-like 
processes for particular purposes, and provides the foundations for the 
development of an array of psycho-technologies optimized for various 
purposes.13 
The paper pointed out that this proposed transition in the study of 
meditation-like practices is analogous to the transitions that have 
occurred previously in many domains: folk theories and religious 
explanations of phenomena are replaced by a scientific approach. This, 
in turn, often drives the explosive development of technologies that 
make use of the new scientific knowledge. 
Ultimately, the successful undertaking of this transition in 
relation to spiritual experiences and practices has the potential to enable 
individuals to significantly increase their evolvability: It will enable 
them to adopt at will whatever state of conscious functioning is optimal 
for meeting whatever challenges and circumstances they are facing. 
The paper gave examples of how its model of conscious 
functioning could be used to generate new psycho-technologies. For 
example, the paper used its model to identify how particular states could 
enhance cognitive processes. In particular, it showed how a state in 
which consciousness is not embedded in thoughts and feelings could 
facilitate access to higher cognitive capacities. 
In a state in which conscious attention is not contracted down 
and filled with thinking and feeling, consciousness is able to recruit 
relevant resources from the unconscious mind. Freed from 
embeddedness in thought, it can recruit intuitions and also access 
pattern-recognition capacities. These capacities are essential if cognition 
is to be able to understand and build models of complex phenomena. 
 
13 Stewart (2007) - see References for full citation 

 
More Publications and More Awakening 
 
 
201 
 
Complex dynamical systems typically include processes that can only be 
understood and represented in mental models as patterns. 
Analytical/rational cognition is very limited in its ability to identify and 
use these complex patterns in its thinking. If complex patterns are to be 
integrated into cognition and its mental models, it is essential that they 
can be perceived as a whole. This cannot be achieved by analysis. 
This ability to use states of consciousness that can be accessed by 
meditation-like processes can have the same kind of cognitive benefits 
as 'sleeping on' a problem or relaxing in a shower. These activities tend 
to still the mind and disengage the individual from embeddedness in 
analytical thought and emotion. They facilitate access to intuitions and 
pattern-recognition capacities from the unconscious mind. 
However, meditation-like practices have the advantage that they 
can train the ability to access these capacities at will, as needed. They 
enable conscious control and optimization of conscious functioning. 
Ultimately, they enable the technologizing of consciousness. 
The paper also explored how meditation-like technologies could 
be used to become self-evolving and to see one's thinking and feelings 
as object. 
My participation in the Tucson conference in 2008 provided me 
with an important new piece of the puzzle for technologizing 
meditation-like practices. Several workshops were conducted on the day 
preceding the formal opening of the conference. Always on the lookout 
for new approaches that I could use to recursively improve my models 
of meditation-like practices, I attended a workshop presented by Kleo 
Ormos. She guided participants in a number of powerful meditation 
practices. 
One particular approach that she used to deepen the effects of her 
practices required the practitioner to concentrate awareness on two or 
more sensations that are located apart in space. For example, one 
practice required the practitioner to concentrate on the sensations 
associated with their finger tips and also with those associated with the 
tips of their toes, both at the same time. This practice demands that the 
practitioner concentrate unwaveringly on the two sets of sensations. 
Doing so quickly stills the mind. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
202 
 
But she also incorporated into her practices an approach that was 
even more significant and valuable for my purposes. Kleo had 
specifically designed her practices so that they enable a practitioner to 
stay anchored in the present, after the formal 'sitting' practice is 
complete. Her practices were not directed only at producing awakening 
on the meditation cushion in a quiet and darkened room. Instead, they 
were intentionally designed to initiate and maintain awakening in the 
midst of ordinary life. 
Once practitioners have entered a meditative state, this design 
element requires them to rest concentrated attention on a source of 
sensation deep within their body. When the sitting meditation ends, 
practitioners begin to move around their environment and start to 
interact with others. However, all the while they are doing so, they are 
required to continue to rest part of their attention on those internal 
sensations. If they find at any time that they have become re-embedded 
in thought or feeling, they return attention again to the sensations, and so 
on. 
Importantly, when practitioners get up from their sitting 
meditation, the practice requires them to refrain from moving their full 
attention away from these internal sensations and onto aspects of their 
environment or onto thoughts or feelings. The natural tendency that we 
all have in these circumstances is to do just this. We tend to move our 
attention back out onto objects and events in the environment (or onto 
thoughts and feelings), become absorbed in them, and fall asleep again. 
But if we use Kleo's method, we must ensure that part of our 
attention remains anchored in our body. Part of our attention does not 
shift into the environment and away from the internal anchoring 
sensations. Instead, when we begin to re-engage with our external 
environment, we expand our attention out from its concentration on the 
anchoring sensations, without losing contact with those sensations. 
We are to become aware of our environment by expanding our 
awareness, not by shifting it. Furthermore, as with most meditation 
practices, if we find at any time that our full attention has moved out into 
our environment or become embedded in thought or emotion, we move 

 
More Publications and More Awakening 
 
 
203 
 
part of it back to the anchoring sensations within our body. And so on, 
and so on, repeatedly. 
I started to incorporate these elements into my awakening 
practices in the coming weeks. Soon, I began to realize that the 
awakening capacity that I had discovered while trying to solve Libby's 
tennis problem, was probably a diversion away from my primary goal. 
At the time, it seemed like a major advance. It enabled me to awaken to 
the present, at will. I could immerse myself in vivid, spacious awareness 
whenever I wanted. 
In this state, I tended to experience my environment, wherever I 
was, as if I were inside a magnificent cathedral (this, of course, was not 
just a coincidence—cathedrals are intentionally designed to still the 
mind and produce presence. The propensity of humans to experience 
vivid, spacious awareness has often been used to convince them of the 
existence of 'the divine'. But it is a capacity that all humans have, 
irrespective of whether or not any particular supernatural entity actually 
exists). 
However, being awake in a state of expanded awareness is not 
easy to maintain. If one's awareness is out in the external environment, 
it is particularly susceptible to being attracted to outside events. 
Attention will be very easily distracted. I had developed the ability to 
come into the present at will, but remaining there was a different matter 
entirely. I would continually find myself re-embedded in thoughts and 
feelings about aspects of my environment. 
In contrast, if part of one's attention is resting on sensations deep 
within the body, there is nothing within that attention that is likely to 
give rise to thoughts, feelings, or other distractions. It is relatively easy 
to give bare attention to inert, internal sensations and to maintain that 
attention. Even though the other part of this divided attention is directed 
outside the body in spacious awareness and is more susceptible to 
distraction, the part that is resting on inert, internal sensations acts as an 
anchor. 
The more that I practiced returning part of my attention to the 
anchoring sensations whenever I found that my consciousness had re-
embedded, the easier it became to remain anchored in the face of 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
204 
 
distractions. It strengthened the relevant 'muscles'. This was further 
facilitated if I surrendered to whatever arose, both internally and 
externally. Radical acceptance tended to lessen attachment to goals and 
intentions, further reducing the power of potential distractions. 
I continued with these improved meditation and awakening 
practices. Although I could enter a state of presence at will and was 
better at maintaining that state, I would still spend long periods during 
the day in contracted awareness, with attention absorbed in thinking or 
in talking with others. At least, this was the case until I had an 
extraordinary experience in September 2008. 
As was one of my habits at the time, I was sitting on a bench seat 
facing the fountain in the small park on the south side of Victoria's 
Parliament House. I had been reading and sunning myself, but decided it 
was time for my meditation practice. On this occasion, I had my eyes 
closed, with my attention concentrated on feelings inside the back of my 
head. These were the anchoring sensations that seemed to work best for 
me at the time. In a few minutes, my mind was still and peaceful. 
Suddenly, I was disturbed by a loud, grating noise inside my 
head. I had never experienced anything like this within my head before. 
Then I realized that the noise was not actually inside my head. In fact, it 
was the sound of one of Melbourne's trams crossing an intersection 
about 50 meters behind me. I relaxed again into peace and stillness. 
But I began to realize that the sensations associated with all my 
senses now seemed to arise within me. I maintained the state and opened 
my eyes. Now, I found that my mind was not distinguishing between 
objects that are normally experienced as being outside myself, and those 
that are normally experienced as being located within myself. 
My experience no longer appeared to be perceived from a 
particular point of view that was centered on my body and located at a 
particular position in space. All locations were now equal. They were 
not distinguished by where they were positioned relative to my location. 
Phenomena that arose within experience were no longer perceived from 
a perspective that originated from where my body was situated. 
It is very difficult to describe what I was experiencing. You have 
to have had such an experience yourself if you are to know precisely 

 
More Publications and More Awakening 
 
 
205 
 
what I am pointing to. But if you have had the experience, you will 
know immediately what I am trying to describe. The experience seemed 
to me to be what I had read about and heard others talk about as a 'non-
dual' awakening. In such an awakening, there is no separation between 
the 'I' and the external world. All is 'one'. There is just 'the whole'. 
I had heard a description of such an experience many years ago 
that now made sense: the individual reported going to sleep one night as 
normal. But when he awoke in the morning in his bedroom, he could not 
tell whether the knobs on the drawers of his dresser were looking at him, 
or whether he was looking at them. 
Adherents of spiritual traditions often refer to such an experience 
as a 'unitary experience' or an experience of 'oneness with the divine'. 
I found that philosopher Thomas Metzinger's book 'Being No 
One' provided an explanation that is far more simple, plausible, and 
capable of underpinning a science-based model of the phenomena: He 
pointed out that for us to be aware of an object or process, there must be 
a representation of that process in our consciousness. On this basis, if we 
are conscious of a sense of self that is experienced as separate from other 
objects in consciousness, then there must be a representation of our self 
in consciousness. He refers to this representation as a Phenomenal 
Model of the Self (PMS). On a similar basis, the fact that our conscious 
experience appears to be organised from a particular point of view is due 
to the presence in consciousness of a Phenomenal Model of the 
Intentionality Relation (PMIR).14 
This simple model can explain the nature of non-dual experience. 
It suggests that a non-dual experience arises when the PMS and the 
PMIR are dropped from consciousness. When this occurs, a person's 
conscious experience no longer includes awareness of the self and of its 
point of view. Their experience no longer distinguishes between self and 
other. 
In a sense, this involves going a step beyond what is achieved in 
a standard meditation practice. Typically, the meditator drops all 
attachment to thought and feeling. Since much of the bandwidth of their 
 
14 Metzinger (2003) - see References for full citation 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
206 
 
consciousness is no longer taken up with the conscious processing of 
thought and feeling, they experience spacious, expanded awareness. 
Objects in visual awareness, for example, are experienced vividly. 
Experience is not distracted or contracted down by thoughts or feelings 
that arise. 
After the dropping of thoughts and feelings, the next step in 
meditation beyond this would be to drop from consciousness 
representations of the self and its relationships with its environment. In 
Metzinger's terminology, the meditator drops attachment to their PMS 
and their PMIR. They enter a 'non-dual' experience. 
This simple model of meditation and consciousness can also 
account for other forms of conscious experience. As a fan of the sport of 
rugby league, the greatest game of all, I was intrigued to hear one of the 
great players describe how he experienced himself while playing. He 
said that as he was running across the field, ball in hand, deciding 
whether to pass the ball, or continue running with it, or kick it, he 
experienced himself and the other players from a point of view above his 
body. 
From this vantage point, he could look down and see where the 
players on the other team were positioned. Immediately, he could see his 
best option. This ability made him one of the 'all-time great' players. He 
was not particularly fast or strong, but his consciousness functioned in a 
way that more than compensated for these limitations. 
Other examples include drug-induced states. In effect, particular 
drugs can prevent the brain from maintaining awareness of a model of 
the self and a model of the point of view of the self. The dissolution of 
the model of the self can be experienced as dying. It probably is 
precisely what an individual might experience in some circumstances if 
they are actually dying. The dissolution of the internal model of the self 
is the ending of the feeling of 'I'. It is the end of the experience that 
there is a doer, including the experience that "I think, therefore I am". 
Fortunately, however, in the case of psychedelic experiences, the effect 
is usually temporary. 
Initially, the dissolution of the PMS and PMIR produces a non-
dual experience. As the effects of the drug diminish, this is followed by 

 
More Publications and More Awakening 
 
 
207 
 
a return to normal as the self-models are reinstated in consciousness, and 
individuals once again experience themselves as a self that is separate 
from the rest of what is experienced as reality. 
Psychedelics can also produce states of consciousness that put 
together the contents of consciousness from a point of view that is 
different from normal. It is easy to see how this could be experienced as 
an 'out of body' state, similar to the example I have given of the rugby 
league player. In such cases, the difference in point of view is a 
relatively simple product of how the contents of consciousness are 
organised. The normal point of view is constructed within the brain, and 
it can be put together differently, producing a different experience. 
These different states of consciousness are potentialities that all 
humans possess. They can be understood most simply in terms of 
science-based models. There is nothing intrinsically mystical and non-
materialistic about them. However, the world's spiritual and 
contemplative traditions provide a wide range of spiritual explanations 
and interpretations of the states. For example, many describe the non-
dual state as experiencing unity with the divine. Others suggest that it 
entails realizing your 'true' self, which is the ground of all and 
everything. And so on. 
Many of the traditions disagree with the interpretations of others. 
Wars have been fought over differences. 
However, a science-based approach strips the supernatural 
content from the interpretations and explanations of these states. It sets 
out to understand these experiences in terms of psychological and brain 
processes that science can recognise. As I have indicated, this has an 
enormous practical advantage over the stories told by spiritual and 
religious traditions. It produces models that have the potential to be 
tested against evidence and used to technologize these capacities. 
Models of the brain processes that produce these states can be 
used to identify practices that are more effective at producing them. We 
can use the models to try out variations of traditional practices in our 
heads and in actuality. Bringing these possibilities into the realm and 
methods of scientific inquiry enables their full potential to be explored 
systematically. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
208 
 
The spiritual traditions have passed on their practices 
successfully over many generations. This is no small achievement given 
that complex practices are likely to be degraded and modified 
unrecognisably as they pass through many hands and minds. However, 
this has been achieved at the cost of freezing the practices and 
preventing innovation and creativity. To ensure that the essential 
elements of the practices are preserved over the generations, they have 
been embedded in immutable traditions. The practices and their 
explanations became sacred, and were therefore protected from 
experimentation and tinkering. 
In order to survive, the practices that were frozen by tradition 
also had to be in forms that posed no threat to powerful authorities. 
Somewhat ironically, it was essential that they be preserved in forms 
that interest me the least, and not in forms that are of critical importance 
for the successful future evolution of humanity. The practices that were 
handed down unchanged over many generations were of little practical 
use in real-world activities. If the practices had been in a form that, for 
example, could be used to enhance effective agency in the world, they 
would have threatened the interests of the powerful. In order to protect 
their interests, the powerful would have tried to appropriate the practices 
to strengthen their power and to exclude their enemies from accessing 
them. 
In recent human history, those who were powerful in a particular 
region at a particular time did not last long. When rulers were inevitably 
overthrown, any practices and traditions that they sponsored were likely 
to be destroyed along with them, particularly if they were seen as a 
threat to the new rulers. In any given place on the surface of the planet, 
the powerful have been overthrown many, many times during the last 
5,000 years of human history and evolution. 
Arguably, if practices and their justifications were to survive 
throughout human history until the present, they had to be treated as 
immutably sacred, and also be in a form that could not enhance agency, 
particularly in war-like activities. Ideally, they needed to be preserved in 
isolated communities that were of no threat, such as in monasteries in 
unproductive, rugged, mountainous regions. Or in small, secret groups 

 
More Publications and More Awakening 
 
 
209 
 
within larger societies that were perceived as benign by the powerful 
(e.g., mystery schools). Right-hand path traditions that promoted 
surrender to the absolute rather than enhanced agency, were pre-adapted 
to survive. 
Gurdjieff suggested that the allegory of Noah's Ark contains a 
deeper message about the need to preserve spiritual practices and 
knowledge during 'dark ages' characterised by incessant warfare. The 
Ark is a metaphor for a small, isolated spiritual community that 
preserves what is valuable from destruction amidst the deluge—the 
continual war of all against all. 
The fact that practices have survived does not mean that it is 
because the practices and the beliefs that supported them are justified 
and valid. It is because they had characteristics that facilitated their 
survival. 
But the circumstances that stood in the way of using scientific 
methods to further develop and technologize practices that enhance 
agency in the world, apply no longer. The monasteries and mystery 
traditions have done their job. 
It is now safe to exploit the enormous potential of meditation-
like practices to enhance human functioning. 
The non-dual state that I experienced in 2008 did not come and 
go during the day. It seemed permanent. It was there before I went to 
sleep, and it was there when I awoke in the mornings. 
Abiding in nan-dual awareness was an extremely pleasant and 
peaceful state. Things just seemed to happen. I did not have to get 
involved in them or figure out what to do. Things seemed to work out 
well despite the absence of worry and protracted thinking. 
In retrospect, this was not surprising: my body-mind had 
accumulated a large store of learned behaviours that it could draw upon 
to have me behave appropriately in most situations. I did not have to get 
involved in deliberating about what I should do. I could rely on my prior 
conditioning and learned behaviours to initiate actions that were apt. 
This reminded me of an oft-repeated statement made by teachers in the 
School for Self Knowledge: if you are present, surrendered, and non-

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
210 
 
attached, you will spontaneously act in ways that are appropriate to the 
needs of the situation. 
For a week or so, I wandered happily around the streets of 
Melbourne in this state. I described it as being in 'la la' land. I was not 
permanently in the state of bliss that is often described by some spiritual 
traditions as accompanying awakening and enlightenment. But if I 
stayed in the state for the rest of my life, it would be a life of happiness 
and ease. 
If I was pursuing the right-hand path, I would have surrendered 
completely into the state for the rest of my life. There was nothing that I 
would have wanted to do in the world. And the non-dual state was 
perfect for not doing. 
But I was on the left-hand path. There were things in the world 
that I wanted to do. I was firmly into acting in the world. I had 
evolutionary goals, and I wanted to develop my capacities to achieve 
those goals. 
Happiness had never been my central objective. For individuals 
like me who were fortunate to be born in the 1950s in Australia, it was 
not a challenge at all to arrange your life so that you were happy. Free 
university education, plenty of well-paid jobs, cheap housing, no wars 
within Australia, steadily increasing economic prosperity, and so on. But 
from an evolutionary perspective, a happy life is not necessarily a good 
one. It will not always lead to survival and flourishing. 
So after about a week and a half, I decided to bring my period of 
persistent non-dual awakening to an end. But first, I wanted to test 
whether I could return to 'normal' and then get back into the non-dual 
state using the technique that I thought had taken me there originally. 
After returning to normal for a day or so, I began concentrating my 
attention on feelings at the back of my head, while surrendering and 
radially accepting all that arose in expanded awareness. After a couple 
of hours, I was back in persistent non-dual awakening. 
I stayed in that state for a few days until it was time to go to the 
annual conference of the Jean Gebser Society that was being held that 
year in Melbourne. In the 20th century, Gebser was one of the great 
explorers of the evolution of consciousness. Somewhat ironically, my 

 
More Publications and More Awakening 
 
 
211 
 
wish to participate in a conference about his ideas prompted me to 
abandon my exploration of persistent 'higher' levels of consciousness, at 
least for the time being. 
This experience played an important role in shaping my 
understanding of the evolutionary significance of the various states of 
consciousness that humans can enter. It is clear that humans have the 
potential to experience a variety of states of consciousness. Some of 
these states can enhance agency and adaptability in particular 
circumstances, while other states do so in different situations. Given my 
evolutionary goals, I had a particular interest in accessing states of 
consciousness that facilitated the development of higher levels of 
cognition, as well as a capacity for self-evolution. 
From the point of view of right-hand paths, surrendering into 
permanent non-dual awareness might be considered to be the ultimate 
goal—absorption into the absolute. But in my experience, it was not a 
useful state for many other purposes. In particular, I did not find it 
advantageous when I needed to achieve goals that required deep 
cognitive work and effective agency in the world. 
I reached the conclusion that evolvability would be maximized 
by developing the ability to enter whatever state of consciousness was 
optimal for achieving one's goals in whatever circumstances one faced. 
No individual state was beneficial in all circumstances. It was a matter 
of horses for courses. 
Consistent with this conclusion, I accepted that the non-dual state 
could be very useful in some circumstances. In particular, I decided that 
if I ever ended up decrepit, demented, and incontinent in a nursing home 
bed, with no hope of recovery, I would attempt to use my techniques to 
enter a persistent non-dual state. I would do the same if I was going to 
be tortured. This raised in my mind the iconic image of the Buddhist 
monk dousing himself with petrol on the steps of the American embassy 
in Saigon in the 1960s, setting himself on fire, and burning 
unflinchingly.  
Fortunately, I have not yet ended up in a nursing home or been 
tortured. But somewhat unfortunately, a decade or so later, I had an 
opportunity to put these strategies to a challenging test. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
212 
 
 
 

 
213 
 
17. 
 
 
 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic 
Cognition 
 
In 2009, I read a book review by Sara Ross in the Integral Leadership 
Review that drew my attention to an entirely new pathway for advancing 
the evolutionary process. Up until that point, the recursive improvement 
of my cognition and my drive to understand large-scale evolutionary 
processes and other complex phenomena had enabled me to develop 
metasystemic cognition. My evolutionary and psychological 
publications evidenced this. 
But at this time, my knowledge of metasystemic cognition was 
largely procedural, not declarative. 
As I mentioned earlier, procedural knowledge is the knowledge 
that enables us to exercise a skill successfully. It is knowledge of how to 
do things. It is generally unconscious, and we are unable to put 
procedural knowledge into words. If you have a good serve in tennis, 
you will likely be unaware of the actual muscle contractions and bodily 
movements that constitute your service action. 
In contrast, declarative knowledge is the conscious knowledge of 
facts, propositions, and analysable models. It is knowledge about things, 
and can be described in words. This enables declarative knowledge to be 
conveyed to others in writing or other forms of language. It can be 
taught explicitly. 
I had developed a comprehensive set of metasystemic cognitive 
skills that worked effectively for me. However, I did not have detailed 
declarative knowledge about those skills and what my metasystemic 
thinking entailed. Consequently, I could not explain comprehensively to 
others how to do what I did. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
214 
 
I was like champion tennis players who have a powerful and 
accurate serve but do not have a declarative model of the movements 
and actions they use to produce it. 
Through persistent practice and repetition, individuals can learn 
procedural knowledge that enables them to exercise skills with great 
ability. But this does not necessarily enable them to impart this 
knowledge to anyone else. Nor does it enable them to understand how 
their skill can be improved or adapted to novel circumstances. They 
generally need a declarative model for this. In part, this is why it is 
common in sports for a great player to be a poor coach. 
I knew that this lack of declarative knowledge about 
metasystemic cognition was a major impediment to achieving my 
evolutionary goals. To recap, my evolutionary theorizing demonstrated 
that the next great step in cognitive evolution in humans is the 
development of metasystemic cognition. First Enlightenment thinking 
and analytical/rational cognition began to spread widely a few hundred 
years ago, and powered the rise of science and technological 
development. However, this thinking is incapable of generating effective 
mental models of complex phenomena, including large-scale 
evolutionary processes. Unfortunately, most of reality is too complex to 
be understood by analytical/rational cognition. Science has not yet 
developed the capacity to understand and model complexity. 
This is one of the most serious challenges facing humanity: the 
existential threats that have the potential to end human civilization this 
century are too complex to be understood and overcome by 
analytical/rational cognition. The transition to metasystemic cognition is 
essential for understanding and embracing an evolutionary worldview 
and for enabling the survival and flourishing of humanity. 
Sara Ross' article reviewed Otto Laske's 'Manual of Dialectical 
Thought Forms'.15 Just reading the review itself got me extremely 
excited. It was clear from the outset that the Manual contained the 
declarative knowledge that I was hoping either to find or to develop 
myself. The Manual identified 28 'thought forms' or 'movements in 
 
15 Ross (2009) - see References for full citation 

 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
215 
 
thought' that thinkers need to use to build effective models of complex 
phenomena. 
The thought forms were grouped by the Manual into four classes 
or Quadrants: those dealing with the context of the phenomena that are 
being modelled; those dealing with the processes that constitute the 
phenomena; those dealing with the evolving relationships between the 
processes; and those that deal with the phenomena as 'systems-in-
transformation'. 
These four categories of thought forms identify what is typically 
left out of the models developed by analytical/rational thinkers. Their 
models tend to focus down on some limited and relatively isolated 
phenomena that they seek to understand. As such, their models tend to 
ignore the context in which these limited phenomena are embedded. 
This approach works well in simple physical phenomena where laws 
apply irrespective of the specific nature of the context in which the 
simple phenomena are situated. However, this kind of approach often 
fails to model complex systems where the context is highly relevant to 
how the phenomena unfold. 
The mental models of analytical/rational thinkers also tend to 
ignore the fact that all objects/things in the world are actually processes, 
not objects with fixed attributes. On a time scale that is sufficiently long, 
even mountain ranges are processes, not objects with fixed attributes. 
Everything in reality evolves and changes ceaselessly. 
The third class of thought forms that tend to be ignored by 
analytical/rational thinkers are those that recognise that processes that 
constitute complex phenomena are often related to one another, and tend 
to coevolve through time as the phenomena unfold dynamically. 
Finally, the 'systems-in-transformation' thought forms recognise 
that when the context, process, and relationship thought forms are put 
together appropriately, the resultant models can capture the reality that 
complex phenomena generally constitute systems in transformation as 
they evolve and coevolve. 
In these ways, the four Quadrants of thought forms identify what 
tends to be left out by analytical/rational thinking. The mental models 
generated by analytical/rational thinkers tend instead to produce 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
216 
 
mechanistic models. Analytical/rational thinkers build models that are 
generally constituted by objects (or sometimes by simple processes) that 
have fixed attributes. These attributes tend to be unchanged as the 
objects or simple processes interact according to fixed rules or laws. 
Analytical/rational models can only build and mentally simulate 
models that are analysable, and that therefore can be 'thought through'. 
The paradigmatic example is the Newtonian model of particles of matter 
that interact like billiard balls, in circumstances where the context can be 
ignored and the particles do not change their attributes endogenously as 
processes, or as a result of interactions between them. 
One way of experiencing the fundamental differences between 
analytical/rational thinking and metasystemic cognition is to notice the 
kind of world that is built by analytical/rational thinking, and to compare 
it with the complexity of most of the rest of reality. 
The built environment in which humans live has been conceived 
and designed by analytical/rational thinking. Consequently, it is 
comprised of structures and processes that are capable of being analysed 
and thought through. Humans have little ability to incorporate complex 
phenomena into their built environment. Whatever we build must be 
understood by analytical/rational cognition and be intelligible to it. 
With this in mind, consider the center of any large modern city. 
The structures you see will commonly exhibit large, flat surfaces that 
meet at right angles. Box-like shapes and straight lines characterise 
almost everything you can see. Motor vehicles are machines in which 
parts with fixed attributes interact in predetermined ways to cause the 
vehicle to fulfill designed functions. 
Now compare this with what you experience when you walk 
through a mature forest. Right angles, boxes, and flat surfaces are 
extremely rare. Any organisms that you see are organically organised, 
not machine-like. Almost anywhere you look closely, you see a buzzing 
confusion of interaction at various scales of space and time. Using 
analytical/rational cognition, you will be unable to think through the 
ceaseless change going on around you, and will be unable to predict how 
it will unfold through time. 

 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
217 
 
Most of the reality you encounter in a mature forest cannot be 
understood using mechanistic mental models. More generally, you will 
find that most phenomena in the world cannot be understood adequately 
and modelled by analytical/rational thinking or by the science that it 
powers. 
By identifying the thought forms that tend to be missing from 
analytical/rational thinking, the Manual of Dialectical Thought Forms 
provides an invaluable aid for scaffolding metasystemic cognition in 
analytical/rational thinkers. These missing thought forms identify the 
additional aspects that the analytical/rational thinker needs to include in 
their mental modelling if it is to represent complex phenomena 
adequately. The relevant thought forms identify the aspects of 
phenomena that the thinker must give attention to if they are to 
understand complexity. 
To build a capacity for metasystemic cognition, an 
analytical/rational thinker needs to practice making use of the thought 
forms to identify where their mechanistic models are deficient. Then, 
they need to move their attention to these absences in their models and 
to remedy what is deficient. More specifically, they need to consider 
whether any relevant context needs to be included in their modelling; 
whether particular objects within their models might be better-
represented as processes; whether it is useful to include co-evolving 
relationships in the models; and whether it is useful to model the 
phenomena as systems-in-transformation. 
Of course, this does not mean that a thinker needs to use each 
and every thought form to build each and every model. As a general rule 
of thumb, models should be as simple as possible, given their purposes, 
but not more simple. Consequently, a metasystemic thinker will continue 
to use simple analytical/rational models where the phenomena they are 
interested in can be approximated adequately by such a model, given the 
goals of their modelling.  
Individuals can use Laske's declarative knowledge about model 
building to help scaffold metasystemic cognition in themselves. Or 
coaches can use it to scaffold metasystemic cognition in others. At first, 
this is a slow and laborious process in which the individual learns to use 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
218 
 
particular thought forms to identify specific absences in their mental 
modelling, and then attempts to use the relevant thought forms to 
remedy each specific deficiency.  
However, with persistent effort and practice, the individual will 
be able to implement the new movements in thought fluidly and 
unconsciously. Through practice, they will have converted the 
declarative knowledge into procedural knowledge. 
This is comparable to the way a developing tennis player 
receives declarative knowledge from a coach about how to improve their 
serve. But in order to become proficient in the new service action, the 
player must then spend considerable time practicing, receive more 
coaching, and so on, recursively, until the new service action can be 
performed fluently and unconsciously. 
As mentioned earlier, modern complexity science is almost 
entirely a product of analytical/rational thinking. It is the outcome of 
attempts to apply mechanistic analytical/rational thinking to complex 
phenomena that cannot be modelled adequately by it. As 
analytical/rational thinking spread during the First Enlightenment, it 
achieved early success in the modelling of simple physical phenomena 
such as forces, motion, and gravity. This led to attempts to use it more 
widely. These attempts were successful when they were applied to 
aspects of reality that happened to be able to be understood by 
analytical/rational models, e.g., because they were relatively 
mechanistic. However, they failed when phenomena were too 
dynamically complex to be modelled adequately by analytical/rational 
thinking. 
This was not a problem for science at the time. Scientists who 
operate at the analytical/rational level are generally not aware of what 
their models are missing. The aspects of complex phenomena that are 
absent from their models obviously cannot be identified by their 
thinking—these aspects are missing from their thinking. Scientists 
cannot think about or understand what they cannot think about. 
Scientists who view reality through the prism of 
analytical/rational thinking will not see the limitations of their thinking. 
Instead, they will conclude that their analytical/rational thinking 

 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
219 
 
potentially enables them to understand everything that can be thought 
about effectively. They tend to believe that First Enlightenment science 
can answer all questions that can be answered adequately. 
Some of the finest minds of the 20th century began to see the 
limitations of analytical/rational thinking in relation to complex 
phenomena. Several of them led attempts to build a new science of 
complexity. However, none of these attempts made significant progress. 
Primarily, they failed because their complex discoveries would be 
accepted by mainstream science only if they met the narrow, 
mechanistic criteria used by First Enlightenment science. Whenever it 
looked like progress was being made, they would be pulled back in 
again by the mainstream. This has continued to restrict mainstream 
science to the exploration of phenomena that can be modelled 
effectively using only analytical/rational thinking. 
As a further consequence, what currently passes for complexity 
science is often no more than an analytical/rational reduction of complex 
phenomena. It has succeeded in understanding complexity only in 
relation to those limited aspects of complex phenomena that happen to 
be able to be modelled at least approximately by mechanistic, 
analytical/rational thinking. As such, up until the present, complexity 
science has fallen far short of producing adequate understanding of 
complex social, economic, political, psychological, and ecological 
phenomena. This failure will continue until a Second Enlightenment 
drives the spread of metasystemic cognition, and produces Second 
Enlightenment science. This science will transcend but include existing 
science, and will have its own criteria for assessing whether research and 
theorizing constitutes proper science. 
I was particularly excited by Otto Laske's Manual of Dialectical 
Thought Forms because it was not a weak, first attempt to identify the 
movements in thought that were needed to constitute metasystemic 
cognition. It was highly detailed and insightful about each thought form. 
It was comprehensive and masterful. For many years, I had been on the 
lookout for declarative knowledge about metasystemic cognition that 
could be used to scaffold it. In all those years, I had not discovered 
anything at all of value. It was a shock to suddenly come across 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
220 
 
something fully formed and highly developed like the Manual. As can 
happen with great works of art, it was as if it had just appeared out of the 
ether, fully developed and without being preceded by a long sequence of 
less effective antecedents. 
It was even more surprising considering that a similar exercise 
has not yet been conducted for analytical/rational thinking itself. Modern 
education systems do not scaffold analytical/rational thinking directly in 
school students. There is no Manual of Analytical/Rational Thought 
Forms that can be used for this purpose. In significant part, this is 
because in order to see one's thought processes as objects in awareness, 
and therefore to be able to describe them declaratively, one has to be at a 
meta-level of awareness to those thought processes. Only about 30 
percent of students in modern societies now reach the analytical/rational 
level. Very few reach a level that is meta to that. 
I was to discover later that the idea of identifying movements in 
thought came first from developmental psychologist Michael Basseches. 
He conducted interviews with individuals who seemed capable of 
complex cognition, and recorded their movements in thought. His 
method of investigating thought forms by interviewing others does not 
require that the researcher be at a meta-level to their own cognition. It is 
much easier to see the movements of thoughts in others, than to see 
one's own thought processes in real-time. 
Subsequently, Otto Laske built on Basseches' work to produce 
the Manual. But Otto, who had trained in developmental psychology at 
Harvard, was able to go considerably beyond the work of Basseches. 
Earlier in life, he had also studied at the Frankfurt School under Theodor 
Adorno, a renowned German philosopher and dialectical thinker. It was 
with Adorno that Otto was trained in dialectical thinking, and gradually 
developed the crucial ability to see his own thinking as object. This 
unique combination of experience and training enabled Otto to produce 
the Manual. Its originality and comprehensiveness could have resulted 
only from such a novel synthesis of different perspectives. Furthermore, 
it could only have been produced by a person who had developed to a 
meta-level in relation to their thinking. 

 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
221 
 
Given my long interest in techniques for recursively improving 
cognition and my awareness of the evolutionary significance of 
spreading metasystemic cognition, I knew what to do with the Manual 
when I found it. At last, there was a tool that could be used to scaffold 
metasystemic cognition in others. 
Initially, I used the Quadrants and thought forms on myself and 
on my own cognition. I set out to test my own model-building capacities 
against the thought form framework. Did I use all the thought forms in 
all four Quadrants that were relevant when building mental models of 
particular complex phenomena? Were there blind spots that I needed to 
remedy? If so, how could I go about incorporating all thought forms into 
my thinking so that their use becomes fluid and automatic? 
In general, I found that my model-building skills tended to use 
all the thought forms and more. This was not surprising given that 'big 
picture' evolutionary thinking is a paradigmatic example of 
metasystemic thinking. You cannot get far without adequately 
representing relevant contexts, processes, co-evolving relationships, and 
systems-in-transformation.  
As part of this process of self-examination, I set out to label and 
interpret my thought processes using the thought form framework. In 
effect, this involved what is known as procedural to declarative 
redescription. This process is perhaps best understood by taking a 
familiar example.  
As they develop and learn, infants acquire procedural knowledge 
in the form of various skills. Initially, they are unable to describe in 
words the knowledge that underpins these skills. However, as they 
continue to grow and develop, they learn to translate at least some of the 
procedural knowledge that they have acquired into declarative 
knowledge. 
This is the process known as procedural to declarative 
redescription. For example, many children can speak reasonably well by 
age five. Their speech follows many of the rules of grammar. However, 
they have no declarative knowledge of the grammatical rules that apply 
to their speech. During their schooling, some of this procedural 
knowledge is redescribed into declarative knowledge. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
222 
 
In many domains, the redescription of procedural knowledge into 
declarative knowledge enables the development of science-based models 
of procedural skills. This, in turn, enables skills to be generalised and 
adapted quickly to new circumstances. Knowledge is no longer limited 
to specific situations. 
Consciously and intentionally, I went through such a 
redescription process in relation to my metasystemic thinking. As I 
proceeded, it enabled me increasingly to see my thought processes as 
exemplars of a declarative model, and to talk to myself and to others 
about my thinking. This made it easier to see my own movements in 
thought as object, and to consider whether alternative thought forms 
might be more useful for the building of a particular model.  
Using the thought form framework in these ways enabled me to 
see how the framework could be used to spread metasystemic thinking 
more widely. I now understood how others could be given the cognitive 
tools needed to self-scaffold metasystemic cognition. I could also see 
how others could be coached in their use of the thought forms in order to 
get them to the critically important stage where they could then self-
scaffold metasystemic cognition.  A set of tools was now available to 
catalyse the spread of metasystemic cognition and to kick-start the 
Second Enlightenment. 
However, coaching metasystemic cognition was not something 
that I wanted to spend the rest of my life doing. My central interests and 
capabilities are to contribute to the application of metasystemic 
cognition to understand the future evolution of humanity and to guide it. 
I am a loner and an introvert, and I was not attracted to spending my 
days helping individuals or small groups to develop complex skills. 
So, I needed to inspire others who possess suitable personality 
attributes and skills to begin the detailed work needed to scaffold and 
spread metasystemic cognition. 
Fortunately, our market-based economic systems can be relied 
upon to drive the spread of metasystemic cognition, once it becomes 
clear that it can be scaffolded in others and provides significant 
competitive advantages to businesses whose executives have developed 
it. Competition between businesses drives the spread of any innovation 

 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
223 
 
that can provide an advantage to those who adopt it. Businesses without 
the innovation will be outcompeted by those that do. All businesses in a 
particular market will have to acquire any significant innovation, or 
perish. Economic markets provide a powerful incentive for such an 
innovation to spread. 
Metasystemic cognition can provide such a significant 
advantage. Modern corporations tend to be embedded in highly complex 
environments. These include competitive markets, systems of 
governance, political systems, research programs, wider economic 
systems, and so on. To navigate these complex systems, corporations 
need models that enable them to predict how these interacting systems 
will unfold. Any corporation that is better at anticipating the complex 
consequences of its actions will have a clear competitive advantage. 
As we have seen, analytical/rational cognition is not up to the 
task of producing effective models of the complex challenges faced by 
modern corporations. Mechanistic, analysable models cannot 
comprehend the dynamical complexity encountered by corporations. But 
hardly any executives of major corporations possess metasystemic 
cognition to a significant degree. Some are extremely intelligent, but 
they operate largely at the analytical/rational level. 
As a consequence, the executives of modern corporations tend to 
be in over their heads. They are incapable of adequately meeting the 
complex demands of their jobs. Often, they are faking it. This is one of 
the key reasons why a must-have capacity for senior executives in large 
corporations is the ability to act with confidence and self-belief in their 
decision-making, despite the overwhelming evidence that they do not 
know what they are doing. 
In this context, any corporation that can find a way to elevate its 
executives' cognitive capacity to the metasystemic level will achieve a 
major competitive advantage. Its competitors will have to follow suit. 
Furthermore, any evolutionary activist who wants to accelerate 
the transition to metasystemic cognition among humans needs to take 
advantage of this economic dynamic. They need to contribute to the 
development and packaging of tools to scaffold metasystemic cognition 
in forms that will tend to be spread rapidly by market forces. When 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
224 
 
packaged in such forms, the spread of metasystemic cognition will be 
autocatalytic. 
In fact, it was a similar kind of economic dynamic that drove the 
emergence of the First Enlightenment and the spread of 
analytical/rational thinking. Before the rise of mercantilism and large-
scale markets, feudalism was the predominant form of social 
organisation in much of Europe. Feudalism was stable for many 
centuries. A significant cause of this stability was that innovation and 
creativity were actively suppressed in feudal systems. Tradition was the 
prime determinant of how things should be done, century after century. 
Anyone who challenged traditional religious practices or farming 
techniques was quickly censured. Members of feudal societies typically 
felt threatened by change. Safety and certainty were to be found in the 
status quo. 
The rise of mercantilism disrupted this status quo. In the 
beginning, many members of feudal systems opposed mercantilism 
strongly. But it was like an acid that persistently eroded the pre-existing 
social order. 
Before the First Enlightenment, analytical/rational thinking was 
rare. It had flowered in some limited areas at particular times in history. 
Ancient Greece is an obvious example. But even then, there may have 
been only a few hundred people at any time who were capable of 
analytical/rational cognition or higher. 
But eventually, the rise of mercantilism in Europe strongly 
incentivized the acquisition of analytical/rational thinking. Under feudal 
systems, concrete operations thinking was widespread. It was sufficient 
to enable individuals to function effectively in social systems where 
knowledge of traditions and associated skills were all that was needed. 
However, merchants could be much more successful if they were 
capable of analytical/rational thinking. This ability enabled individuals 
to model the future consequences of their decisions, provided the 
circumstances were not too complex. A merchant who could plan ahead 
to some degree could easily outcompete other merchants who were 
equipped only with concrete operations thinking. Individuals at the 
concrete operations level could not think abstractly, and thus their ability 

 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
225 
 
to generalise their thinking was limited. Analytical/rational merchants 
could see opportunities and possibilities that their concrete operations 
competitors were blind to. 
Strong incentives to acquire analytical/rational thinking still exist 
in current societies. We now live in a world where analytical/rational 
thinking is almost essential if one is to earn a high income. This has led 
to the creation of compulsory education systems in modern societies. 
These systems are attempts to institutionalise at a societal level the goal 
of scaffolding all citizens to at least the level of analytical/rational 
thinking. 
However, as I have mentioned, the limited research that is 
available reveals that only about 30 percent of the population in Western 
democracies achieve this level of thinking capacity. In large part, the 
failure of our current educational practices is due to the absence of 
sufficient individuals at the metasystemic level. The challenge of 
scaffolding individuals to the analytical/rational level is too complex to 
be understood by analytical/rational cognition alone. As we have 
discussed, it is only with metasystemic cognition that individuals are 
able to model and manipulate complex phenomena, including complex 
psychological and educational systems. 
These understandings led me to recognize a key difference 
between the First Enlightenment and the coming Second Enlightenment. 
The First Enlightenment does not appear to have been conceived, 
designed, and implemented intentionally by humans, individually or 
collectively. Fundamentally, this is because to do this effectively 
requires metasystemic cognition. In order to plan and catalyse the First 
Enlightenment systematically, the capacity to construct mental models 
of complex interacting systems would have been essential. But at the 
time of the emergence of the First Enlightenment, this capacity was 
almost non-existent, and remains so even today. 
I am not suggesting that there were no individuals during the 
First Enlightenment who knew broadly what was going on with the 
emergence and spread of analytical/rational thinking. At times, some 
individuals and groups also took steps to promote the spread of ideas 
that were produced by analytical/rational thinking. The Freemasons and 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
226 
 
the founding fathers of the United States of America are prime 
candidates for this kind of possibility. But there is no evidence of the 
systematic planning and implementation of comprehensive interventions 
designed to scaffold and spread analytical/rational thinking itself, 
beyond the kind of educational activities we see today. 
These kinds of considerations led me to the conclusion that the 
Second Enlightenment should be planned and driven intentionally, at 
least until economic forces take over. 
As activists are wont to say: "If not now, when? And if not you, 
who?" 
So, I teamed up with an American, Lawrence Wollersheim, to 
hold what we called 'The First Planning Meeting for the Second 
Enlightenment.' 
The stated purpose of the meeting was to develop strategies and 
techniques to produce a global shift to metasystemic/dialectical 
cognition. The key issues to be addressed by the meeting were: What 
new ways of thinking will enable humanity to understand and manage 
the complex challenges that we are facing?  Is it possible to train people 
in these new ways of thinking?  If it is, what strategies will spread the 
higher forms of thinking to sufficient people across the planet in time to 
make a real difference before global crises undermine human 
civilization? 
Lawrence lived on a yacht at Sausalito in San Francisco Bay. 
The yacht was large enough to host fifteen or so people for the Planning 
Meeting. 
But who else should we invite? Ideally, the participants in the 
Meeting would need to have two capacities that, unfortunately, were 
then extremely rare, and still are. 
First, they had to possess the ability to function cognitively at the 
metasystemic level. Without this, they would be unable to develop and 
operate the complex mental models needed to identify strategies 
designed to spread metasystemic cognition across the planet. 
Furthermore, a capacity for metasystemic cognition is a prerequisite for 
developing practices and approaches that can scaffold metasystemic 
cognition in others. If individuals are to be able to develop such 

 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
227 
 
approaches, they must be able to construct and use mental models of 
complex psychological processes. 
The second characteristic that prospective participants needed to 
have was a history of working on themselves. Participants with some 
experience in the intentional use of meditation and other practices to 
transform themselves were critically important for the success of the 
Meeting. This was because the spread of metasystemic cognition would 
necessitate the scaffolding in others of a capacity to self-scaffold higher 
cognition. 
Individuals could be introduced to metasystemic cognition by 
suitable coaching and training approaches. Ultimately, however, if they 
were to develop a comprehensive capacity, they would need to develop 
the motivation and skills to self-scaffold. Unless participants had 
persistently worked on themselves to enhance their own cognitive and 
psychological functioning, they would not have the experiential 
knowledge to understand the scaffolding process, and how it might be 
developed in others. 
It is worth noting here that simply having an extensive 
meditation practice alone was nowhere near sufficient for the purposes 
of the Meeting. The great majority of meditators in the Western World 
today do not meditate in order to build their cognitive capacities or to 
become self-evolving amid ordinary life. Instead, many meditate to 
achieve states that make themselves feel good. For example, they may 
meditate primarily to reduce stress, produce internal peace, attain 'higher 
spiritual states', make themselves feel calmer, and so on. 
Otto Laske embodied these characteristics and was the first 
person we invited. He was enthusiastic about participating, and the First 
Planning Meeting for the Second Enlightenment was up and running. 
However, it was challenging to find others with the desired 
combination of capacities. Fully developed metasystemic cognition is 
very rare in mainstream academia, including in the sciences. 
Analytical/rational thinking predominates. Furthermore, individuals who 
have persistently worked on themselves to enhance their own cognitive 
capacities are even rarer, both inside academia and without. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
228 
 
For these reasons, we decided to invite several leaders from the 
integral community. This community had formed around the work of 
American philosopher and writer Ken Wilber. His work aimed to 
produce a 'big picture' framework for all human knowledge. Wilber's 
writing had a particular focus on spiritual development, but he had 
become widely known for his ability to produce novel syntheses of 
knowledge from diverse domains. A number of highly-talented 
individuals with various backgrounds had emerged around Wilber and 
his work and were independently building upon it. 
Although they might not have fully met the participation criteria, 
they were very smart and capable individuals who had broken the 
shackles of analytical/rational thinking to some extent. Furthermore, as 
far as we knew, they each had a long history of using meditation-like 
practices, at least recreationally. 
The Meeting took place in September 2011. Everyone seemed to 
enjoy and be stimulated by the discussions. However, the meeting did 
not produce any breakthroughs or silver bullets for spreading 
metasystemic cognition. Furthermore, it became evident that few of the 
participants had much experience in using meditation-like practices or 
other methods for self-scaffolding higher cognition. 
Nevertheless, having to plan and conduct the meeting stimulated 
Lawrence and me to do more work on our own ideas about 
metasystemic cognition and how it might be scaffolded and spread. It 
caused us to examine our own cognitive processes even more deeply and 
to test against our own experience the suggestions that were advanced by 
participants. Our involvement enhanced our ability to see the operation 
of metasystemic cognition in our own minds, assisting us further in 
observing our thinking from a meta-level. 
I had hoped for more, but the main benefit of the meeting was to 
serve as a symbol for future potentialities and possibilities. The First 
Planning Meeting for the Second Enlightenment had taken place. The 
Meeting had brought into concrete reality the notion that the Second 
Enlightenment differed from the First in that it would be planned and 
spread intentionally and consciously. It is not possible to predict what 
specific beneficial effects might be produced by the Meeting in the 

 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
229 
 
future. But it serves as a permanent attractor for actions and strategies 
directed at actualizing a Second Enlightenment. It increases the 
likelihood that Meetings with similar goals will arise in the future. 
The obvious next step in kick-starting the Second Enlightenment 
was to develop a detailed program to scaffold metasystemic cognition in 
key target groups, including senior executives in business and 
government. However, it was evident from the Planning Meeting that 
none of the other attendees would do this anytime soon. They had 
neither the motivation nor the capability. If it were to happen quickly, I 
would have to do it myself, despite my aversion to spending much time 
in social interactions. 
On my return to Australia, I met with my colleague Victoria 
Wilding to design such a program. She had long been involved in 
implementing developmental practices. We had previously discussed in 
broad terms the kinds of approaches that could be used to scaffold 
metasystemic cognition. 
Eventually, we produced a program of ten weekly sessions. The 
overall goal of the program was to enhance the cognitive capacity of 
participants in order to enable them to strategize and act effectively in 
complex circumstances. Importantly, this was not limited to developing 
metasystemic cognition. As I have mentioned previously, two capacities 
are required if one is to respond effectively when faced with novel 
complex challenges. The first is the cognitive capacity to build mental 
models of the complex challenges and to use these to identify effective 
strategies. 
The second is the ability to actually implement those strategies in 
the face of emotional and other psychological predispositions that 
conflict with the actions they need to take to implement the strategies. 
As I have mentioned, they need to be able to align their pre-existing 
psychological goals and motivations with their new strategic goals. 
Consistent with this overall goal, the first half of the program 
was directed at developing the capacity to access presence at will in the 
midst of ordinary life. The purpose of this was three-fold: first, to enable 
participants to see their thought processes as object so that they would 
be able to identify where their existing cognitive processes are limited, 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
230 
 
and how they might be enhanced; second, to enable participants to 
access intuition, pattern-recognition capabilities, and other cognitive 
resources that are essential for building mental models of complex 
phenomena (access to these 'right-brain' resources is usually blocked by 
continual embeddedness in incessant thinking); and third, to free 
participants from the dictates of genetic, cultural and social 
predispositions (including their conditioning) that otherwise causes them 
to behave in ways that conflict with their goals (individuals who can 
remain in the present in calm, spacious awareness are able to, for 
example, free themselves from negative emotions by letting them arise 
and 'pass through them', rather than being embedded in them and being 
controlled by them). 
The second part of the program was directed specifically at the 
development of metasystemic cognition. Participants would be 
introduced to the use of Laske's Thought Form Framework through 
relevant exercises and practices. They would be required to use the skills 
developed in the first half of the program to become aware of their 
thinking and to identify where their existing thought processes were 
inadequate for understanding complex phenomena. The participants 
would then be guided to use the Framework to identify how their pre-
existing cognitive processes needed to be modified so that they could 
model complex phenomena more effectively. 
The program focused more on doing rather than on transmitting 
theory. Exercises and practices undertaken as homework were a key 
feature of the approach. The outcomes of these were then the subject of 
group discussion and learning.  
The next step for Victoria and I was to undertake a pilot of the 
program. We assembled a group of 10 participants. In general, they were 
all people who were associated in some way or other with Melbourne's 
progressive community. Many had been influenced by Ken Wilber's 
writing, and a few, but far from all, had an established and regular 
meditation practice. 
In general, the participants were enthusiastic, intelligent, and 
very open to new ideas. 

 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
231 
 
The ten-week program went well. The formal evaluations we 
received from each of the participants at the completion of the program 
were all overwhelmingly positive. 
However, I was unsatisfied with the outcome. I felt that the 
group discussions about practices revealed that the strategies embodied 
in the program were unlikely to transform the participants deeply, at 
least in the short term. 
Ultimately, the program's goal would be met only if it produced 
graduates who were committed to self-scaffolding higher capacities 
throughout the remainder of their lives. Ten weeks alone was nowhere 
near enough to produce an individual who was self-evolving and fully 
equipped with metasystemic cognition. The full development of these 
capacities required years of highly motivated, recursive work on oneself. 
In this context, what we had hoped the program would achieve was to 
give graduates the tools and motivation to embark on this path and to 
continue on it indefinitely. 
I felt that the program did not achieve this. However, what it did 
do is open to all participants the possibility that they could embark on 
serious self-scaffolding at any time in the future. As a result of their 
participation in the program, they knew that this opportunity was open to 
them, and they knew the kinds of tools they could use if they took it up. 
There is an old saying in self-development circles that "When the pupil 
is ready, the teacher will appear." A variant of this insight is that when 
the pupil is ready, the significance of the teaching they received years 
earlier will be understood fully for the first time, and they will be 
motivated to do the work necessary to embody it. 
I learned several important lessons from running the Pilot. First 
and foremost, I realized that the program needed to place an even greater 
emphasis on getting each participant to practice self-scaffolding. 
Furthermore, it was important that this self-scaffolding not be limited to 
scaffolding the building of better models. It also needed to include the 
repeated and recursive practicing of the self-scaffolding of meta-models, 
i.e., of models that are used to build new models and to improve them. 
The strategy that I developed subsequently to achieve this was to 
get individuals to identify a complex challenge that they were already 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
232 
 
highly motivated to solve. Then, without reference to existing sources of 
knowledge about how to deal with this specific challenge, individuals 
would be required to build relevant models from first principles. These 
would include models of the relevant problem and of possible strategic 
responses. Individuals would be guided to use the Thought Form 
Framework to assist their model building. Importantly, they would also 
be asked to give particular attention to the meta-strategies they used to 
build these models. 
When they completed this first phase of model building, 
individuals would then test the models and strategies against some 
existing sources of relevant knowledge. If they found that these existing 
approaches were superior in some ways to theirs, they would be asked to 
do two things: The first would be to amend their models as necessary in 
order to incorporate the improvements. 
The second would be to identify why their meta-models had 
produced flawed models in the first place. For example, they may find 
that their meta-models failed to use particular thought forms or 
interpreted relevant thought forms incorrectly. The final step would be to 
amend their meta-models so that if these enhanced meta-models had 
been used from the outset, they would have produced models that did 
not require amendment. 
When this second phase of model building is complete, the 
individuals would be required to repeat the process by testing their 
models against additional relevant sources of existing knowledge. This 
might include talking with experts in the field as a further test of the 
effectiveness of their models and meta-models. Eventually, it might 
include implementing strategies suggested by the models, and using the 
outcomes to assess the models further. And so on, recursively. 
This process would be repeated with other complex problems 
that the individual is highly motivated to solve. In these new cases, the 
models that are built are likely to differ from each other. However, the 
meta-models that are used to scaffold the building of each of the specific 
models are likely to share greater similarities. Individuals would be 
required to generalise their meta-models as far as possible so that they 

 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
233 
 
could be used to build models that are effective for a range of complex 
challenges and problems. 
This set of model-building practices that are directed at 
generating a capacity for self-scaffolding would also be useful for 
overcoming the second limitation in the design of the pilot program. 
This limitation arose from the need to adapt practices to the 
characteristics of each individual. The Pilot relied too much on group 
teaching. Nevertheless, it had been worth testing the effectiveness of 
group approaches. If it had proven effective, it would have assisted 
considerably with the spread of metasystemic cognition. One-on-one 
coaching considerably limits the number of new individuals a teacher 
can train in a given period. 
However, individualised coaching is considerably more effective 
than group processes. It allows the coach to assess in detail the current 
cognitive level of the individual, assist the individual to see the specific 
limitations of their existing thinking, identify the particular movements 
in thought that the individual needs to incorporate in their thinking if 
they are to develop metasystemic cognition, and so on. The coach can 
use this information to design scaffolding that is adapted to the specific 
characteristics and needs of the individual. The nature of the scaffolding 
that proves optimal will differ considerably between individuals, and is 
likely to diverge further as the coach guides the individual in the 
recursive enhancement of their cognition. 
When individuals achieve the ultimate goal of self-scaffolding, 
the particular way they go about it will likely also be unique for each 
individual. 
The third main lesson that I learned from conducting the Pilot is 
that individuals need to be highly motivated. This is essential if they are 
to undertake the intense work on themselves needed to develop 
metasystemic cognition and the ability to be self-evolving. Up until this 
point in the evolution of humanity, very few individuals have developed 
the capacity to be awake in the midst of ordinary life. Fewer still have 
used this capacity to become self-evolving and to develop metasystemic 
cognition. Many, many more have set out on the path to awakening, but 
have died asleep. Few find the narrow road and the small gate that leads 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
234 
 
to awakening, let alone the road that is even less travelled that leads to 
metasystemic cognition. 
As I have mentioned, Gurdjieff said that in order to awaken in 
the midst of ordinary life, an individual must work on themselves so 
hard that the soles of their feet sweat. 
The development of these capacities will become easier as 
humans design and refine psycho-technologies that can train these 
capacities. These technologies will be enhanced considerably as an 
increasing proportion of people develop metasystemic cognition. This is 
because it is only with cognition at least at the level of metasystemic 
cognition that an individual can build mental models of the relevant 
cognitive and psychological processes, and use these models to develop 
complex psycho-technologies. 
But it is early days yet. At present, in the absence of societal 
supports and institutions, individuals need to be highly motivated if they 
are to develop these capacities. The teaching strategy of getting students 
to work on their model-building skills by engaging with issues that 
matter to them most, will help to some extent. But alone, it will often not 
be enough. In general, if they are to succeed, individuals will have to 
have had life experiences and possess personal characteristics that 
already strongly motivate them to become self-scaffolders. In my 
experience, as yet there are very few of these individuals. The right 
combination of accidents of genetics, birth, upbringing, cultural 
influences, and so on, rarely occurs. 
If an individual is highly motivated in this way, the information 
and feedback that they can receive in group sessions and/or by reading 
relevant books and other materials might be enough. They may have the 
mental energy and focus to use these sources of declarative knowledge 
to begin the process of self-scaffolding. Their efforts may become 
recursively self-reinforcing as they see their skills, models, and meta-
models improving progressively. 
Over the years since the Pilot, I have taken a few individuals 
through the modified version of the program in order to test its main 
features. In general, it has been significantly more effective than the 
group processes used in the Pilot. 

 
A Breakthrough for Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
235 
 
One of these free-ranging guinea pigs, Mark Roddam, wrote a 
report on this experience that was published in the Integral Leadership 
Review.16 
Given the personality characteristics I mentioned earlier and the 
existence of other priorities, I decided against devoting much more time 
and energy to promoting and implementing the new program. Instead, as 
I will outline, I returned to focusing on the further development of the 
evolutionary worldview and identifying in greater detail its implications 
for humanity. 
In the meantime, I took steps to increase the likelihood that 
anyone interested in the scaffolding of higher capacities would 
encounter my contributions. 
To this end, I made relevant materials freely available on my 
Evolutionary Manifesto website. These included details of The First 
Planning Meeting for the Second Enlightenment and an outline of the 
scaffolding program and its methods. I also talked about methods for 
developing higher cognition in several YouTube interviews. More 
recently, I participated in a series of online Salons about the scaffolding 
of metasystemic cognition organised by Bernhard Possert of the Center 
for Applied Dialectics. 
I hoped that this would eventually attract contact from 
individuals interested in teaching the scaffolding program or their own 
version of it. I intended to supply additional teaching materials and 
assistance to any individuals who seemed committed to doing so. 
However, no one has yet set out to implement the program or any 
other variant that they have developed themselves. Given that I am now 
over 70 years old, I thought that it was time to write down a detailed 
account of what I have learned from a lifetime of recursively improving 
myself and others. Hence this book. 
 
 
 
16 Roddam (2014) - see References for full citation 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
236 
 
 
 

 
237 
 
18. 
 
 
 
Origins of Life, Consciousness, and Global 
Governance 
 
In the last ten years, I have had another half dozen papers published in 
international peer-reviewed science journals about various aspects of the 
evolutionary worldview. In general, the papers were all directed at 
strengthening the scientific foundations of the central pillar of the 
worldview: that evolution has a trajectory and that this has major 
implications for humanity and for how we organise ourselves 
collectively. 
One of these papers set out to demonstrate that my approach 
(Evolutionary Management Theory) provides a better and more useful 
explanation of the major cooperative evolutionary transitions than its 
main competitor, David Sloan Wilson's group selectionism.17 Two of the 
papers focused directly on identifying and justifying the existence of the 
evolutionary trajectory in greater depth and breadth.18 
I decided to write two other papers because they had additional 
potential to increase acceptance within the scientific community of the 
foundations of the evolutionary worldview. Each of these papers used 
Management Theory to solve major problems that science had found 
intractable so far. If my theoretical framework was able to generate 
breakthroughs in these areas, the papers would raise the profile and 
reputation of my evolutionary work significantly. In turn, this would 
help generate wider acceptance of the evolutionary worldview. 
The first of these papers used Management Theory to explain the 
origins of life.19 I had first outlined this explanation in my 1995 paper, 
 
17 Stewart (2020) - see References 
18 Stewart (2014), and (2019b) - see References 
19 Stewart (2019a) - see References 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
238 
 
Metaevolution. However, I had not bothered to devote a full paper to it 
because it was not central to the foundations of the evolutionary 
worldview and to my wider goals. This was even though I had always 
recognised that it was my most 'commercial idea' in the sense that if it 
were accepted by mainstream science, it would attract widespread 
attention. However, my overarching goal was not to achieve scientific 
recognition and fame. It was to contribute to the successful advancement 
of the evolutionary process. 
In 2016 when I was reassessing my strategies in depth, I realized 
that if I could write a paper that solved the problem of how life 
originated, it would assist greatly in drawing attention to my other work. 
In particular, it would attract attention to Evolutionary Management 
Theory and its foundational role in the evolutionary worldview. 
Similar thinking applied to the second of these two papers. It 
outlines a theory of the evolution and development of consciousness.20 
The paper explains the emergence of consciousness by identifying the 
architecture and functioning of a 'minimally complex' subsystem 
capable of giving rise to conscious experience. It then goes on to 
demonstrate that such a subsystem can provide substantial adaptive 
advantages to the organism that possesses it. 
Such a subsystem enables an organism to achieve body-
environment coordination in novel circumstances without substantial 
prior learning or innate capacities. The subsystem achieves this by 
assembling an image of the organism's position in relation to relevant 
features of the environment. Then, the subsystem 
inspects/examines/interprets this image to assess whether the movements 
it is producing are achieving the desired coordination. 
The image ('the object') and the interpreter of the object ('the 
subject') comprise the minimally-complex, subject-object subsystem. 
The object is experienced by the subject. It 'lights up' for the subject. 
There is something it is like to be the subject. 
In humans, threading a needle is a familiar example of conscious 
body-environment coordination. It is impossible to thread a needle in 
 
20 Stewart (2022) - see References 

 
Origins of Life and Consciousness 
 
 
239 
 
novel, unpractised circumstances without giving full conscious attention 
to your fingers, the thread, and the needle. Furthermore, it is impossible 
to imagine undertaking such an unpractised task if the relevant images 
are not 'lit up' in consciousness. 
The paper goes on to consider how the further evolution of such 
a simple subject-object subsystem gave rise to the complex features of 
consciousness found in advanced organisms such as humans. In 
particular, it provides an account of the emergence of different levels of 
conscious modelling. It deals with the emergence and significance of 
metasystemic cognition and its spread in a Second Enlightenment. 
Another paper I published dealt more directly with the 
implications for humanity of Management Theory and the evolutionary 
worldview, here and now. My goal was to draw on an understanding of 
evolutionary processes to identify how human societies need to be re-
organised if humanity is to survive and thrive indefinitely. The paper 
outlines how human societies can be set up so that, thereafter, 'the good' 
will self-organise. Currently, human societies self-organise 'the bad'. 
Whether or not the members of a society intend it, our societies are 
currently self-organising environmental destruction, the threat of nuclear 
annihilation, poverty, and so on.21 
The paper shows how an appropriate system of governance can 
be set up so that the interests of all members of society, including 
corporations, are aligned and remain aligned with the interests of the 
society as a whole. Furthermore, and of even greater importance, it 
shows how the system of governance can be set up so that it is highly 
evolvable, and the interests of the individuals and processes that 
constitute the governance system are also aligned and remain aligned 
with those of the society as a whole. This is essential to prevent the 
power of governance from being hi-jacked to exploit the society. 
When these conditions are met, individuals, corporations, and 
others who pursue only their own immediate interests and have no 
concern for the interests of others will nonetheless act in the interests of 
society as a whole. 
 
21 Stewart (2018) - see References 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
240 
 
The paper argues that humans face an imperative to set up a 
global society that self-organises 'the good'. The survival of human 
civilization demands it. This will require the establishment of an 
appropriate system of global governance. 
Of course, at the mere mention of global governance, there are 
many who will immediately reach for their gun. This is particularly the 
case if they are citizens of a current superpower, or are a citizen of an 
ally of one. It is generally in the interests of a superpower to oppose the 
erection of global governance that would have the power to manage and 
control all nation-states, including superpowers. 
Superpowers do extremely well out of international competition, 
at least in the short term. They habitually use their power to out-compete 
other nations and to exploit less powerful ones. It is fundamentally 
against their interests to be subjected to a system of global governance 
that prevents destructive competition and exploitation and that promotes 
fairness in international relations. 
Consequently, it is in the interests of those who have the most 
wealth and influence within a superpower to ensure that most citizens 
oppose global governance. Typically, they use their influence over the 
media and government to cause citizens to believe that global 
governance is their enemy and should be opposed at all costs. 
It is also in the interests of the powerful to make citizens believe 
that their opposition to global governance has been freely arrived at and 
has arisen because such governance is objectively evil, not because their 
opposition has been orchestrated by media and government 
manipulation. 
Often, the goal of the powerful is to ensure that citizens (but not 
themselves) are willing to die to prevent global governance. 
Twice, humans on this planet have gotten close to instituting a 
system of global management that would disarm nation-states and 
prevent further war. After both the First and Second World Wars, major 
movements emerged to ensure that these kinds of abominations could 
never occur again. In both cases, there was general agreement amongst 
the majority of those charged with accomplishing this that global 
governance was essential for achieving and maintaining world peace. In 

 
Origins of Life and Consciousness 
 
 
241 
 
both cases, the superpowers prevented this from happening. In both 
cases, sham global systems were set up that did not have the power to 
disarm nation-states and regulate their behaviour.  
In the case of the First World War, the sham arrangement was 
the League of Nations, and in the Second World War, the sham was the 
United Nations. The citizens of superpowers now tend to believe that the 
failure of those institutions to prevent war between Nations is evidence 
of the ineffectiveness of global governance. They do not realize that this 
failure was instead due to the intentional actions of the superpowers at 
the time. The superpowers set up the League of Nations and the United 
Nations so that they would fail. Most citizens of the world were duped, 
and then duped again. 
The consequences of these intentional actions by superpowers 
came extremely close to facilitating the destruction of human 
civilization. When the United States was blockading Cuba in order to 
prevent the deployment of Russian nuclear missiles in Cuba, the world 
was saved from nuclear conflagration by the actions of one officer on a 
nuclear-armed Russian submarine. The submarine was being depth-
charged by the blockade, and the crew thought that they were doomed. 
The rule that regulated the firing of nuclear weapons by the submarine 
required that the three most senior officers had to agree unanimously 
before this could be done. Two of the officers believed that World War 
Three had started, and that they should nuke United States cities. One 
disagreed, and vetoed the use of their nuclear weapons. 
If this Russian had voted in favour, it is likely that no one would 
now be around to ensure that future generations would know of the 
criminal culpability of the superpowers who had stood in the way of 
effective global governance. Nor would they know of the criminality of 
the wealthy and powerful who had influenced the actions of 
superpowers on these issues. They would not know of the culpability of 
the functionaries who were used by the powerful and who allowed 
themselves to be so used.  
With an effective system of global governance, disputes like the 
Cuban missile crisis would be settled by law, not by war. They would be 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
242 
 
resolved in the same way that disputes between states within the United 
States of America are decided: by law, not by war. 
It is extraordinary that the evolution of human civilization on this 
planet came so close to being terminated. But the threat of nuclear 
annihilation has not diminished since then. At present, there are far 
many more nuclear weapons on the planet than then, and many more 
nation-states have them. 
Various false beliefs that purport to justify opposition to global 
governance are commonplace among the citizens of superpowers. In 
particular, many believe that a global system of governance, which they 
often personify as a Global Government, will exploit the people of the 
world and remove their freedoms. 
For example, few of the citizens of the United States see that the 
creation of a system of global governance would merely involve the 
repetition at the level of nation-states of a process that happened many 
years ago to produce the United States of America. Many of the States 
of North America were brought together by a system of federal 
governance to produce the United States. This overarching governance 
was essential for enabling the emergence of what many Americans 
believe is the greatest country on Earth. 
Few attribute the enormous benefits produced by this unification 
to the establishment of a higher level of governance. They do not see the 
direct benefits produced by this governance: It enabled the disarming of 
the States and rendered unthinkable the war and destructive competition 
between the States that was prevalent before the creation of the United 
States. 
Few see that the same is just as feasible and just as beneficial at 
the international level. 
Unfortunately, even fewer have the cognitive capacity to 
envisage how a global system of governance could be organised in such 
a way that the interests of the system of governance are aligned with the 
interests of the citizens of the global society. Not only can they be 
aligned, but as is the case with all living organisms, the society can be 
organised in such a way that any disruption to these arrangements will 
be repaired automatically. The global entity will self-organise any 

 
Origins of Life and Consciousness 
 
 
243 
 
repairs to the system of global governance that are needed to ensure that 
the alignment of interests is maintained. 
When this form of global organisation has been implemented, the 
individuals and processes that constitute the system of global 
governance will, when pursuing their own immediate interests, advance 
the interests of the society as a whole. 
Properly constrained, global management will massively increase 
the opportunities and freedom available to humans across the planet. It 
will achieve this by ending war and exploitation by the powerful, and by 
significantly increasing the opportunities available to citizens. These 
opportunities will be produced by the explosion of internal 
differentiation which will accompany the emergence of the complex 
cooperation that is enabled by global management.  
These kinds of processes and arrangements can guarantee that 
the overwhelming benefits of global management can be achieved 
without falling prey to dangerous exploitation and restrictions of 
freedom. Great power has no intrinsic danger, provided it is 
appropriately constrained. It is only unconstrained power that is a 
problem. 
Past evolution provides us with many examples of forms of 
organisation that constrain the power of management in order to align its 
interests with those of the managed organisation as a whole. Selection 
driven by competition between managed organisations will favour the 
emergence of systems of constraint that prevent managers from 
exploiting their organisations. This is because well-managed 
organisations can outcompete organisations that are hampered by 
managers that exploit the organisation, reducing its productivity. 
Examples that are easiest to envisage are those at the level of 
human societies. The signing of the Magna Carta in Britain in 1215 was 
an event not just of historical but also of evolutionary significance: It 
implemented a series of constraints on the king's power, aligning his 
interests more closely with those of the nobles. 
The emergence of democracy saw a further significant increase 
in the constraints that applied to governments. It was a major innovation 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
244 
 
in mechanisms that align the interests of governments with those of the 
governed. 
Another important innovation was combining systems of 
constitutional governance with the separation of powers. The 
constitution is a set of rules that constrain the governors, and it is 
enforced by an independent judiciary, not by the governors. 
At the global level, similar arrangements can be adapted and 
evolved in many different ways in order to embed global governance in 
an appropriate system of constraints. 
My paper about how to set up a society that self-organises 'the 
good' also takes a novel approach to dealing with these issues. In 
particular, it identifies how new kinds of mechanisms can be established 
that drive the self-organisation of governance that is in the interests of 
the governed. 
The paper suggests that this can be achieved if a society is 
organised so that all the members of the society (including individuals, 
corporations, governments, etc.) capture the impacts of their actions on 
the society as a whole. For example, if their actions harm society, they 
will experience harm. If their actions benefit society, they will capture 
the benefits. I refer to this condition as 'consequence capture'. Once it is 
implemented, the interests of all members of a society will be aligned 
with those of the society as a whole, and the pursuit by individuals of 
their immediate interests will benefit the society. 
How might 'consequence-capture' be implemented? 
The paper begins by considering the basic management 
architecture that is common to all forms of governance. It then goes on 
to identify what additional arrangements would be necessary to ensure 
that improvements in governance self-organise inexorably. The paper 
argues that this can be achieved if governance is established by a 
distributed, invisible-hand system of exchange relations that functions in 
a similar way to the 'invisible hand' that currently self-organises our 
economic markets. 
I refer to such a distributed market that deals with improvements 
in governance as a vertical market. Taken together, the vertical market in 

 
Origins of Life and Consciousness 
 
 
245 
 
governance combined with a horizontal market in goods and services 
will produce a self-organising society. 
Broadly, the vertical market is a market in which 'producers' of 
possible improvements in governance can 'sell' particular improvements 
to citizens who can 'buy' any that they want. Typically, proposed 
improvements in governance will impact groups of citizens (governance 
exists inherently to provide collective benefits. In contrast, economic 
markets typically deal with goods and services whose effects can be 
restricted to a particular purchaser.) Consequently, the potential buyer in 
any instance will be the citizens who will be impacted by the proposed 
improvement in governance. 
The self-organising nature of such a market is easy to see: any 
current failure in governance will be a profit opportunity for 'providers' 
and 'manufacturers' of governance. The vertical market system will 
incentivize them to search for profit opportunities and to invest in 
research that develops improvements in governance that can correct the 
failures. Producers of governance will compete to design and offer 
elements of governance that overcome deficiencies. 
Viewed through the lens of this distributed, self-organising 
framework, our current system of democracy is an absurd and 
incompetent method of establishing and adapting governance. Imagine 
how unresponsive and ineffective economic markets would be if they 
operated under similar principles—i.e., if consumers had to purchase all 
their goods and services in advance for a four-year period through a 
collective decision that can choose one of only two or three packages of 
goods and services. 
If economic markets were as restricted and limited in these ways 
as political markets, they would not have given rise to the enormous 
diversity of goods and services tailored to individual needs and wants 
that we see in modern societies. They would be just as incapable of 
aligning the interests of producers and consumers as are current 
democratic systems at aligning the interests of the governors with those 
of the governed. 
It is not surprising that current systems of government are as 
inept and thoroughly incompetent as I discovered first-hand during my 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
246 
 
working life. But this is just a temporary evolutionary phase that we are 
passing through. With the spread of metasystemic cognition will come 
the ability to organise much more effective and creative ways of 
establishing and evolving systems of governance.

 
247 
 
19. 
 
 
 
The Power of the Evolutionary Worldview 
 
I indicated earlier in the book that when I get toward the end of outlining 
the history of my cognitive development, I will provide a brief overview 
of the evolutionary worldview and its implications for humanity. I have 
reached that point. 
This overview will provide an outline of the evolutionary 
processes that have shaped life on Earth in the past 3.5 billion years and 
that will continue to do so in the future. As I have mentioned earlier, an 
understanding of these evolutionary processes identifies major 
implications for how we must organise ourselves and adapt ourselves 
psychologically if humanity is to survive and flourish indefinitely into 
the future. Previously, I have also emphasised that these implications 
point to what humanity must do here and now, not in the far-flung 
future. 
This sketch of the implications for humanity of an understanding 
of the large-scale processes in which we are embedded is highly relevant 
to the book's goals. It serves as a demonstration of the power and 
necessity of metasystemic cognition. The analytical/rational thinking 
that underpins current mainstream science cannot build adequate mental 
models of the complex challenges that humanity faces. It is ineffective at 
predicting how the complex processes that will shape our future will 
evolve and develop. 
Equipped only with analytical/rational thinking, we fly blind into 
a complex and dangerous future. Without metasystemic cognition, we 
cannot see enough of our future to identify how we need to act, here and 
now, in order to avoid being selected out of existence. 
Without metasystemic cognition, we cannot understand the 
trajectory of evolution and the related processes that shape our future. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
248 
 
Metasystemic cognition is essential for building a dynamical map that 
can guide us. Without metasystemic cognition, we have no evolutionary 
worldview and no map. We will be helpless before powerful forces that 
we cannot understand and are beyond our control. 
For these reasons, this sketch of key features and implications of 
the evolutionary worldview should be seen as a demonstration of the 
necessity for metasystemic cognition. Together with my more detailed 
publications referenced in the footnotes, this outline also serves as a 
practical demonstration of the application of metasystemic cognition to a 
set of complex phenomena. 
As such, it can be used as a bundle of resources for generating 
exercises that will help you to recursively improve your own cognition 
towards the metasystemic level. I have already mentioned some of the 
essential elements of such a process of recursive self-scaffolding. But in 
the book's final chapters, I will set out in a more straightforward and 
comprehensive fashion how you can engage in such a process. 
This outline of the evolutionary worldview will draw together 
various strands that have already been considered to some degree earlier 
in the book. To this extent, it will contain some repetition. But as you 
will see, it is essential and powerful to combine all these strands so that 
they can be viewed as a coherent evolutionary whole. 
The trajectory of evolution has exhibited three over-arching 
trends as it unfolded during the past three and a half billion years on 
Earth. First, living processes have diversified as evolution proceeded. 
They have also been integrated progressively into cooperative 
organisations of ever-increasing scale. As this has occurred, living 
processes have also tended to increase in evolvability. Growing 
diversification, progressive integration, and increasing evolvability are 
the three over-arching trends that have characterised the trajectory of 
evolution on Earth. 
When life first emerged from chemistry, each living entity was 
an infinitesimal cooperative organisation of molecular processes. From 
its very beginning, life has been fundamentally cooperative and 
integrative. These cooperatives of molecular processes gave rise to the 
first simple cells. Through the operation of standard evolutionary 

 
The Power of the Evolutionary Worldview 
 
 
249 
 
processes, these simple cells soon diversified into numerous forms that 
were each adapted to particular environments. Life quickly spread across 
the planet, specialising and differentiating as it went. 
The first major step in the integration of living processes 
occurred when some simple cells banded together to form cooperatives. 
These cooperatives gave rise to the complex eukaryote cell. Our bodies 
are composed of eukaryote cells. The mitochondria within these cells are 
the recognizable descendants of bacteria that participated in this initial 
integration process. 
Propelled by the advantages of cooperation, eukaryote cells 
diversified across multitudes of environments. 
The next major integrative step was the emergence of 
cooperatives of eukaryote cells. These diversified across the planet to 
produce humans and the other multicellular organisms that surround us 
today. 
As is the case with all these cooperative transitions, the cells that 
were integrated into multicellular cooperatives were released from the 
need to perform all the functions necessary for survival and flourishing. 
This freed them to specialize in ways that served the cooperative's needs. 
Consequently, we find significant diversification and specialization 
among the cells within multicellular organisms, including within our 
bodies. 
In a repetition of the pattern underlying these first two major 
transitions, cooperatives of multicellular organisms emerged, spread, 
and diversified. These manifested as insect societies and eventually as 
cooperative groups of some mammals, including primates. 
This pattern was again repeated with the evolution of cooperative 
groups of humans. The first of these were kin groups, e.g., a family of 
individuals who were very closely related genetically. Bands and then 
tribes emerged once evolution had solved the problem of how to form 
stable cooperatives of unrelated individuals who previously competed 
destructively with each other. These were followed by cooperatives of 
tribes that eventually produced agricultural communities, kingdoms, and 
city-states. Cooperatives of these produced empires and, eventually, the 
modern nation-state. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
250 
 
This process of integration began with cooperatives of molecular 
processes that were less than one-millionth of a meter in diameter. In a 
step-wise process of increasing integration, it has now produced Nations 
and cooperatives of Nations that span continents.  
At each step in the integrative process, groups of smaller-scale 
entities formed cooperatives that became larger-scale entities at the next 
level. 
This progressive integration is driven by the adaptive benefits of 
cooperation. At every level of organisation, cooperative teams have the 
potential to out-compete isolated individuals that live and act alone. 
Cooperative groups have the potential to develop greater power, 
command more resources, act over greater scales, and become more 
evolvable. They can also take advantage of the efficiencies and 
synergies that are enabled by a division of labour and specialisation. 
Before integration emerges at a particular level, the smaller-scale 
entities compete against each other. Until appropriate management 
emerges, smaller-scale entities that are cooperators will tend to be out-
competed by entities that do not cooperate and that free-ride on the 
cooperation of others. This prevents the emergence of complex 
cooperation, no matter how potentially beneficial the cooperation might 
be. 
As we have seen, this barrier to the emergence of cooperative 
organisation can be overcome by an effective form of powerful 
management. Such a manager has the power to reach across the 
organisation to punish free-riders and support cooperation. Effective 
management will align the interests of the smaller-scale entities with the 
manager's interests. 
Competition between managed organisations will then tend to 
align the manager's interests with those of the organisation as a whole. 
As a result, smaller-scale entities that pursue only their own immediate 
interests will thereafter act in the interests of the large-scale 
organisation. Within emerging larger-scale organisations, cooperation 
will pay. Free-riding will not. 
Once managed organisations emerge, continued competition 
between them will drive an entification process. Given that the interests 

 
The Power of the Evolutionary Worldview 
 
 
251 
 
of both the manager and the smaller-scale entities are all aligned with 
those of the emerging entity as a whole, selection will favour adaptations 
that equip large-scale entities with the capacity to adapt and evolve as 
coordinated wholes. 
Increasingly, this will enhance the ability of the large-scale 
entities to act, adapt, and evolve as coherent entities in their own right. 
For example, in the cooperative groups of cells that eventually produced 
humans, this process of entification drove the emergence of brains, 
nervous systems, and adaptive capabilities. 
If there had been no barrier to the emergence of beneficial 
cooperation, evolution on Earth would not have taken over three billion 
years to get to the current point where integration is being achieved on 
the scale of continents. Instead, it would have proceeded much more 
quickly until integration had occurred on the scale of the planet as a 
whole. It is only the evolutionary impediments to the emergence of 
complex cooperation in unorganised groups that has prevented the rapid 
emergence of integration. 
Currently, evolution on Earth has reached the point where 
integration is just one step away from occurring on the scale of the 
planet, potentially producing a unified, cooperative, sustainable, and 
highly-evolvable global entity. At present, however, we are still at the 
stage where smaller-scale entities in the form of nation-states and 
multinational corporations continue to compete destructively. They have 
not yet integrated into a large, cooperative whole. 
This destructive competition manifests in the form of 
environmental degradation and the threat of nuclear war. The entities 
involved in this competition are the largest in scale, power, and 
evolvability that have ever existed so far during the evolution of life on 
Earth. As such, their destructive competition has the potential to threaten 
the continued existence of human civilization and many other living 
processes on Earth. 
As I have discussed earlier, a proper understanding of the past 
evolution of life on Earth identifies how these existential threats can be 
overcome. The same organisational architectures that have terminated 
destructive competition and promoted cooperation at lower levels, can 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
252 
 
also do so at the level of nation-states. Appropriate management can 
ensure that destructive competition is no longer in the interests of nation-
states, multinational corporations, or other entities below the global 
level. 
This management can establish a highly-evolvable system of 
governance that ensures that any actions that act against the interests of 
the global organisation are disincentivized. No longer would it be in the 
interests of any entities to act in ways that are environmentally 
destructive or that could otherwise contribute to existential threats. 
Of course, as I have discussed previously, it would be essential to 
ensure that the individuals and processes that constitute the system of 
global governance are also appropriately constrained. These constraints 
are necessary to ensure that their interests are aligned with those of the 
global society as a whole. This will prevent exploitation and abuse of 
power by global management. 
The great challenge that faces the evolutionary process when it 
reaches this stage is that natural selection will no longer exist to drive 
the emergence and entification of the global entity. Natural selection is 
driven by competition between the members of a population of entities. 
However, once the integration process has progressed to the global 
stage, there is only one entity at the planetary level. There is no 
population of competing entities that will drive the selection of global 
entities that are better adapted and more evolvable. 
In the absence of selection generated by a population of global 
entities, entification is likely to occur only if it is driven intentionally by 
humans. In order to identify what needs to be done to produce 
entification, humanity will need to draw upon its understanding of 
previous entification processes at lower levels, and also its knowledge of 
the trajectory of evolution. This in turn will require cognitive capacity at 
the metasystemic level. 
Why might humanity be motivated to do this? Individuals with 
the requisite cognitive capacity will see that doing so is essential for the 
survival and flourishing of life on Earth, now and into the future. It is 
only as a fully-developed global entity that humanity will be able to 
participate in and contribute positively to the future successful evolution 

 
The Power of the Evolutionary Worldview 
 
 
253 
 
of life in the universe. To stop short of producing a fully-developed 
global entity would be like a baby stubbornly refusing to leave the 
womb. The consequences would be just as disastrous. 
If the evolution of life on Earth is, as it seems, a developmental 
process that is set up to produce a global entity, why would it be set up 
so that its successful completion depends on humans developing higher-
level cognition and deciding to complete the process intentionally? If 
this developmental process has been shaped by larger-scale selection, 
why would all this not just be pre-programmed? 
However, this is exactly what might be expected of a 
developmental process that has been shaped and tuned by larger-scale 
evolutionary processes that act at the extra-planetary level. None of the 
developmental processes that produce living organisms are set up to 
proceed mechanistically, with each and every step in the process pre-
programmed. If they were, developmental processes would be extremely 
fragile—any disturbance would likely disrupt the process seriously. For 
this reason, all developmental processes make use of the adaptability of 
the entities that constitute the developmental process. The actions that 
the entities need to take in order to produce development are not pre-
programmed in detail. 
A development process that comprises constituent entities that 
possess metasystemic cognition will have a much greater potential to 
develop a complex and evolvable larger-scale entity than will entities at 
the analytical/rational level. For this reason, successful developmental 
processes will tend to make use of the highest capacities of which their 
constituent entities are capable. It is, therefore, no coincidence that the 
developmental process in which we are embedded is demanding that 
humanity transition to metasystemic cognition. 
Broadly, entification at the global level would require the 
establishment of a highly-evolvable system of global 
governance/management. This global governance would need to manage 
not only humanity and organisations of humans, but also all technologies 
(including AI), all other living processes on the planet (including 
ecosystems), and relevant bio-geo-chemical cycles and systems. In 
general, all the living and non-living processes of the planet that are 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
254 
 
relevant to the survival and flourishing of the global entity would need 
to be managed to serve the interests of the entity. 
The processes that constitute global governance would also 
comprise AI and other relevant technologies, as well as humans and the 
other living and non-living processes that support them. 
Furthermore, global entification would require the development 
of structures and processes that enable the global entity to act, adapt and 
evolve as a coherent whole. Using the terminology developed by the 
great systems thinker Stafford Beer, initially this would mean 
developing the capacity to adapt and evolve 'for the inside/now'. In 
effect, this would involve developing internal processes that regulate and 
organise the 'metabolism' of the global entity. These include the 
economic systems and market processes that function within the entity. 
In turn, these include processes that acquire and distribute energy and 
other raw materials, and also the processes that determine which 
particular goods and services are produced internally. 
At present, some markets that function on a global scale have 
emerged already. However, the emerging global system currently has 
little capacity to adapt for what Beer refers to as 'the outside/future'. 
This is the capacity of an entity to adapt in relation to events that occur 
external to the entity, including events that occur in the future. In 
general, this entails the capacity of an entity to achieve its goals by 
acting upon and modifying its external environment. A simple example 
of a global entity adapting for the outside/future would be a case in 
which the entity detects an asteroid that is about to collide with Earth, 
and then destroys the asteroid before it does so. 
For an emerging global entity to adapt and evolve for its 
outside/future, it needs the ability to act and adapt as a coherent whole. 
In order to adapt in relation to future events, an entity also needs the 
ability to form models of the future consequences of its actions, and to 
use these models to identify the actions that will adapt it optimally, 
given future predictions. 
Of course, the individual humans that constitute the global entity 
will not need to know how they should adapt individually in order to 
produce the optimal adaptation of the global entity. Instead, they will be 

 
The Power of the Evolutionary Worldview 
 
 
255 
 
like cells in our bodies. Our cells do not know us, care about us, or 
understand our needs. They simply pursue their cellular needs and goals. 
Yet, their collective actions produce our speech, movements, and so on. 
This occurs because once our brains decide how we should act in 
a particular situation, they initiate actions that change the environments 
of the relevant cells. These changes ensure that when the cells adapt to 
them, they collectively produce the desired adaptation of our bodies as a 
whole. 
In a similar fashion, the management of the global entity will 
embed citizens and organisations of citizens in a system of incentives 
and disincentives. These will evoke the actions needed to adapt the 
global entity. By pursuing their immediate human interests, citizens will 
serve the adaptive interests of the global entity. 
From the perspective of individuals, citizenship of a global entity 
will increase the range of choices available to them, not restrict them. It 
will not reduce their freedom. They will continue to be able to decide 
freely what career to follow, what work to do, and how to spend their 
income. But now they will be able to choose freely from a much greater 
array of options. The internal diversification that will emerge within a 
global entity as it develops will massively multiply the available choices.  
A key difference from the present is that whatever work they 
choose, citizens of the global society will know that their job will serve 
the interests of the global society as a whole. This obviously cannot be 
said of many of the work opportunities offered in our current societies. 
Currently, many jobs involve work that is helping to drive existential 
crises that threaten human survival and flourishing. 
Nor will the global entity impose uniformity on its citizens. An 
organisation's adaptability and creativity depend on the diversity of its 
members' perspectives, skills, and capacities. Hence, the global entity 
will enhance its effective diversity by ensuring that the potential of all 
citizens is fully realized, no matter their ethnic and cultural backgrounds. 
Universal education, minimum income, and health care across the entire 
planet will be some of the key foundations of any global entity that is set 
up to maximize its evolvability. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
256 
 
Without natural selection generated by competition between 
global entities, the development of a capacity to adapt for the 
outside/future will not be driven automatically. It will emerge only as a 
result of the conscious action of its members. If a global entity is to 
develop this capacity, the complex global structures, systems, and 
processes that enable it will have to be built intentionally by humanity, 
at least initially. Given the dynamical complexity of the tasks needed to 
achieve this, it will also require cognition at least at the metasystemic 
level. 
Once these enabling arrangements are in place, the global entity 
will be able to adapt as a coherent whole. It will be able to implement 
particular actions by orchestrating appropriately the behaviour of its 
constituent entities. 
Eventually, in order to enhance its evolvability, the global entity 
will need to develop the capacity to recursively improve its own 
cognitive capacities. It will also have to become a self-evolving being. 
This will necessitate it freeing itself from the dictates of its evolutionary 
past, including from the evolutionary pasts of the humans that constitute 
it. This is likely to require the use of meditation-like processes that 
enable it to dis-embed from lower-level processes in order to build a 
higher-level self that is free from the constraints of lower levels. The 
global entity will recursively develop the capacity to re-make itself 
repeatedly to meet whatever evolutionary demands it foresees in its 
future. An important component of its capacity to envisage likely future 
events will be its theories of evolution, particularly its mental models of 
the future trajectory of evolution.  
Can the existence of the trajectory of evolution provide meaning 
and purpose for human existence? 
The processes that produced the trajectory of evolution on Earth 
are not likely to be unique to this planet. It has become increasingly 
evident that there are many millions of planets elsewhere in the universe 
that appear to be as life-friendly as Earth. Furthermore, an understanding 
of what it actually takes for life to emerge suggests that it is not likely to 
be extremely rare and improbable. All that is needed is the emergence of 

 
The Power of the Evolutionary Worldview 
 
 
257 
 
collectively autocatalytic chemical processes that become to be managed 
by, for example, RNA-like molecules. 
The identity of the particular molecules that instantiate this 
management architecture may differ significantly among planets on 
which life emerges. But the architecture is likely to be the same. 
This can also be said about subsequent major cooperative 
evolutionary transitions. The processes that have driven these transitions 
on Earth are not unique to Earth. They do not require anything rare or 
improbable. Like the emergence of life itself, all they require is the 
emergence of groups of entities that are somewhat collectively self-
producing, and the emergence of powerful managers that have the 
capacity to manage groups in ways that comprehensively overcome the 
barrier to cooperation. 
Again, the architecture of each subsequent cooperative transition 
is likely to be similar across planets on which life emerges, but the 
details of the entities involved in the transitions are likely to differ. 
Importantly, the trajectory of evolution on each planet seems 
likely to culminate in the emergence of an entity that encompasses the 
planet. Again, the processes that are proceeding towards this outcome on 
Earth do not appear to be peculiar to Earth, nor do they seem rare or 
improbable. 
What is going on in our universe? 
Imagine that we could observe this process unfolding across 
many planets in our galaxy. At different times, we would see life emerge 
on particular planets. Or single cells might arrive from elsewhere. 
Wherever life commenced on a planet, we would see it diversify across 
the planet. Then, we would see it progressively become integrated in a 
step-wise process. Eventually, we would witness the emergence of a 
living entity on the scale of the planet. This global entity would undergo 
a process of entification, developing the capacity to adapt and evolve as 
a coherent whole. 
Now imagine observing these events unfold across planets, but 
with the process sped up so that it takes only an hour or so of our time 
for the full evolutionary trajectory to complete itself on any given planet. 
In the overwhelming majority of instances in which we see life begin on 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
258 
 
a planet, we will then see it develop rapidly to produce a living entity on 
the scale of the planet. As we watch, the evolutionary process on many 
planets will soon hatch a global entity. 
Overall, we will witness a process that looks like it has been set 
up to develop and hatch global entities on suitable planets. The process 
that unfolds on a particular planet will look like an embryo that 
commences as a single cell and then progressively develops structures 
and processes of larger and larger scale. These arrangements are 
destined to eventually perform particular functions within the global 
organism that develops from the embryo. It will appear as if what we are 
observing is a developmental process that has been pre-programmed to 
eventually hatch an organism on the scale of the planet. 
Equipped with metasystemic cognition, we can zoom out in time 
and space, and observe how these processes will unfold further into the 
future. We see that once global entities develop the capacity to adapt and 
evolve for the outside/future, they begin to communicate with each other 
(fully-developed global entities will not attempt to communicate or 
interact with life on a planet that has not yet produced a global organism. 
In order to develop the structures and processes that are needed if a 
global entity is to develop fully, the components of a developing entity 
will need to be conditioned by the developmental challenges that they 
will encounter at earlier stages. Contact with advanced entities could 
circumvent and prevent this essential learning. For example, it is highly 
unlikely that humanity would go through the long and difficult process 
of developing an effective form of global governance unless destructive 
competition at the level of nation-states demands that we do so. This is 
not a process that can be easily circumvented through external 
intervention.) 
As we continue to watch, we see cooperative organisations of 
global entities emerge and evolve. These organisations of planetary 
entities themselves undergo entification processes and form yet larger 
cooperative organisations. And so on. The goals of these larger-scale 
entities are as unimaginable to us as our love lives to the bacteria in our 
gut. 

 
The Power of the Evolutionary Worldview 
 
 
259 
 
We see that when dealing with other global entities, entities are 
guided by the evolutionary worldview that they used initially to guide 
their emergence and entification. As we have seen, this worldview 
indicates that evolutionary success depends on entering into cooperative 
relationships of ever-increasing scale. Furthermore, it demonstrates that 
doing so can be achieved safely and without self-sacrifice by 
establishing higher-level management that facilitates cooperation and 
suppresses free-riding and defection. 
Eventually, we see that the universe becomes infused with life 
and hatches an agentic entity on the scale of the universe. It is possible 
that entities at this level might reproduce universes. The resultant natural 
selection between universes might constitute the larger-scale selective 
processes that, as mentioned earlier, might shape and tune the 
developmental processes within universes that hatch global entities and 
ultimately produce entities on the scale of the universe. 
However, at this stage, these are only possibilities. Evidence 
does not yet exist to test these or other possibilities.22 
Equipped with metasystemic cognition, we can also zoom in to 
examine more closely particular phases, events, and challenges that are 
common across planets as life develops on them. 
We begin by focusing on the emergence of organisms such as 
humans that develop the capacity to form mental models of their 
environment and their interactions with it. We see that on each planet on 
which such organisms emerge, they typically undergo something like the 
First Enlightenment in which many of them develop the capacity to form 
mental models that include abstract representations as well as ones that 
are concrete (in Piagetian terms, they transition from the concrete 
operations level to the formal operations level. In the terminology I am 
using, the formal operations level equates broadly to analytical/rational 
thinking). As we watch, we see this transition give rise rapidly to science 
and technological development, including industrialization. 
Eventually, these intelligent organisms have their Darwin: one or 
more individuals use their capacity for abstract/rational modelling to 
 
22 Stewart (2010) - see References 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
260 
 
develop a basic theory of biological evolution driven by natural 
selection. 
As we continue to watch, this new evolutionary perspective 
combines with analytical/rational thinking to begin to undermine 
religious belief systems. Previously, these belief systems orchestrated 
the organism's behaviours, including in ways that tended to produce 
viable social systems. We see that the undermining of religious beliefs 
tends also to undermine the effective functioning of their social systems. 
Eventually, we begin to see the emergence of individuals with 
metasystemic cognition. As metasystemic cognition spreads, increasing 
numbers of individuals are able to construct mental models that enable 
them to understand the kinds of complex dynamical architectures that 
need to be put in place to ensure that their societies function effectively 
for all their members. The organism now becomes capable of building 
effective social systems consciously and intentionally, without the aid of 
religious beliefs. 
Increasingly, we see individuals emerge who have developed and 
embraced a complex evolutionary worldview. For them, this changes 
everything. They no longer see themselves as isolated individuals who 
live for a short period in a universe entirely indifferent to their existence. 
Instead, they see themselves and their societies as having been produced 
and shaped by larger-scale evolutionary processes that will continue to 
shape life on their planet in the future. 
As we continue to watch, they begin to realize that the 
evolutionary process that is unfolding on their planet looks very much 
like the processes that unfold as an embryo develops. It is as if life on 
their planet has been set up to eventually give birth to a living entity on 
the scale of the planet. They see that this entity will go on to develop its 
own agency, acting and adapting as a coherent whole. We also see the 
realization spread that these evolutionary processes are likely to unfold 
in a similar way on planets elsewhere, wherever life emerges. 
But as we watch, an even more significant and powerful 
realization emerges and spreads amongst the organisms that are 
equipped with metasystemic cognition. This realization changes how 

 
The Power of the Evolutionary Worldview 
 
 
261 
 
these organisms understand themselves, and also what they do with their 
lives. 
Their astonishing realization is that the developmental process 
will succeed in hatching a global entity only if they choose to do what is 
necessary to produce this outcome. 
They see that up to this point, the evolution of life on a planet 
unfolds automatically, driven by blind natural selection. But if it is to 
progress beyond this, it must be driven intentionally. 
We continue to watch as their growing understanding of 
evolution causes them to realize that they have specific roles to perform 
in the developmental process. These roles are critically important. If 
they do not intentionally fulfill them, life on their planet will be like an 
egg that goes rotten and never hatches. Life on their planet will have no 
relevant role in the future evolution of life in the universe. It will not 
hatch a global entity, it will not participate in communities of global 
entities, and so on. 
We watch as a significant proportion of the individuals equipped 
with metasystemic cognition make the transition to intentional evolution. 
They commit to being evolutionary activists who will do whatever they 
can to advance the evolutionary process on their planet and ensure that 
the developmental process is completed successfully. 
We see these individuals realize that they need to develop a 
proto-global entity as a matter of urgency. At this stage in the evolution 
of life on their planet, fewer than 300 large-scale societies exist. They 
know from their understanding of the trajectory of evolution that 
destructive competition inevitably emerges between the largest-scale 
entities that exist at any time. At this stage in the evolution of life on 
their planet, this destructive competition is powered by advanced 
technological development. As we watch, destructive competition drives 
environmental degradation, the threat of global war, and other existential 
threats. The organisms see this also. 
We see the organisms adopt as a priority the goal of 
implementing a system of global management that will terminate this 
destructive competition and promote global cooperation. They act as if 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
262 
 
there is a race between the organisation of a proto-global entity and the 
destruction of their civilization. 
As part of their strategy for actualizing a global entity, they 
realize that they need to spread their evolutionary worldview as quickly 
as possible. They realize that metasystemic cognition is a prerequisite 
for understanding a complex evolutionary worldview and its 
implications for what they must do. 
As we watch, they also realize that if they are to actively 
implement strategies designed to advance the evolutionary process, they 
will need to become self-evolving beings—they will need to free 
themselves from the constraints of their genetic, cultural, and social past 
and to find satisfaction and motivation in whatever actions they need to 
take to advance the evolutionary process. 
We see that initially, strategies for moving towards a system of 
global governance attract strong resistance. In particular, this opposition 
comes from those who benefit most from the continued dominance of 
the most powerful societies. These wealthy and powerful individuals 
have used their influence and dominance to have their societies impose a 
'rules-based order' at the inter-societal level that enables them to 
continue to exploit other societies. 
However, as we watch, increasing numbers of individuals 
develop metasystemic cognition and embrace an evolutionary 
worldview. Those with metasystemic cognition quickly achieve 
disproportionate power and influence. Their far superior ability to 
strategize effectively in complex circumstances enables them to out-
maneuver those who are limited to analytical/rational thinking. This is 
the case no matter how intelligent the analytical/rational thinkers are at 
their level. Those with metasystemic cognition see and consider things 
that are relevant but that others are blind to. 
We watch as relatively small numbers of individuals with 
metasystemic cognition are able to manipulate societies to ensure that 
they implement pro-evolutionary strategies. 
Soon, we see the institution of a cooperative global society 
underpinned by global governance. This ends the perilously dangerous 
period in which destructive competition between technologically 

 
The Power of the Evolutionary Worldview 
 
 
263 
 
powerful societies drove existential threats. We watch as those guided 
by an evolutionary worldview begin to work on building the evolvability 
and agency of the emerging global entity. Those with metasystemic 
cognition become cells in the brain of the global entity. 
We zoom out again and shift our focus to other planets. We focus 
on those that have reached the perilous period in which destructive 
competition between sub-global societies is driving existential threats. 
In the overwhelming majority of instances that we observe, 
metasystemic cognition and the evolutionary worldview spread 
sufficiently to institute a global system before destructive competition 
produces irreversible damage. But in a small number, the race is lost. 
We watch as the developmental process on these planets fails. They do 
not hatch a viable global entity. 
The impact of destructive competition on these planets destroys 
the complex technological civilizations that have emerged. We see that 
the accumulated fossil fuels that 'pumped up' this complexity have been 
used up, and these civilizations are no longer sustainable. Furthermore, 
we see that there is no rebound effect. Life has used up the readily 
accessible energy sources essential to produce complex technological 
civilizations. The yolk that was needed to fuel the development of the 
embryo has been used up. 
*    *    * 
What has all this got to do with you? 
At this time, on this planet, evolution has reached the perilous 
stage in which powerful sub-global entities compete destructively. These 
competing entities have the scale, power, and technological means to 
seriously damage the ability of Earth to sustain complex life. 
Unchecked, this destructive competition between nation-states, 
multinational corporations, and other powerful entities seems likely to 
end human civilization this century. 
The rise of analytical/rational cognition has killed God and 
eroded the pro-social benefits of religious systems. Somewhat 
paradoxically, many of the most dangerous people on the planet claim to 
be religious or pander to others who hold religious beliefs. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
264 
 
Almost no individuals or organisations have yet developed 
metasystemic cognition. Consequently, nearly all people and 
organisations are unable to develop effective mental models of the 
competitive dynamics, economic processes, political systems, and other 
complex processes that are driving existential threats. Consequently, 
almost no one on the planet at this time is equipped to identify the kinds 
of complex strategies needed to end the destructive competition that 
threatens the survival of human civilization. 
Due to the extreme rarity of metasystemic cognition, almost no 
one on the planet has embraced a complex evolutionary worldview that 
provides an understanding of the large-scale evolutionary processes that 
have shaped life on Earth and that will determine its future. Very few 
see that the only viable way out of the perilous period in which we find 
ourselves necessitates the establishment of a unified, cooperative, and 
highly-evolvable global entity that is underpinned by appropriate global 
governance. 
Even fewer individuals have done the considerable work on 
themselves necessary to become self-evolving beings. Those who have 
not done so find that their efforts to advance the evolutionary process on 
Earth are continually undermined by conflicting genetic, cultural, and 
social predispositions implanted in them by past evolution and 
conditioning. 
As was the case for intelligent organisms on the other planets 
that we have imagined, all humans alive during this dangerous period 
who become aware of the evolutionary worldview are faced with 
difficult choices. These are choices that you face. 
You now know that you and your fellow humans are embedded 
in larger processes that are headed somewhere and that are not random 
and meaningless. You are embedded in a developmental process that is 
directed at producing a highly-evolvable global entity. However, you 
also know that this process will not be completed successfully and will 
not hatch a viable global entity unless sufficient humans wake up to an 
evolutionary worldview. They must then commit intentionally to 
devoting their lives to doing whatever is necessary to help develop a 
living entity on the scale of the planet. 

 
The Power of the Evolutionary Worldview 
 
 
265 
 
This can include contributing to the spread of the evolutionary 
worldview and producing an evolutionary awakening (the Second 
Enlightenment that I have referred to will be an Evolutionary 
Enlightenment if these efforts are successful); working on yourself to 
fully develop metasystemic cognition and the capacity to be self-
evolving; contributing to the spread of these higher capacities to others; 
contributing to the development and implementation of strategies that 
will institute an appropriate system of global governance that will 
organise a proto-global entity; and working on establishing systems and 
processes that will enhance the evolvability of the global entity and that 
will eventually enable it to participate in communities of global entities. 
Will you commit to a life dedicated to this evolutionary work? 
Will you make the transition to becoming an intentional evolutionary, an 
evolutionary activist? Will you work on yourself in order to make 
yourself a more effective intentional evolutionary? Will you, for 
example, embark on an arduous process of recursive self-improvement 
to develop metasystemic cognition and to become self-evolving? And so 
on? And so on? 
Or will you continue to act in ways that contribute to the 
continuation of 'business as usual', becoming an accessory to the likely 
end of human civilization this century? 
Do you find the required transformations of yourself as an 
individual and of the society in which you are embedded, too daunting 
and overwhelming? 
Exposure to the evolutionary worldview will tend to erode your 
motivation to spend your life like a 'normal' human being. Currently, as 
I have mentioned, humans endlessly pursue the positive feelings 
produced by experiences such as popularity, self-esteem, sex, feelings of 
uniqueness, power, eating, and social status. They strive to avoid the 
negative feelings that accompany experiences such as stress, guilt, 
depression, loneliness, hunger, and shame. 
Informed by an evolutionary understanding, you will find it 
increasingly difficult to experience meaning or purpose in a life lived in 
this way. You will see that actions motivated by these desires and 
emotions are absurd. These predispositions were shaped by past 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
266 
 
evolution to cause you to act in ways that were adapted to the 
circumstances that existed then. 
To continue to live your life pursuing desires that you now know 
are often maladaptive and that may contribute to the demise of human 
civilization will make your life an absurdity. You will be like a toy 
soldier that marches across the floor until it walks into a wall and falls 
onto its back. It continues to march on and on, going nowhere, until its 
battery dies. It does not have the capacity to adapt to its changed 
circumstances. 
The main difference between you and the toy soldier is that it 
does not have a choice. It cannot construct mental models of alternative 
actions and choose the most adaptive ones. 
If you have had the misfortune to read and understand this book, 
you will never be able to 'un-see' the absurdity of your life up to this 
point. If you continue to live such a life, you will be disturbed until you 
die. The easier option will be to undertake the relevant evolutionary 
transitions.

 
267 
 
20. 
 
 
 
Further Work on Myself 
 
I was extremely lucky in 2017 and again in 2023 to encounter 
circumstances that strongly incentivized me to work on myself more 
seriously than I had ever done before. In both instances, it became a 
matter of life and death. 
I mentioned earlier that life was generally very easy for me. I 
could use my abilities to get whatever I wanted. I was a master at 
strategically avoiding circumstances that were likely to impact me 
negatively. 
This changed fundamentally in 2017. My youngest daughter 
Libby left a difficult relationship, taking her 9-month-old son William 
with her. But under Australia's family law system, this did not mean that 
she could disentangle her life from her ex-partner, William's father. In 
fact, it linked her life permanently to his, given that he insisted on 
exercising his right to share custody of William. 
I thoroughly researched the relevant legislation and case law, but 
could not find a way in which Libby and William could be extricated 
from the mess. 
On top of this, Libby, who was an exceptional primary school 
teacher, noticed that William was showing unmistakable signs of autism. 
Libby's assessment of William was based on her experience with 
schoolchildren. She had found that every primary school class that she 
taught included at least one or two children with autistic tendencies who 
were undiagnosed. She had become good at spotting them and at 
tailoring her teaching to their particular needs. 
I researched this also, and came to the same conclusion. We were 
haunted by a vision of William never developing sufficiently to get a 
normal job, and never being able to live independently. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
268 
 
The fact that William was probably on the autism spectrum 
connected some dots for me. When he was around 9 months old, I 
looked after William during the day while Libby, now a single mother, 
went back to work as a teacher three days a week. Each morning when 
Libby was teaching, I would put William in the pram and take him on 
the train to Libby's school for breastfeeding. 
William and I got on really well during the long hours we spent 
together. I would work on my laptop while he would spend hours on the 
floor doing what I called his 'physics experiments' with objects and 
toys. Every fifteen minutes or so, I would feel him look up towards me. I 
would look back at him, and we would both smile at each other. Then 
we would both go back happily to our important tasks.  
I am now much more aware of why we bonded so quickly, 
deeply, and simply. We were two little autistic mates hanging out 
together. 
As I researched autism. I was horrified to discover that early 
intervention was the key to overcoming some of the key limitations 
faced by many autistic children. Furthermore, the interventions had to 
involve extensive therapy—around 15 hours a week. This was very bad 
news because in Australia, it was extremely difficult to get a 
paediatrician to diagnose a child with autism before two or three years of 
age. This is despite the fact that interventions are initiated most 
productively when the child is 12 months or so. 
I hit the phones. I was extremely lucky to find that the best 
Government-funded program in Australia for autistic children was 
looking for an autistic baby to participate in their program. They would 
diagnose William immediately. If he met their criteria, he would attend 
their child care center three days a week, receiving 15 hours of intensive 
therapy delivered by a multi-disciplinary team. 
For three-year-olds, the waiting list for this program was 
massively over-subscribed. Parents of older children considered that to 
get their child into the program was like winning the lottery. But because 
Libby was able to notice so early that William was on the autism 
spectrum, there was no waiting list for him. For some time, the program 

 
Further Work on Myself 
 
 
269 
 
had been on the lookout for autistic babies to participate in their 
research. 
The program was a great success for William. He went from 
beginning to be a 'head-banger' to going to a mainstream school as a 
six-year-old. Now, people would be as unlikely to suspect that he is 
autistic than they would suspect that I am. 
In the midst of these troubles, I was completely absorbed in 
thinking and worrying. I did not remember very often to come into the 
present and to watch the thinking and the worries as they arose and 
dissipated. Largely, I failed to use the skills that I had developed to get 
psychological distance from my worries. 
Above all, I was focused solely on protecting my little girl Libby 
and her son from the world of pain that faced them. Consequently, I 
forgot that I would be able to deal more effectively with these challenges 
if I stood outside them psychologically, and was able to think about 
them clearly and calmly. I fell into the trap of being embedded in the 
problems and identified with them. 
I began to notice that I was feeling continually agitated and 
unsettled. This was combined with feelings of danger and dread about 
the future. Everything I thought of doing seemed fraught with problems 
and impossibilities. 
Quickly, this became continuous and unbearable. I did not know 
what was going on. I did not recognise it immediately as anxiety. 
Throughout my entire life, I could not remember ever feeling like this 
before. I had never felt anxious. 
It went on and on. Nothing I did would stop it. I hardly slept. 
Life became impossible. On a train trip home after visiting Libby, I 
found that I was getting so anxious that I could not stay sitting on the 
train. I got off at the next station and paced around, waiting for the 
following train. Then, I repeated the process. It took hours to get home. 
I was in no condition to research what might be causing these 
problems, nor to think deeply about how to use my existing skills and 
knowledge to overcome them. I tried a couple of doctors, a psychologist, 
and eventually, the 'suicide helpline', but it went on and on, 24/7. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
270 
 
I did not know whether anything could stop it. I thought that if I 
had to experience this hell for as long as I lived, I would have no option 
but to turn off life support. I thought that the only sensible thing to do 
would be to kill myself. 
My last resort before this was to get booked into a mental health 
facility as an inpatient. I had no idea what to expect when I eventually 
took up this option. The only thing I had heard was that they would 
pump you full of Valium and possibly get you addicted to it. 
The Clinic allocated me a psychiatrist. Previously, I had little 
contact with Jewish people. But to me, he seemed like the archetypal 
Jewish psychiatrist, with a big white beard, a skull cap, traditional 
clothes, and well over seventy years old. For me, he was a believable 
father figure. I found that I could put faith in his treatment. I was able to 
get a strong placebo effect for the first time since I was a kid. I really 
must have been mad. 
They pumped me full of Valium together with an antidepressant 
and a 'mood stabilizer'. It quickly killed the anxiety. Since then, I have 
not had general anxiety disorder again. From time to time, I have felt 
anxiety in my body, but it has been intermittent, not continuous. 
These transient feelings of anxiety are unlike general anxiety 
disorder. They do not persist indefinitely in the absence of any external 
events or internal circumstances that are likely to cause anxiety. The 
only serious anxiety I have felt since my time in the Clinic has been 
caused by the side effects of psychiatric drugs, or by withdrawal from 
them. 
After two and a half weeks in the Clinic, I told my psychiatrist 
that I was feeling good, and that I would stop having the Valium. At the 
end of three weeks in the Clinic, I went home. 
Unfortunately, this was not the end of my issues. But it was just 
the beginning of their beneficial effects on my development. 
I had no withdrawal effects from ending the 20 milligrams of 
Valium a day that I was prescribed. I had got off it soon enough. But this 
was not the case when I stopped taking the 'mood stabilizer', 
Olanzapine. I found that when I stopped taking it, anxiety returned. 

 
Further Work on Myself 
 
 
271 
 
When I started taking it again, the anxiety dissipated. And so on, every 
time I tried to get off it. 
My psychiatrist told me that the anxiety arose because the 
original symptoms of my mental illness were returning whenever I 
stopped the drug. According to him, this demonstrated that I would need 
to take Olanzapine for the rest of my life. 
This would not have been a problem for me if Olanzapine did not 
produce unpleasant and debilitating side effects. The worst for me was 
that it disrupted my short-term memory. I found, for example, that when 
I was preparing a presentation to be delivered to an international 
conference at the Australia National University about the trajectory of 
evolution, I could not remember the points that I intended to make. I had 
to include all of these in detail on the PowerPoint slides that I used, and 
read from them during my talk. 
Fortunately, I was now functioning well in most other respects, 
and I could research the scientific literature and anecdotal evidence 
about the issues I was experiencing with Olanzapine. I discovered that 
the apparent withdrawal symptoms I was suffering whenever I stopped 
the drug were almost certainly just that—withdrawal symptoms. They 
were not a recurrence of the original symptoms, and not a sign that I 
needed to take Olanzapine for the rest of my life. 
I discovered that Olanzapine was originally developed as an 
antipsychotic. Because of the 'zombifying' effects that made it useful as 
an anti-psychotic, it could also suppress moods and changes in moods. 
For this reason, it has been increasingly used 'off label' as an adjunct in 
the treatment of mood disorders, including anxiety. 
Fortunately, my research indicated that Olanzapine and other 
psychiatric medicines could be discontinued safely and easily if their use 
was tapered down over a long period of time. I applied this approach to 
my attempts to get off Olanzapine. After several false starts in which I 
reduced the dosage too quickly, I got off it. No more anxiety, no more 
impaired short-term memory, and no other side effects. And no return of 
my original illness. 
However, the process of trying to wean myself off Olanzapine 
provided me with some extremely useful practice in enhancing my skills 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
272 
 
for becoming self-evolving. Whenever I reduced the dose, I would 
experience anxiety symptoms for at least a few days. They would go 
away if I returned to the previous dose, but doing this was not going to 
get me off Olanzapine once and for all. 
If I was to become drug-free, and if I was to be able to conquer 
anxiety forever, it was obvious what I had to do. I had to come into the 
present, observe in detail the actual feelings in my body that I experience 
as anxiety, sit with those feelings without any reaction or judgment, and 
radically accept the feelings in my body for as long as they persisted, 
even if they were going to be there for the rest of my life. 
Whenever I reduced my dose, I could look forward to having the 
opportunity to practice and strengthen these skills which are central to 
the development of a capacity for self-evolution. Before long, my use of 
the practices extinguished the psychological connection that previously 
existed between the feelings of anxiety and the negative reactions that 
the feelings triggered. 
No longer would the sensations in my body that were associated 
with anxiety cause me to interpret the sensations as a signal that I was 
faced with unavoidable dangers. Now, I could still have the sensations, 
but they no longer operated as an unignorable alarm, signalling that I 
had serious issues. Now, the sensations were just sensations, no more a 
problem than any other kind of sensations in my body, such as the 
feeling of the contact between the soles of my feet and the floor. 
Of course, I had known about the effectiveness of such a practice 
for many years. As I have outlined, I had applied it previously in limited 
circumstances such as when I was dieting or giving up smoking. 
However, my encounter with general anxiety disorder and drug 
withdrawal gave me the opportunity to test it in the most challenging 
circumstance I could imagine. If it could work with general anxiety 
disorder, it could work on any negative emotions or sensations. Perhaps 
it could work on the steps of the US Embassy in Saigon. Perhaps it 
could even work in hell. However, I have no desire to test those 
possibilities. 
For the next six years, I was free from any serious anxiety. On 
occasions, I would become aware of feelings in my body that were like 

 
Further Work on Myself 
 
 
273 
 
the sensations associated with anxiety. I would respond by coming into 
the present, examining the feelings in detail, noting whether they were 
caused by something that I should deal with, and accepting them 
radically. I would soon forget about them. This occurred less and less 
frequently. 
In case this experience with anxiety was a sign that I was 
susceptible to anxiety and depression, I decided to try psychedelics. This 
is something that I had avoided when I was a teenager in the sixties 
when psychedelics were readily available. I liked the mental clarity that 
came with feeling sober and drug-free, and had no incentive to take any 
risks. 
My research indicated that the psychiatric profession did not yet 
have any treatments that could protect me effectively against anxiety or 
depression. Psychiatry had been captured by the pharmaceutical 
corporations. The drugs it prescribed were often addictive and had 
harmful side effects. Psychiatrists knew very little about how to treat 
depression and anxiety successfully. However, there was a growing 
body of scientific evidence that although psychedelics were not a 
panacea, they could outperform standard medicines, without being 
addictive or having bad side effects for most people. 
I commenced with an ayahuasca retreat and also, on a few 
occasions, tried the mushrooms that grow conveniently in Melbourne's 
parks and gardens each winter. I had some very interesting experiences 
that seemed to have possible therapeutic effects. For example, in an 
ayahuasca ceremony, I experienced vividly being birthed by my mother. 
Previously, I had always seen my mother as a tyrant who dominated and 
used my family for her own ends. I still do, but now I also have a strong 
and apparently permanent feeling of gratitude towards her. 
However, my freedom from psychological problems was to end 
in early 2023, soon after I began writing this book. 
I quickly fell into a deep depression. It was a completely 
different kind of experience to my bout of general anxiety disorder that I 
had encountered six years previously. But it was equally horrific. Both 
experiences were like being tortured, but in different ways. Both were 
life-threatening. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
274 
 
Similar to my earlier experience with mental illness, depression 
descended upon me very quickly. As before, I did not have the time to 
research it fully and become an expert on how to overcome it. Again, I 
had to rely largely on others, including the psychiatric profession, 
despite its ignorance and incompetence. 
However, I decided that I would try to get through it myself 
before I would book into the mental health clinic again. 
I tried, but the techniques that I had used to overcome anxiety 
issues did not seem to be able to be applied to depression. Anxiety 
manifests primarily as attention-grabbing sensations in the body. These 
sensations then trigger negative thinking which in turn triggers more 
unpleasant bodily sensations, and so on, in a vicious loop of escalating 
panic. 
In contrast, as far as I could tell, depression did not manifest 
primarily as sensations in the body. Instead, it arose as extremely 
negative thinking that built upon itself in a vicious cycle. I had read that 
this cycle can often also cause and amplify anxiety. However, my 
techniques for dealing with anxiety apparently prevented the escalation 
of my depression into anxiety. Nevertheless, they were not effective 
against depression. 
I discovered that I could escape depression temporarily by 
entering into the state referred to by Gurdjieff as 'self-remembering'. In 
this state, I would enter spacious awareness, but with part of my 
attention focused on my own attention, and the remainder in my 
environment. Placing attention on myself as well as on my environment 
in this way produced a powerful 'I am' experience. In this state, I was 
dis-embedded from any thoughts that arose, and I was free from 
depression. 
I could get into this state while walking around the streets of 
Melbourne. However, intense concentration was required to enter and 
maintain the state. And as soon as I relaxed out of the state, the 
depression would return, strong as ever. Using this technique, I could 
avoid the depression for a time, but it did not weaken it. 

 
Further Work on Myself 
 
 
275 
 
My last resort before taking anti-depressants and going back to 
the Clinic was to try what famed psychonaut Terence McKenna referred 
to as a 'heroic dose' of magic mushrooms. 
The heroic dose produced an extraordinary but largely 
indescribable experience. It catapulted me into what I experienced as 
different realms. They seemed to be at a higher level and more 
encompassing than the reality I experience here. 
I felt as if I was having a series of deep insights, but I could not 
remember them or put them into words.  
The two exceptions came as voices, not insights. The first told 
me that almost all the interactions, strivings, and concerns that we have 
during our life at this level are irrelevant at higher levels. It is 
meaningless noise, no more important than the interactions between 
atoms and molecules in a gas from our perspective. 
I remember every word spoken by the second voice: "Very 
clever, John. But you don't know shit about what is really going on 
here." 
I had to laugh at that. 
But the trip did not act as a magic bullet. The following three 
days were free of depression, but then it returned in full. I was back to 
hell on Earth. 
However, the two insights that I remembered continued to worm 
their way into my unconscious mind, and eventually seemed to 
contribute to some breakthroughs in my evolutionary thinking. But even 
when they did so, this did not seem to have any direct impact on my 
depression. Nevertheless, these experiences did help me to survive the 
bout of mental illness, and fundamentally changed my attitude towards 
suffering. 
I went back to the Victoria Clinic, the same facility I had been in 
six years earlier. It had some great positives: The staff were 
extraordinarily well-trained and friendly; the Clinic had a good team of 
psychologists who provided sessions each day about psychological 
approaches to treating mental illness; and the Clinic only took in patients 
with manageable mental illnesses, not including psychoses. Given that 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
276 
 
the Clinic charged over a thousand dollars a day, nearly all inpatients, 
including myself, had private health insurance that covered the costs. 
I also returned to the psychiatrist who had treated me for anxiety. 
However, the placebo effect had almost entirely dissipated. This was not 
because of any failure on his part to implement appropriate psychiatric 
treatments. It was because I now knew enough about psychiatry to 
understand that it had very little scientific knowledge about how to treat 
mental illness effectively. 
It is not just that psychiatrists are primarily just prescribers of 
drugs. It is far worse than that. The drugs often do not work and, almost 
universally, are addictive and have harsh side effects. Largely, the 
standard treatment strategy is to keep trying different drugs until the 
patient shows some improvement (for whatever reason), or commits 
suicide. For some unfortunate patients, it is more like Russian roulette. 
But as well as prescribing drugs for me, my psychiatrist also put 
a lot of additional psychotherapeutic work into me. I much appreciated 
these efforts and took them very seriously at the time. 
Unsurprisingly, he was convinced that my depression had been 
precipitated by the fact that my two daughters had recently cancelled 
me. It seemed to be a reasonable hypothesis, but even in my depressive 
state, it did not ring true to me. I thought I had come to terms with my 
daughters' rejection. I had recognised that my older daughter Anna and I 
lived on different planets. We were very different kinds of human 
beings. 
I was extremely proud of Anna when she was young because she 
was capable and talented in all areas, including those that I was not. In 
particular, she did not share my autistic tendencies at all. In fact, as well 
as being very smart, she was emotionally highly developed and 
sensitive. In contrast, I am emotionally stunted and have had to work 
hard on myself to develop any emotional sensibilities at all. 
It took me until I was in my sixties before I finally realized that 
Anna's childhood might not have been as much fun and as uplifting as it 
was for me. In particular, I never validated her emotions. Whenever she 
or the family was confronted with a challenge, my go-to strategy was to 
think my way through to a solution. I tended to be dismissive of using 

 
Further Work on Myself 
 
 
277 
 
emotions to guide a way to a solution. Perhaps more significantly, I did 
not consider that the emotional impact of outcomes was particularly 
important in deciding a way forward. 
My rejection of the importance of emotions does not appear to be 
because they are suppressed in me. Rather, it seems to be because many 
are absent in me (of course, suppression can easily be misidentified as 
absence. However, the considerable and diverse efforts that I have made 
during my life to enable these missing emotions to surface have not been 
productive. It seems more likely that their continued absence is a 
consequence of autistic tendencies.) 
In contrast, Anna often used her emotional reactions as important 
factors in her decision-making. While the compass I used to navigate my 
environment was ultra-rational, her compass seemed to combine 
rationality and emotions, with emotions paramount. 
Consequently, throughout her upbringing, I continually 
dismissed and invalidated the part of her that was most central to her 
being. I would point out to her in laborious detail the superiority of 
rationality in specific circumstances. Using impeccable logic, I would 
demonstrate that whenever reason was dominated by emotions, it often 
tended to lead to ineffective decisions. To her, I would have appeared to 
reject and trivialize who she was in her very essence. 
If I had my time over again as a parent, I would do things very 
differently. But I would almost certainly make other mistakes. I would 
also have to remember that some traumas that are unintentionally 
induced by parental actions might be essential for propelling the higher 
development of their children. It is not easy being a parent. 
I wanted very much to be part of my daughters' lives and those of 
their children. I had spent a lot of time with the grandchildren up until 
my daughters were nearly forty and until the older grandkids were about 
to start school. For years, I had looked after one or more of the children 
for a full day a week, and loved every moment of it. 
However, I had accepted that there is no guarantee that your 
children will get on well with you. Certainly, I had not felt love for my 
own parents, and did not get on very well at all with my mother. But 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
278 
 
after my ayahuasca experience, if she were still alive, I would waste no 
time apologising to her for having been a difficult and thankless child. 
For these reasons, I believed that I had come to terms with my 
daughters' rejection of me. I barely thought about it any longer. 
Furthermore, there is a lot of truth in the old adage that time heals all, 
and I hoped that we would eventually reconcile before I died. 
Consequently, I was sceptical that the issue with my daughters had 
produced my depression. Nevertheless, I tried to take my psychiatrist's 
and psychologists' advice and therapy seriously. 
For example, I researched the grieving process and the stages 
that individuals tend to go through before they eventually accept a 
significant loss. But the more I examined my past life, the more I 
realized that I had never felt grief in my life. I had not felt it when my 
favourite pet dog died when I was a little boy, or when my mother died, 
or when my wife left me, or even on the death of my father, who I liked 
quite a lot. 
In fact, I remember that on the day we heard that my father had 
died, Libby was walking around the house asking anyone who cared to 
listen how she was supposed to feel now that her grandfather had just 
died. I have often told people that Libby is the person in the world 
whose mind works most like mine. Anna dubbed Libby my 'mini-me'.  
More recently, Libby herself, like her son William, has been formally 
diagnosed as being on the autism spectrum. I have not wasted any time 
wondering where she got it from. 
In retrospect, I spent a lot more time in the Clinic than was 
healthy thinking about how my daughters' rejection had impacted me. In 
my heavily depressed state, my defences were down. I experienced 
emotions far more strongly than I did when I was not depressed. I almost 
became normal. 
Being depressed also caused me to take more seriously than I 
should have other possible causes of my depression. The psychologists 
were very big on using mindfulness and cognitive behavioural therapy to 
identify and treat negative patterns of thinking. Not surprisingly, when I 
used these approaches, I quickly found that my thinking was riddled 
with self-destructive, negative thoughts. 

 
Further Work on Myself 
 
 
279 
 
I found that I was catastrophizing about nearly everything, 
including thinking that I would not survive this bout of depression. I had 
long known that I was a perfectionist and a control freak. More recently, 
I had realized that these are common symptoms of being on the autism 
spectrum. But now, with the input from the psychologists, I was 
becoming convinced that these traits might be a significant factor in the 
cause of my depression. 
The psychologists and the social workers were very adamant 
about the essentiality for human flourishing of good friendships and 
membership in a supportive community. I had been a loner all my life, 
and this was amplified during the Covid pandemic. The social worker, in 
particular, was very concerned that when I left the Clinic, I would be 
returning to my single-bedroom apartment in Melbourne's Central 
Business District, where I lived alone. Was my depression a sign that my 
social isolation was finally catching up with me? 
For the first six months or so after leaving the Clinic, I continued 
to be prescribed heavy doses of anti-depressants as well as addictive Z 
drugs for sleep. During this time, I tended to believe that the problems 
with my daughters combined with these psychological traits were the 
primary cause of my depression. I thought that I had to work my way 
through resolving these difficulties if I were to end my depression. 
However, once I got off the drugs and began to feel like my old 
self again, these beliefs fell away. 
I discovered that these apparent problems were largely 
symptoms, not causes, of my depression. In particular, I found that I was 
no longer preoccupied with my daughters to any extent. As I had before 
the depression, I could fully and openly accept that my girls were very 
different from me, and that it was unreasonable to expect that we would 
always be one big, happy family. 
I could also now see that the catastrophizing, perfectionism, and 
negative thinking that plagued me while I was depressed, was not such a 
problem for me before I became depressed or after it lifted. I think a lot, 
and always have thought a lot, including about things that could go 
wrong. But for me, this was mostly easy and a joy. It rarely produced 
persistent negative feelings or sadness. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
280 
 
As long as I can remember, people have said to me that my life 
must be extremely hard work, given that I tend to think and plan and 
theorize about everything. I am sure that if they had to live their life the 
way I do, they would indeed find it exhausting and ultimately 
unbearable. But for me, being a perfectionist and control freak is largely 
effortless and enjoyable. And every day, I thank God that I can live 
alone in peace and quiet in my one-bedroom apartment in the center of 
Melbourne. 
After a lot more research and experimentation, I have concluded 
that my mental health issues, including my bout of anxiety 6 years 
before, stem at least initially from a metabolic problem. It seems likely 
that once this metabolic issue causes mental deterioration, the decline is 
then amplified by my autistic tendencies. Foremost among these is my 
need to control my environment and the anxiety and negative thinking 
that arise when I fail to do so. It seems likely that such a loss of control 
propels me further down the path of depression and anxiety. 
When I began to explore the possibility that my mental issues 
have a metabolic origin, I soon realized that this problem had been 
evident since I was very young. It is likely associated with the 
'Alzheimer's gene' that I have recently discovered I carry. Broadly, my 
life-long symptoms are consistent with a deficiency in the provision of 
glucose to my brain, probably stemming from insulin resistance in the 
brain. 
This would explain, among other things, why I have typically felt 
extremely tired each morning. A couple of hours after breakfast, I feel 
an almost irresistible urge to go back to sleep. As a first-year student at 
the University of Queensland, after the 9 a.m. lecture finished, I would 
often walk to the main library, find an empty cubicle, and go to sleep for 
an hour or so. 
Fortunately, there is a cure for such a condition. During Covid, I 
had gone on the ketogenic diet for a year and had felt the best mentally 
that I had ever experienced. Unfortunately, I had to go off it because of 
the effects that it had on my blood lipid levels (I found later that this was 
probably due to my Alzheimer's gene. It could be overcome by 

 
Further Work on Myself 
 
 
281 
 
minimizing my intake of saturated fats and consuming healthier fats 
instead). 
Arguably, the keto diet had these positive effects on me because 
it can overcome imperfections in glucose regulation in the brain—it 
replaces glucose with ketones as the brain's main fuel source. 
I have now returned to a modified ketogenic diet that focuses on 
healthier fats. I am feeling as good as I did during my first experience 
with the diet. And I am now medication-free. 
I have also worked further on using meditation-like practices to 
deal with depression. If successful, these techniques will help to prevent 
a recurrence of depression in the event that metabolic issues again 
generate initial mental decline. They will also be very useful if I am 
wrong about the metabolic issue, and if depression arises again 
'spontaneously', without a readily apparent cause. 
Of course, several alternative possible explanations of my 
anxiety and depression seem plausible and cannot be ruled out based on 
any evidence. One that I keep in mind suggests that depression and 
anxiety serve a developmental and evolutionary function. They are 
irruptions from the unconscious mind that strongly incentivize us to get 
our development moving again if we become stuck and unable to cope 
with our challenges. My mental illnesses have certainly motivated me to 
work further on my development. 
For my exploration of meditation-like practices, the techniques I 
developed for anxiety were a good starting point. As I mentioned earlier, 
I learned how to use a particular form of practice to deal with anxiety. In 
short, this involved accepting anxious feelings as mere sensations arising 
in the body, and not as signs of danger or of anything to be anxious 
about. Whenever the sensations trigger anxious thinking, the practice 
requires dis-embedding from the thoughts and letting them go by, 
without treating them seriously or identifying with them. This practice 
de-links the sensations in the body from the mental processes that would 
otherwise treat the sensations as an alarm that is warning of imminent 
threats. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
282 
 
This general approach was relatively easy to apply to anxiety—it 
is not difficult to dis-embed from and accept the bodily sensations as 
well as any negative thinking that they may trigger from time to time.  
I began my attempts to also use this approach for depression 
soon after I started to get depressed. But as hard as I tried, I could not 
separate out in my perception the negative thinking that manifested as 
depression on the one hand, and the internal feelings that drove this 
thinking on the other. Because I was unable to distinguish and observe 
these internal feelings, I was unable to practice dis-embedding from 
them and accepting them as inert sensations. 
I began searching the psychological literature and anecdotal 
reports in an attempt to identify anyone who had used such a strategy to 
deal with depression. I did not find anything of use. However, this 
search was hampered by the fact that I was not able to begin it before I 
became heavily depressed. 
As was the case with anxiety, the depression started without 
warning, and before I knew it, I was seriously impaired. As with anxiety, 
I was not in a condition to undertake serious research and 
experimentation while I was heavily depressed, and I had no option but 
to endure the depression, and to rely on the mental health system and its 
voodoo treatments. 
However, as I came out of the depression, I was able to play with 
practices that were somewhat analogous to the techniques that worked 
with anxiety. 
The starting point was to come deeply into the present and accept 
whatever was arising in myself and my environment. Then, with a still 
mind, I would focus attention and awareness on the thoughts and 
feelings that were associated with depression. My goal was to accept 
radically whatever arose, and to remain as a non-attached witness to my 
internal processes, without getting caught up in any depressive thoughts 
or feelings. 
What I tried to focus on observing were negative feelings that 
arose in my mind and then propelled depressive thinking, which in turn 
amplified the negative feelings, and so on, in a vicious cycle. 

 
Further Work on Myself 
 
 
283 
 
However, I found that the usefulness of the analogy with anxiety 
broke down at this point—the feelings that drive depression are not in 
the body, as they are with anxiety. They are not constrictions in the 
chest, or pains in the arm, or butterflies in the stomach. Instead, in my 
experience, they are unpleasant feelings that are perceived as being in 
the mind and that arise as part of the mental processes themselves. 
The final step was to radically accept these negative feelings and 
to embrace them as just sensations arising within the mind. As it did for 
anxiety, this necessitated closely examining the sensations, locating 
precisely where they were in the mind, how they changed over time, and 
so on. Doing this would contribute to the desired outcome of 
experiencing the feelings as mere sensations—not as alarms that are 
legitimately signalling the existence of serious problems that warrant 
intense, depressive, negative thinking. 
Ultimately, the goal was to be able to use this approach in real-
time in the midst of ordinary life. The practice would involve noticing 
any depressive feelings that arose in my brain, acknowledging them, 
confirming that they were not indicative of actual problems, radically 
accepting them as inert sensations, and moving on. 
Unfortunately, by the time that I developed this practice 
sufficiently, my depression had subsided. For months while I tapered off 
medication, I still felt mentally and physically uncomfortable, but I was 
no longer depressed. 
I had got to the stage in my development of this practice where I 
could identify negative feelings as they arose in my mind and experience 
them as separate to my depressive thoughts. However, because my 
depression had largely subsided, I did not have the opportunity to test 
this approach fully. 
What I had achieved seemed like significant progress, but I will 
not be able to confirm this until I have the opportunity to test it in the 
face of re-emerging depression. I do not want to experience again the 
'hell on Earth' that characterised much of 2023 for me. But if my 
metabolic interventions fail me at any point, a bonus will be the 
opportunity to test and refine this practice. 
 
 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
284 
 
 
 

 
285 
 
21. 
 
 
 
The Gifts of Autism 
 
Another unexpected benefit of my time in the mental health facility was 
that I met other inmates who have autistic tendencies. We ended up 
forming a small group who tended to understand each other better than 
did the psychologists and other staff. 
Our little band of mostly sisters tended to be brought closer 
together whenever a psychologist told a group session that humans were 
social organisms who needed to feel part of a supportive community to 
be truly happy. I would often remind the psychologist that this was not 
universally the case: for those who are introverted and have altruistic 
tendencies, hell can be other people. 
Six years earlier when my little mate and grandson William had 
been diagnosed as being on the autism spectrum, I had researched in 
considerable depth the characteristics of autism. For many years 
previously, I had noticed that I had some autistic tendencies. Gradually, 
I had come to realize that I was not 'normal'. For example, as I 
mentioned earlier, I was nicknamed 'the odd fellow' by my boss when I 
was a teenager in the public service in Canberra. But I had not thought 
about it much. Throughout my life, I have generally been happy, 
including in terms of who I am. I considered myself very fortunate that I 
did not care much about what others thought of me or whether I had any 
friends. 
However, deepening my understanding of autism when William 
was diagnosed proved to be extremely useful for me. It enabled me to 
connect a lot of dots about myself as well as others. I could now see that 
many of my personality attributes and behavioural tendencies were 
manifestations of autistic tendencies. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
286 
 
A specific discovery that my research uncovered about autism 
explained a lot about why I had developed my unusual cognitive 
capacities. Research revealed that many autistic individuals are driven 
by their condition to excel at building declarative models of phenomena 
that are of interest to them. These are the models developed by science. 
Many great scientists show unmistakable autistic tendencies. 
A 'normal' individual comes into the world with a 
comprehensive set of innate mechanisms that quickly enable them to 
develop intuitive, procedural knowledge about how to interact with their 
mother, family, and other individuals. Typically, they do not have to 
think through in detail how to behave appropriately in many social 
situations. They do not have to consult mental models of their social 
interactions in order to identify how to act socially. 
In contrast, many autistic individuals never develop this intuitive, 
procedural knowledge to any degree. Often, they find that engaging in 
small talk, shaking hands, hugging, and other social rituals seem absurd 
and meaningless. When they encounter complex social circumstances, 
they do not know intuitively what to do to fit in. They have to think 
through how they should behave, using declarative mental models. 
Many on the spectrum over-think because they under-feel. 
This is one of the great gifts of autism. Autistic children are 
driven from a young age to develop declarative theories and explicit 
mental models about social challenges that they encounter. Their 
inability to deal spontaneously with social circumstances provides them 
with a powerful and ongoing incentive to enhance their abilities to 
construct and use mental models. This tends to predispose them to 
embark on careers in which a capacity for declarative mental modelling 
is essential. Whenever I walk into a workplace of computer 
programmers, data analysts, or engineers, I see signs of autism 
everywhere. 
The powerful incentives provided by autism for building explicit 
mental models has played a significant role in the evolution of humanity 
in the last two hundred thousand years. In particular, the shift from 
procedural to declarative knowledge amongst humans was driven in part 
by this incentivizing. 

 
The Gifts of Autism  
 
287 
 
Before this transition, human behaviour was almost entirely 
orchestrated by procedural knowledge embodied in a wide range of 
skills. Some of these skills were innate, and others were learned 
primarily through trial-and-error associative and operant learning. 
The capacity to use thinking and model building consciously to 
solve problems was poorly developed. The emergence of a capacity for 
conscious mental modelling constituted a major enhancement in 
evolvability. Procedural knowledge is generally limited to the learning 
of specific skills that are adapted to particular circumstances and 
contexts. But the use of mental modelling enables learning to be 
generalised to other circumstances. In large part this generalizability is 
enabled by a conscious ability to vary the parameters of a mental model 
and to simulate the outcomes of the changes.  
Over the most recent two hundred thousand years, the ability of 
humans to replace procedural knowledge with declarative models has 
expanded progressively. This has given rise to the emergence of 
language—it enabled the contents of declarative modelling to be 
transmitted easily between individuals. This expansion of declarative 
modelling also eventually led to the development of a capacity to 
include abstractions in mental models, further enhancing their power and 
generalizability. As we have noted, this emergence of analytical/rational 
thinking powered the rise of science and technology, beginning with the 
First Enlightenment. 
Individuals with autistic tendencies have been at the forefront of 
these cognitive advances. Their stunted abilities to cope intuitively with 
social situations and challenges provided them with strong incentives to 
develop alternative means for doing so. 
Often, autistic children suffer from anxiety whenever their 
attempts to fit in socially fail. But this means that they will experience 
powerful psychological rewards whenever they learn how to avoid this 
anxiety in particular situations—for example, when they discover other 
methods for dealing with social and other challenges. Often, they learn 
that they can ward off anxiety by becoming absorbed in repetitive 
movements, perfectionism, obsessive focusing on details, and other 
means of controlling their inner and outer environments. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
288 
 
In 'normal' society, these kinds of strategies for overcoming 
anxiety can manifest as maladaptive traits. However, another strategy is 
possible for individuals with the potential to develop advanced model-
building capacities. They can use their model-building abilities to 
identify how to fit in socially, at least to some extent. The potential of 
the challenges that autistic individuals face to reward conscious model-
building in this way has played a critically important role in the recent 
evolution of human cognition. 
My research and self-observation led to a further discovery about 
autism that was also very significant for understanding my own 
cognitive development. I was surprised to find that the potential of 
autistic tendencies to drive cognitive development was not limited only 
to 'left-brain', hyper-rational capacities. 
Before this realization, I had unthinkingly adopted the common 
misconception that individuals with high-functioning autism tend to 
excel mainly in pursuits that are heavily intellectualised. I believed that 
high-functioning autism was great for science, engineering, and IT. But 
it was not so good for literary, artistic, and other highly-creative 
pursuits. 
But then I discovered that some very prominent literary giants 
were on the spectrum. In the past, they were often labelled as having 
Asperger's Syndrome or high-functioning autism. Perhaps foremost 
among those who were unquestionably on the spectrum was James 
Joyce, who many would rank as the greatest literary figure of the 20th 
century. 
As I investigated the issue more deeply, I realized that the forces 
that tended to incentivize an autistic individual to develop high-level 
analytical/rational thinking would not cease to operate once the 
individual reached that level. Instead, the incentives would continue to 
propel further development beyond the analytical/rational level.  
In order for individuals to be able to control their environment 
effectively, they needed metasystemic cognition. Analytical/rational 
cognition enables them to build effective models of only a small 
proportion of their environment. But as we have discussed, most of our 
environment is too complex to be modelled and understood by 

 
The Gifts of Autism  
 
289 
 
analytical/rational cognition. This is particularly the case for social 
phenomena. To control their entire environment, an autistic individual 
needs metasystemic cognition. 
These forces and patterns certainly seem to have been prominent 
in my life. I found that in order to achieve my goals, I had to go well 
beyond analytical/rational cognition. To do so required me to set out 
intentionally to integrate right-brain capacities with my left-brain 
analytical thinking. A cognitive synthesis at a higher level was required. 
I had to use meditation-like practices and other approaches to achieve 
this. The result was an ability to construct mental models of complex 
phenomena, enabling me to control and manipulate complex 
circumstances where this was possible. 
James Joyce's novels appear to evidence an ability to construct 
mental models of complex literary challenges. The final few pages of the 
story 'The Dead' in his book 'Dubliners' are a wonderful example of his 
ability to craft combinations of words and ideas that evoke an epiphany 
in many readers. 
It seems that Joyce set out intentionally to invent and shape the 
various literary devices that litter his works. His innovations did not just 
arise spontaneously and intuitively out of the depths of his unconscious 
mind. Instead, he consciously devised techniques for creating particular 
effects in the reader. He seems to have used this declarative 
understanding in combination with right-brain capacities to hone and 
tune the devices in order to maximize the impacts that he set out to 
achieve.  
This propensity of autistic individuals to develop mental models 
of greater complexity is likely to be very significant for the spread of 
metasystemic cognition across humanity, and for the associated 
emergence of the Second Enlightenment. In particular, individuals with 
autistic tendencies are likely to be at the forefront of developing 
strategies for scaffolding metasystemic cognition, including practices 
that enable the integration of the 'right brain' capacities that are also 
necessary for higher cognition. 
We will consider these scaffolding strategies and practices in 
detail in the book's final two chapters. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
290 
 
 
 

 
291 
 
22. 
 
 
 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
Despite being highly trained to focus on dispensing medications that 
frequently cause more harm than good, my psychiatrist did make a 
significant contribution to my well-being. After six or so weeks in the 
Clinic, I had not made any progress. Nonetheless, I told my psychiatrist 
that I wanted to go home. I felt that I was deteriorating physically as 
well as mentally in the Clinic. It seemed to me that I would be better off 
at home. 
This seemed to worry my psychiatrist considerably, and caused 
him to try a different approach. I think that he was concerned that I had 
enough and wanted to go home and kill myself. He did not actually say 
anything to me along these lines. But if this is what he was thinking, he 
did not have it completely wrong. 
During my experience with general anxiety disorder and now 
with depression, I had always thought that if things did not improve and 
did not look like they would ever improve, the sensible thing to do 
would be to opt-out permanently. There seemed little point in enduring 
the horror of serious depression or anxiety, if it was not going to end. I 
had always seen suicide as being on the table, but as the absolute last 
resort. 
My psychiatrist seemed to sense this. He began to talk to me 
about the need for human beings to believe in something much larger 
than themselves that would continue to exist long after they died. This 
could give them meaning and purpose in their life, he suggested. My 
immediate reaction to this was that the evolutionary worldview provided 
me with abundant meaning and purpose—probably more than was 
experienced by most others on the planet. It provided me with a role and 
a purpose in a much larger scheme of things that will outlive everyone I 
know. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
292 
 
His response was yes, but did I not accept that there is an 
ineradicable mystery at the heart of human existence that even the 
evolutionary worldview cannot explain? I responded that yes, I accept 
this, but for me, it is a very circumscribed mystery—once the big bang 
occurred, there was no mystery as to how the universe unfolded: known 
physical laws and material processes eventually gave rise to life; this life 
increased progressively in hierarchical complexity and evolvability; 
evolution eventually gave rise to a cognitive capacity that could 
comprehend the processes that produced this evolutionary trajectory; 
ultimately this enabled a shift to intentional evolution; and so on, and so 
on. 
But I had long recognised that none of this explains why there is 
a universe in the first place. I had accepted that this mystery was 
impenetrable. Evidence did not exist that enabled science to peer beyond 
the veil and to develop scientific explanations of why there is something 
rather than nothing. 
I knew that it was possible to construct an infinite number of 
hypotheses that each could explain logically why the universe exists and 
that cannot be contradicted by any known facts. For example, all sorts of 
gods with all sorts of powers could be hypothesised, as could multitudes 
of possible material causes. However, there is no evidence that could be 
used to falsify any of these hypotheses or to narrow them down to a 
single hypothesis. 
Furthermore, if some means were found to enable science to 
develop an understanding of what generated the Big Bang, this would 
push back the horizon of our knowledge somewhat, but there would still 
be a horizon beyond which we could not know anything with certainty. 
Consequently, I agreed with my psychiatrist that there was an 
ineradicable mystery at the heart of human existence and, in fact, at the 
heart of any existence at all. However, at first, I did not see that this had 
any significant implications. 
But as his questions wormed their way into my mind, they 
connected with other realizations and intuitions. In particular, they 
resonated with the messages I received from the voices I heard during 
my mushroom experience: there are larger-scale processes at much 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
293 
 
higher levels than ours, and I do not know much about what is really 
going on here. 
Previously, I had rejected spending much time thinking about 
what might have produced our universe in the first place. I believed that 
doing so was a dead end. It was impossible to make any progress in 
sorting through the endless possibilities. 
However, I began to realize that I had been using ineffective 
methods to address these issues. I had been proceeding as if my primary 
goal was to develop an objective and scientific explanation of the causes 
of the universe. But now I began to understand that I should have seen 
this approach as just one of several possible means for discovering what 
I really wanted to know, not just an end in itself. 
In fact, my central interest was whether the nature of these causal 
processes might have implications for us, here and now. My main goal 
was to discover whether an understanding of the processes could answer 
questions like: Was our universe established for a particular purpose? 
What role, if any, do we have in fulfilling this purpose? Will it make any 
difference to us whether we consciously set out to do what we can to 
assist the achievement of this purpose? 
Of course, if a scientific approach could explain in detail what 
caused our universe to emerge, it would greatly facilitate the answering 
of these and other questions about the sense and significance of our 
existence. Once science understands these causes sufficiently, its 
discoveries can be used to work out whether there are any implications 
for the way we live our lives. 
However, we can probably never know with scientific certainty 
the precise nature of the processes that produced our universe. We are 
unlikely ever to be certain about whether these unknown processes have 
major implications for our lives. 
In the absence of a scientific explanation, the possibilities are 
endless. Depending on the nature of the possibilities, what we do during 
our lives might make no difference. For example, there may be no 
particular way in which we can act that will pay off for us in the longer 
term, e.g. by enabling us to survive after death. But neither can we rule 
out possibilities that would provide such payoffs. We can imagine 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
294 
 
numerous plausible possibilities that have the potential to provide 
meaning and purpose for at least some forms of human existence.  
Nonetheless, in the face of this uncertainty, are there rational 
methods we can use to decide how we should live our lives now to 
maximize our longer-term interests? Increasingly, I realized that this was 
the most relevant question to ask about the fundamental nature of our 
reality. 
Even if there is radical uncertainty about why there is something 
rather than nothing, is it still possible to make rational decisions about 
how we should act now? Is there a method for making choices that does 
not rely on certain knowledge, but that, for example, maximizes our 
chances of surviving in the long term, including after our bodies die? 
Of course, humans make decisions regularly in the face of 
uncertainty. Techniques have been developed and tested that enable 
them to do so rationally and effectively, even in the face of radical 
uncertainty. Radical uncertainty exists when it is impossible to predict 
accurately the future consequences of possible actions, or even to assign 
probabilities to the possible outcomes. Humans face radical uncertainty 
about the reasons for the existence of our universe and their implications 
for our lives. 
These decision-making methods can be particularly effective 
when at least some of the possible outcomes of decisions can produce 
significant benefits for the decision-maker. As we shall see, this is the 
case even though there may be many more possible outcomes that do not 
impact on the decision-maker at all. 
An infinite number of possibilities exist that are consistent with 
all available evidence that could explain the existence of our universe. 
Some of these possibilities have the potential to make considerable sense 
of our universe in general and of human existence in particular. 
Significantly, these meaningful possibilities cannot be ruled out. They 
are actual possibilities that seem plausible and that are not falsified by 
any known evidence. 
I began to realize that it is possible, for example, that the larger-
scale processes that are responsible for the existence of our universe may 
have set it up for the purpose of generating higher intelligences. The 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
295 
 
path that our universe provides for the development of these capacities 
might include accepting suffering and learning as much as possible from 
enduring it. If this were the case, and it cannot be ruled out, the option of 
turning off life support might not be as rationally attractive as I thought 
previously. It may involve closing the door to further possibilities that 
are valued and even rewarded by the processes that established this 
universe. 
This perspective might be seen to differ from my original 
evolutionary worldview in only minor ways. However, it made a huge 
difference to how I would come to view my life and whether I should 
persevere with it even in the face of great on-going suffering. 
I will now set out to identify in detail the rational decision-
making methods that are capable of identifying optimal strategies 
despite radical uncertainty. I will then apply them to these fundamental 
existential issues. 
But such strategies are only valid if there are plausible 
possibilities that cannot be ruled out and that have longer-term 
implications for what humans do here and now in the world. I will begin 
by demonstrating the existence of a number of such significant 
possibilities. 
Among possible explanations for why our universe exists are 
those that suggest it was brought into existence by a being(s) that exist 
outside our universe and have the capacity to create universes. Their 
methods of creation might include producing simulations. 
Why would such a powerful being(s) create our universe? It is 
possible to divide the possibilities into several relevant, overlapping 
categories. First, there are an infinite number of possible explanations 
that make no sense in the context of human intentions and goals. 
Furthermore, an infinite number of possibilities exist that have no 
implications for how we live our lives. No matter what we do in such a 
universe, our actions would have no consequences for us beyond our 
temporary existence. There are also an infinite number and variety of 
'God hypotheses'. 
However, there is a class of somewhat plausible possibilities in 
which the being(s) who brought our universe into existence have done so 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
296 
 
for their own particular purposes. When they established our universe, 
they set it up in such a way that it performs particular functions that 
serve their goals. But of course, it might not have been set up at all to 
serve human goals. No matter how we live our lives in such a universe, 
it might make no difference to whether we can, for example, survive 
death. 
For example, our universe might be a simulation established by 
an advanced civilization that exists outside our universe. In this 
hypothetical example, they have established the simulation for the 
purpose of evaluating the consequences of alternative ways of 
organising their societies. It may be that because of computational 
irreducibility, even such advanced intelligences cannot work out the 
consequences for their own civilization of these alternative strategies. 
Consequently, they need to simulate various possibilities if they are to 
identify the best strategy. 
This advanced civilization may be completely unconcerned that 
their simulated universes will produce extensive misery and suffering for 
the conscious beings that will emerge in the simulations. 
But there is a class of possibilities that is more relevant and 
interesting, at least to humans. In these cases, the way we live our lives 
does have consequences for the possibility of some kind of existence 
that extends beyond our bodily deaths. 
I will briefly outline three classes of this kind of possibility that 
cannot be ruled out. 
The first class of possibilities is the creation by an advanced 
civilization of simulations that are designed specifically to provide 
intelligences with environments and experiences that enhance their 
psychological growth and development. 
The plausibility of these possibilities is illustrated by the fact that 
humanity is already beginning to head in this general direction. 
Human therapeutic psychology has often used visualization, 
imagination, and environmental manipulation to heal individuals from 
trauma and to build greater psychological resilience and functioning. In 
recent years, simulations and virtual realities have also begun to be used 
to deliver these kinds of therapies, albeit in a limited way. A very simple 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
297 
 
example is the use of virtual environments to extinguish phobias 
associated with airplane travel. The virtual environment gradually 
introduces the individual to the experience of being a passenger on a 
plane. It exposes them progressively to the negative feelings triggered by 
their phobia, but in an environment that keeps them calm and relaxed. 
Once they get used to a particular level of exposure, it is increased 
further, eventually extinguishing the phobia. 
However, the appropriate use of complex and realistic virtual 
environments is likely to take this to an entirely new level. In principle, 
individuals could be temporarily embedded in whatever social and other 
environmental circumstances will produce the desired psychological 
outcomes. 
An appropriate set of experiences could significantly change an 
individual's conditioning. Or it could operate at a meta-level, propelling 
the development of a capacity to be self-evolving. This would almost 
certainly have to include experiences that are traumatic for the 
individual, thereby motivating them to leave the comfort of their existing 
level of psychological development and to do the hard work on 
themselves that is needed to move them vertically to the next level. 
Of course, in order to have maximum effect when an individual 
is embedded in such a virtual reality, it may be desirable to induce the 
individual into a state in which they believe that their virtual experiences 
are real. When this is achieved, the participating individual would 
experience the virtual therapeutic experience as being indistinguishable 
from real life. 
This kind of technology might become very significant if humans 
achieve a state of abundance. Many dream that eventually, human 
technological capabilities, perhaps aided by AI, will be able to 
effortlessly meet all human needs and wants. If such a society were ever 
achieved, children might need to spend considerable time in a virtual 
reality that provides them with the shocks, traumas, and other complex 
challenges that are essential for successful human psychological 
development. 
Our universe could be such a simulation created by an advanced 
civilization. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
298 
 
The second class of possibilities that I will consider is the 
creation by an advanced civilization of simulations that are designed to 
develop higher intelligences in a way that is safe for the civilization. 
Again, human AI developers are already beginning to consider 
the desirability of such an approach. This is because AI might emerge 
eventually that has the power, motivation, and intelligence to harm its 
creators. Some believe that it may even destroy human civilization. 
A solution might be to confine the training and development of 
AI to simulated environments that provide no opportunity for the AI to 
interact with the creators or their universe. These simulated 'sandbox' 
universes would be specifically structured so that they facilitate the 
development of AI of higher intelligence. Once particular intelligences 
reach the desired level, they could be harvested by the advanced 
civilization and used for their purposes. 
However, harvesting would proceed only once the AI was 
assessed as being safe from the perspective of the advanced civilization. 
Additional security could be provided by embedding the simulation in a 
nested hierarchy of simulated environments. Escape from lower-level 
simulations would not threaten the civilization. 
From the perspective of an advanced civilization, we might be AI 
that is evolving and developing in a sandbox universe that it has 
simulated. 
The third class of possibilities arises because it may be 
impossible to produce highly intelligent AI by a combination of 
engineering and training. The only viable way to produce such AI might 
be to set up a simulation of an entire evolutionary process. This process 
would begin with the emergence of a universe. Eventually, life would 
emerge within the simulation and evolve in the direction of increasing 
complexity and evolvability. If it were set up appropriately, such a 
simulation would eventually produce high-level intelligences. 
This class of possibilities cannot yet be ruled out. This is despite 
the fact that many AI researchers believe strongly that it is possible to 
engineer and train Artificial General Intelligences (AGI). However, none 
have done so, or have come even close. Human attempts to produce AGI 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
299 
 
or even to understand how it might function have not yet gone beyond 
wishful thinking. 
At present, we know of only one particular strategy that can 
reliably produce human-level intelligence in an entity that begins far 
below this level. The strategy's starting point is a newborn baby. 
Typically, the baby cannot speak, think abstractly, coordinate its bodily 
movements, or undertake the other myriad functions that characterise 
human-level capacities. 
Thirty years later, and with a bit of luck, the typical baby will 
have grown into an adult with human-level intelligence. In the early 
years, the physical maturation of the brain and other bodily systems will 
have contributed to this development. But mostly, the intelligence of the 
growing human will develop due to learning and associated processes 
that help to install the relevant capabilities. 
What kinds of experiences, interactions, and training does a 
growing human need if its intelligence is to develop appropriately? 
Could an AI that begins with baby-level intelligence be subjected to 
similar experiences, interactions, and training, thereby achieving 
comparable improvements in intelligence? Furthermore, are there 
alternative approaches that could be taken with AI that could short-
circuit our current methods of producing human-level intelligence? For 
example, to what extent could AI be programmed directly with 
capacities that humans have to learn? 
The current state of human knowledge about how to develop 
human-level intelligence in humans is very limited. It happens right in 
front of us, but we actually know very little about how to do it in 
humans, let alone in AI. As I have outlined, even I made one or two 
mistakes while raising my daughters. 
However, it is possible to get a general idea of what is necessary 
to produce human-level intelligence in humans. This can be achieved by 
identifying in broad terms the kinds of learning experiences that children 
are subjected to as they develop. We can get a sense of the learning 
experiences that are most important by noting those that are essential for 
the successful development of the child. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
300 
 
It is well known that the foundations of our cognitive and social-
emotional development are established in the first year or so of life 
through long sequences of interactions with our mothers or other 
primary caregivers. This then broadens into the complex processes of 
socialization that generally involve other family members and then 
wider communities. Again, this comprises innumerable interactions and 
learning experiences. We have little idea about which particular 
interactions are critical for our successful development. But we know, in 
general, that these kinds of complex interactions and learning 
experiences are essential if we are to continue to grow and develop 
successfully. 
In a modern complex society, this is followed by immersion in 
pre-school and kindergarten, and then 12 long years of schooling. 
Without something like this, we will not develop the cognitive and 
social/emotional knowledge and capacities to get well-paid work in a 
modern economic system. 
But formal education is not the only critical factor during these 
years. Play and other complex interactions with peers that occur before 
and during school are also significant in developing all kinds of 
social/emotional and cognitive skills. 
After schooling comes university or work and entanglement in a 
wider community. Again, myriads of interactions and learning 
experiences occur. It is not possible to identify the specific sequences 
and networks of experiences that eventually prove essential for enabling 
a particular career. 
Whatever career we eventually find ourselves suited to, it may 
enable us to make a significant contribution to the complex society in 
which we live and work. However, all the intervening steps that took us 
there could not have been planned in advance. Many skills and 
capacities that prove significant in our lives are acquired due to chance 
meetings with individuals who grew up in completely different 
environments or even in different countries and cultures. 
Failures, traumas, abusive relationships (including within the 
family), and mental illness may, in retrospect, have been critically 
important for driving our acquisition of skills and knowledge that 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
301 
 
eventually prove essential for our development. Would we develop fully 
as intelligent human beings without encountering challenges that cause 
us to, for example, engage in self-reflection; experience failed 
friendships; fall in and out of love; learn from bitter experiences that our 
behaviour when younger was inappropriate; realize many years after this 
that the revised behaviours we adopted were also inappropriate; move 
through Piaget's levels of cognitive development; learn how to meditate 
to accelerate this developmental process; realize that an unexamined life 
is not worth living; develop psychological defences and then modify 
them and eventually drop them; and so on, and so on? 
How could we possibly provide AI with these experiences that 
appear essential for developing intelligence capable of achieving 
complex goals in our world? We would not know where to start. 
At present, humans have little knowledge about which kinds of 
experiences might be essential to develop our cognitive and social-
emotional capacities. As this book outlines in relation to my life, the 
importance of these experiences might not be at all obvious as they 
occur. As Soren Kierkegaard said, "Life can only be 
understood backwards, but it must be lived forwards."  
In some tribal societies, it was said that it takes a village to raise 
a child. Now, it tends to take at least a modern nation-state. Increasingly, 
it is taking an international system of markets and economic activities. 
Eventually, it will take a living global entity. 
Is this what we must do to produce human-level AI and beyond? 
Like us, will AI have to grow and develop in a diverse and complex 
society if it is ever to acquire human-level intelligence? 
Do we have to begin with AI that is roughly at the same level as 
a human baby, and then embed it in an environment that will deliver it 
the myriads of learning experiences and interactions in the 'correct' 
sequences that eventually transform human babies into fully-functioning 
adults? 
If so, it seems impossible to do this by designing each of these 
experiences and then delivering them to the AI in a training 
environment. Attempts to do so would be likely to be continually beset 
by computational irreducibilities. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
302 
 
It should also be obvious that this cannot be achieved by 
providing the AI with all human declarative knowledge that is available 
on the Internet and elsewhere. This will go nowhere near providing the 
developing AI with the myriads of complex social and physical 
interactions that humans experience as they develop. 
Instead, it seems that the only way to proceed successfully would 
be to embed an agentic and goal-directed AI into a complex social 
environment that self-organises the necessary experiences, in interaction 
with the AI. 
Given our current knowledge and experience, the only feasible 
way of doing this would be to raise the AI 'baby' as if it were a human 
baby. At present, the only way we could have any hope of ensuring that 
a developing, agentic AI will have learning experiences similar to those 
that can transform a human baby into a functioning adult would be to 
immerse it in the only environment that can currently provide such 
opportunities—a human society. 
A similar approach was taken to test whether primates could 
attain human-level capacities if they were provided with appropriate 
learning opportunities. Primate babies were brought up in human 
families. However, they did not progress far. 
But even if such a strategy were feasible, before we can begin to 
implement it, we encounter an even bigger challenge. We may not even 
be able to get to the starting point that I have assumed in the discussion 
so far. We have little idea about how to design and engineer AI that is as 
capable as a newly born human baby and, more importantly, that has the 
potential of a human baby. 
This is a major obstacle. The only process that we know of that 
can produce anything like a human baby from scratch is the entire 
evolutionary process itself. 
The reasons why this challenge may never be overcome are 
similar to the reasons why it is unlikely that we can ever produce 
human-level AI directly by engineering and training: much of the 
knowledge embodied in a human baby is procedural; it has been 
discovered by billions of years of evolutionary trial-and-error; 
computational irreducibilities make it impossible to build models that 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
303 
 
would enable us to understand and manipulate the relevant processes; as 
a consequence, we have no idea how to emulate what the evolutionary 
process has achieved or even to identify which particular steps were 
critical in moving towards baby-level intelligence accompanied by the 
potential to develop human-level intelligence; and so on.  
However, if we start a universe with a Big Bang that is 
appropriately fine-tuned, it seems likely that it will eventually produce 
life, and the evolution of this life will have a trajectory. As we have 
discussed, the details will differ, but eventually, the trajectory seems 
likely to produce organisms that have human-level intelligence. 
If humanity develops the capacity to simulate the emergence and 
evolution of such a universe, it seems likely that eventually, we would 
be able to harvest intelligences at the human level and beyond that 
develop within the universe. 
I have only sketched the relevant arguments and considerations 
here. But it may be the case that the only way in which an advanced 
civilization could produce human-level AI and beyond is by simulating 
the formation and evolution of a universe. Such a simulation would have 
to be set up with initial conditions that ensure that the evolving universe 
is both life-friendly and intelligence-friendly and that produces an 
evolutionary trajectory that heads in the direction of generating life and 
intelligence of increasing complexity and evolvability. 
Of course, if humans decide to proceed down such a path, it 
would highlight the possibility that our universe and our lives are the 
product of such a simulation. The argument made by philosopher Nick 
Bostrom about the probability that we are actually living in such a 
simulation applies equally here.23 If producing such a simulation is 
something that civilizations are likely to do once they become 
sufficiently advanced, we are probably in such a simulation. The 
probability that any given civilization is the original one that gave rise to 
a long sequence of simulations is very small. It is much more likely that 
it is a simulated one. 
 
23 Bostrom (2003) - see References 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
304 
 
But this brings me back to the central issue that propelled my 
thinking about these issues. To what extent can the existence of these 
classes of possibilities help address the ineradicable mystery that exists 
at the heart of human existence? They are just possibilities, incapable of 
eradicating the mystery completely. No one can explain with certainty 
why something exists rather than nothing. Why have I gone down this 
path knowing that it is incapable of producing certainty about the big 
existential question that we all face? 
At best, as we have seen, these possibilities represent hypotheses 
that cannot be ruled out on the basis of current evidence. However, there 
are an infinite number of hypotheses that can explain current 
circumstances and are consistent with all known facts (these include an 
infinite number that rely on various gods and supernatural beings as well 
as materialistic theories). Furthermore, most of these possibilities fail to 
get beyond the infinite regress that arises when we ask the questions: 
Who or what created those being(s) that are hypothesised to have created 
our universe, and who or what created them, and so on, and so on, 
indefinitely? 
However, as I suggested earlier and will now demonstrate in 
more detail, possibilities that cannot be established or ruled out by 
current evidence can provide good reasons for a rational agent to act in 
particular ways. This is the case even when there is no evidential basis to 
establish any particular possibility, or even to assign probabilities to any 
possibilities. Radical uncertainty of this kind is a common challenge for 
humans and other agents, and it is not the end of the story. 
An example of such a challenge is when an agent is faced with 
many hypotheses that make predictions about future events. In this 
example, no evidence establishes any of these hypotheses or even 
enables probabilities to be assigned. However, consider a hypothesis that 
makes specific predictions about a particular future event. The 
predictions are such that if the agent uses the predictions to decide what 
actions it will take, and if the hypothesis proves to be accurate, the agent 
will reap considerable benefits. 
A specific example is the hypothesis that our universe is a 
simulation created by an advanced civilization that exists outside our 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
305 
 
universe. The hypothesis postulates that the civilization created the 
simulation in order to evolve and develop higher forms of intelligence, 
safely. The advanced civilization intends to harvest suitable higher 
intelligences from the simulation once they emerge. These intelligences 
will escape physical death within the simulated universe and be 
deployed to perform useful functions in the advanced civilization. 
Consider an individual agent within the simulation who believes that it 
would be in its interests to be harvested either as an individual or as part 
of a larger-scale collective intelligence. 
In this example, we will assume that all alternative hypotheses 
facing the agent are non-beneficial—they will not provide net benefits to 
the agent if they are acted upon and prove to be correct. In such a case, 
the agent will maximize its interests if it decides to act on the basis of 
the beneficial hypothesis and spends its life working on itself in order to 
enhance its intelligence. 
Obviously, if the beneficial hypothesis proves to be correct, the 
agent will be substantially advantaged, continuing to live beyond 
physical death. Alternatively, it may happen that one of the non-
beneficial hypotheses proves to be true. But even if this is the case, the 
agent will not end up worse off by having acted on the beneficial 
hypothesis that has proven to be incorrect, provided the costs of doing so 
are not significant. 
Under these circumstances, despite the agent being faced with 
radical uncertainty, there is a rational strategy for deciding its actions. 
This strategy will maximise the achievement of its goals. 
The agent does not know in advance which hypothesis is true. 
But nonetheless, it can decide rationally which hypothesis (or class of 
hypotheses) it should act upon, as if they were true. 
There are many variations on this theme. For example, an agent 
might face a mixture of plausible hypotheses that produce different 
combinations of benefits and harms. The field of decision theory studies 
these more complex cases. It sets out to identify what a rational agent 
should decide in various circumstances, given their particular goals, 
even in the face of radical uncertainty. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
306 
 
Different agents might pursue dissimilar goals. The decision-
making strategies that are optimal may vary for different goals. For 
example, decision theory evaluates what a rational agent should decide if 
its goal is to maximize its benefits, or to minimize harm to itself, or to 
balance risks and benefits in some defined way, or to minimize the 
maximum regret that it might experience, and so on.24 
The existence of decision theory and its rigorous insights enable 
us to go beyond the reach of current science. The application of its 
discoveries enables us to make rational decisions about how we should 
live our lives, even though we face radical existential uncertainty. 
What specific implications do these methods have for deciding 
how we should act now, given possible explanations for the existence of 
the universe? Fortunately, we do not have to deal with an infinitely huge 
number and diversity of classes of plausible hypotheses. This is because 
evidence is available that reduces the number of hypotheses that we need 
to consider. This evidence significantly decreases the number of 
hypotheses that can be considered to be plausible. 
In particular, it is evident that we live in a universe that is 
consistent with the hypothesis that it is fine-tuned in many ways to be 
life-friendly. Furthermore, the fine-tuning is not conducive only to the 
emergence of simple life. It also appears to give rise to an evolutionary 
process with a particular trajectory. As we have seen, this trajectory 
results increasingly in the integration of living processes and in 
enhancing their evolvability/intelligence. 
As the trajectory unfolds, cooperative organisations of greater 
and greater scale emerge, and as the scale of these increases, so too does 
their evolvability/intelligence. If this trajectory continues to unfold 
successfully on Earth, the intelligence of the emerging global entity will 
far surpass the intelligence of any individual human. Nonetheless, 
individuals will contribute to the intelligence of the global entity, just as 
our brain cells contribute to our intelligence. 
Many possible hypotheses about why our universe exists are not 
plausibly consistent with its apparent fine-tuning. We can exclude them 
 
24 e.g., see Bejleri et al (2022) - see References for full citation 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
307 
 
from further consideration. In general, this includes all 'right-hand path' 
spiritual and religious traditions that reject the enhancement of agency as 
a central goal of their practices and beliefs. 
Of the remaining hypotheses that retain their plausibility, there 
are some that would provide benefits to individuals if they act in 
particular ways during their lives. I have already briefly discussed 
examples: our universe might have been intentionally set up to produce 
higher levels of intelligence. It may be that simulating such a universe is 
the only way to grow higher intelligences safely. It is possible that 
intelligences that emerge within such a universe will be advantaged if 
they contribute to the further development of themselves and of other 
intelligences in their universe. 
For example, they may be part of intelligent processes that are 
subsequently harvested and used for functions outside the simulated 
universe, or they may perform permanent functions within the simulated 
universe. Alternatively, an advanced civilization might have set up a 
fine-tuned simulation in order to provide an optimal environment for the 
further development of individuals from within the civilization itself. 
But the evidence that suggests our universe might have been 
intentionally fine-tuned also leaves us with many other hypotheses. 
These include ones that would not provide any existential benefits to 
individuals who emerge within such a universe, no matter what they do 
or contribute. For example, the creators of the simulation might have 
produced it simply to test hypotheses of their own about how living 
processes evolve. When their experiments reach an end, they may just 
discard the simulation and anything that emerged within it. 
A further example is the 'multiverse' hypothesis. It explains fine-
tuning by assuming that those universes in which life emerges will 
necessarily exhibit characteristics that enable life to emerge and develop. 
From the perspective of intelligent life that emerges in such a universe, it 
will appear to be fine-tuned for life. 
Nevertheless, even when an agent cannot tell which of these 
kinds of universes it lives in, it can be rational for the agent to act 'As If' 
the predictions made by the most beneficial hypothesis are true, all other 
things being equal. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
308 
 
These broad considerations provide strong and rational reasons 
for the adoption of life-goals that are pro-evolutionary. This would 
involve doing what you can to advance the trajectory of evolution by 
developing your own intelligence/evolvability, as well as contributing to 
the development of the intelligence/evolvability of the larger-scale 
cooperatives in which you are embedded. On this planet at this time, a 
priority is to contribute to the emergence of a cooperative and highly-
evolvable global society. 
Of course, there are no absolute guarantees that embracing an 
evolutionary worldview will pay off for individuals in the longer term. 
But there are no downsides associated with doing so. If fact, there are 
many benefits: as you work on yourself to enhance your evolvability, 
you will no longer be harmed by negative emotions and feelings and will 
be able to experience satisfaction and joy in whatever you choose to do. 
You will also develop enhanced cognitive capacities that will enable you 
to generate effective strategies for achieving your goals, whatever they 
may be. 
In summary, if you wish to live your life in a way that maximizes 
your existential interests, you should spend your time contributing 
positively to the purposes for which our universe might well have been 
set up. If this proves to be futile, as it may, it seems that there are no 
plausible alternative strategies that are likely to produce a better 
outcome for you. 
However, I have only sketched a broad outline of the relevant 
considerations here. This is not the place to present a far more 
comprehensive model of the strategies that a rational agent should adopt 
in the face of radical uncertainty about why there is something rather 
than nothing. 
Furthermore, like science itself, the conclusions reached by this 
kind of approach are likely to change as assessments of plausibility 
evolve and as more evidence emerges. New evidence might open new 
plausible hypotheses. Other kinds of fresh evidence might rule out some 
of the hypotheses that are now considered to be plausible and consistent 
with current evidence. 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
309 
 
As far as I know, only one thinker has used this kind of approach 
previously in a serious attempt to address the big existential questions. 
French mathematician and philosopher Blaise Pascal used a similar line 
of reasoning to argue that a rational individual should act as if the 
Christian god actually exists, and follow the tenets of Christianity. If the 
individual does so, and if there actually is such a god, the individual will 
go to heaven and avoid hell. If the alternative proves true, the individual 
will lose little. 
However, Pascal's approach has several obvious flaws. Foremost 
among these is that the only beneficial hypothesis that he considered 
plausible was that the Christian God existed. He did not include in his 
analysis any of the other religious traditions that are at least as plausible 
as his version of Christianity (and are equally implausible in the context 
of modern knowledge). 
Broadly, this kind of thinking led me to decide that I will 
endeavour to endure and learn from any suffering that comes my way in 
this universe. As has been the case for many of the misfortunes in my 
life up until now, this suffering may provide important learning 
experiences and motivation for my future development. 
Furthermore, if I can develop my capacity to accept fully 
whatever circumstances arise, I will become more like the Buddhist 
monk on the steps of the United States embassy in Vietnam. If I get 
there, there will not be any downside: whatever suffering comes my 
way, I will not flinch or react negatively. The experience will be no 
different from any other set of bodily sensations. Furthermore, as I have 
found, once suffering has passed, it is as if it never happened. 
Of course, the idea that life in this universe might be a temporary 
experience that is intended to provide learning experiences is common 
across the great spiritual and religious traditions, as well as in New Age 
'thinking'. These sources variously suggest that we are reincarnated 
until we develop sufficiently; that we are 'spiritual beings having a 
human experience'; that we are 'the one's' way of experiencing a greater 
range of possibilities; and so on. But as with most beliefs within the 
spiritual and religious traditions, their explanations and justifications are 
often mutually contradictory. Their beliefs need to be shorn of their 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
310 
 
spiritual mumbo-jumbo, and understood instead using rational 
approaches. 
These realizations had a major impact on my attitudes to life and 
its challenges. Previously, I had fallen into the trap of concluding that if 
science was unable to understand why our reality exists, it was pointless 
to consider the issues any further. 
This led me to conclude that any thinking about possible 
explanations for existence was senseless and futile and could not 
possibly go anywhere. Science was our best method for working out 
how the world works, and if things were beyond the reach of science, 
they were beyond rational knowing. 
But this thinking prevented me from seeing the implications of 
another obvious possibility. Although we do not have the science-based 
tools to account for why our reality exists and probably never will have 
those tools, this does not bring our explorations to an end. It does not 
prove that there is no possible explanation for our existence that can 
make sense of our lives. It suggests only that if there is such an 
explanation, we are incapable of demonstrating its validity during our 
lives. But all this means is that we cannot rule out any particular 
possibility. For example, it does not enable us to rule out the possibility 
that when our bodies die, our intelligence and being may continue to 
exist in some other realm. Neither can we rule out the alternative. 
We simply do not know. 
We cannot know what death will bring us. But this means that 
we will have no reason to be surprised if one of the more 'hopeful' 
possibilities proves to be true. Consequently, the absence of certainty 
about these possibilities should not determine how we enter the dying 
process. It is consistent with all scientific knowledge and other facts to 
enter the dying process with unrestricted curiosity about what, if 
anything, comes next. As the voice told me when I took my heroic dose 
of mushrooms: "Very clever, John. But you don't know shit about what 
is really going on here." I now take this message to be true, but in a 
positive sense. What is really going on here might make additional sense 
of my existence. 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
311 
 
Furthermore, as I have outlined, there are ways in which we can 
live here and now that will pay off in particular kinds of universes—for 
example, in universes that provide us with continued existence if we 
work on developing ourselves and the larger living systems in which we 
are embedded. Broadly, this entails aligning our lives and actions with 
the trajectory of evolution. The evolutionary worldview identifies in 
detail what this requires. 
These considerations led me to a conclusion that was not very 
different from the position I had reached before my bout of depression. 
But the context in which I reached it has changed radically. I am now 
very much open to the possibility that what is going on here in our 
universe makes sense in some larger context that includes but transcends 
this universe. 
At the end of all my explorations, I arrived back where I had 
started, but understood its wider implications for the first time. 
As I have indicated, this has fundamentally changed my attitude 
to suffering and death. I still do not know with any certainty what is 
really going on here. But now I know that it is possible to make rational 
decisions about things beyond the reach of science and about which I 
have no certain knowledge. 
Ultimately, it may prove existentially futile to live my life as if 
the values that seem to be implicit in our universe also make sense in a 
larger scheme of things. But amongst the many possible hypotheses that 
could account for why there is something rather than nothing, the pay-
off if such a hypothesis turns out to be correct is potentially very 
significant. 
*    *    * 
However, I was unsettled by the conclusion that this new kind of 
rational thinking could deal effectively with issues that apparently fall 
outside the reach of science. 
Up until this point, my thinking had proceeded on the 
assumption that scientific investigation, broadly understood, is 
humanity's best method for discovering how we should act in the world 
to achieve our goals, whatever they may be. However, I had now 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
312 
 
developed a new, rational method for deciding how to act in 
circumstances that could not be understood using scientific methods. 
This new approach seemed to be a reliable and rational decision-making 
method. 
Was it possible to unite the two forms of thinking in a new 
synthesis? In such a synthesis, each of these forms of thinking would be 
seen as instances of a single, higher-level framework. The new 
framework would embody a unified approach that subsumed both of 
these forms of thinking. It would identify rational methods for making 
decisions that worked effectively in both domains—for science and for 
circumstances characterised by radical uncertainty. 
The potential for such a possibility seemed to me to be 
heightened by the fact that the methodology of science has never been 
properly established. Science has never demonstrated from first 
principles how its methods overcome the problem of induction and the 
associated problem of causation. Nor has philosophy. 
The great Scottish philosopher David Hume demonstrated the 
seriousness of these problems. Broadly, he pointed out that when a 
particular event A occurs, and when event B has always been found to 
follow event A, this does not prove that A causes B or even that the next 
time A occurs, B will occur again. In these circumstances, it does not 
even prove that B will occur with greater probability. 
What Hume argued is incontrovertible. No matter how many 
times event A is followed by event B, it does not rule out the possibility 
that the next time A occurs, B will not.  
Science survived this devastating attack on its foundations 
because of its apparent success at discovering laws of nature and 
harnessing them to satisfy human goals. There is abundant evidence that 
science has worked brilliantly in practice, despite Hume's arguments. 
Science's response to Hume has not been to disprove his 
arguments. Instead, it has been to just get on with science and continue 
producing extremely valuable discoveries. 
Scientific methods have been claimed to discover many 
regularities and laws. Generally, these regularities continue to manifest 
whenever their existence is tested by observations. But of course, this 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
313 
 
does not mean that the apparent past regularities will hold true in the 
next minute or hour. Furthermore, as Hume pointed out, the fact that 
scientific methods appear to have worked to some extent in the past, 
does not mean that they will continue to work in the future. 
Nor is it the case that the more times that an event B occurs 
immediately after A occurs, the more probable it is that B will be found 
to follow A in the future. Probabilities cannot be rationally assigned to 
future events on the basis of past experiences. Hume's argument applies 
equally to assigning probabilities as it does to predicting certainty. 
In any specific case, it is impossible to rule out the possibility 
that our universe might be arranged in such a way that in the next 
instant, all previous apparent laws of nature will cease to apply. Or the 
possibility that any one, or any combination of them, will cease to apply. 
The possibility cannot be ruled out that apparent laws may be 
replaced at any instant by any one of an infinite number of alternative 
laws that would produce entirely different outcomes. From this instant 
onwards, this may occur every second, or millisecond. There are endless 
possibilities. None of them are ruled out by the observation that up until 
now, the rules of nature that we believe to have discovered in the past, 
appear to have continued to apply. 
Furthermore, there is nothing that enables us to say with any 
validity that any new laws that emerge will continue to apply in the 
future. Nor can we demonstrate with any certainty that the longer a new 
law applies, the more probable it is that it will continue to apply. And so 
on, and so on. 
Karl Popper's ideas about the philosophy and methods of science 
are perhaps the most widely accepted within science. He agreed with 
Hume that observations that are consistent with the predictions of a 
scientific hypothesis can never demonstrate that the hypothesis is 
correct. 
However, Popper argued that observations that are inconsistent 
with the predictions of a hypothesis can falsify or disconfirm it. He 
argued that contrary to naïve inductionism, science progresses not 
through the verification and confirmation of hypotheses, but by the 
refutation of 'wrong' hypotheses. Logically, hypotheses can be 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
314 
 
disproven, but never proven. According to Popper, science progresses 
through the accumulation of hypotheses that have survived all attempts 
to falsify them, and through the rejection of falsified hypotheses. 
But did Popper's approach really overcome Hume's arguments? 
Did it actually put science on sound foundations? 
No, it did not. As Hume might point out, any number of failed 
attempts to falsify a hypothesis does not prove that in the next instant in 
time, new attempts to falsify it will also fail. The predictions of 
hypotheses that were falsified in the past may make predictions that 
prove correct at any instant in the future. This and an infinite number of 
other possibilities cannot be ruled out in each new instant, no matter 
what possibilities actually occurred previously. At every future instant, 
an infinite number of possible hypotheses come back into possibility, 
including those that have been falsified previously. 
Is it possible to find some other way in which science can be 
placed on sound foundations? The answer to this fundamental question 
depends on what we take to be meant by 'sound foundations'. If we are 
asking whether science can arrive at certain knowledge about the future, 
the answer is clearly no. Throughout history, science and philosophy 
have stubbornly sought a scientific methodology that can be proven to 
be capable of discovering truths that will apply in the future. But this 
pursuit has failed. Science and philosophy have been relentlessly 
exploring a blind alley. 
There can be no such proof. Hume's arguments demonstrate this. 
Science and philosophy have been asking the wrong questions. 
The way through these difficulties is broadly the same as I 
developed for dealing with the problem of existence. It is founded on the 
realization that an agent can act in ways that qualify as rational, even 
when confronted with radical uncertainty. Here, rational decisions are 
taken to be those that can be demonstrated to increase the likelihood that 
the agent will achieve its goals. Radical uncertainty is faced by an agent 
in relation to a particular decision when forecasting is impossible, and 
the agent is unable even to assign probabilities to the possible outcomes 
of its actions. 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
315 
 
As we have seen in relation to existential uncertainty, even when 
facing radical uncertainty, an agent can still arrive at a decision using a 
method that will maximize the achievement of its interests, provided 
particular conditions are met. 
The example of existential uncertainty that we explored 
considered circumstances in which a particular subset of possible 
outcomes existed amongst a much larger set of possibilities. For this 
subset, if the agent acts in a particular way, and if this possible outcome 
actually occurs, the agent will benefit. Provided that the downsides 
experienced by the agent are small when it acts in this way, and there are 
no other possible outcomes that would benefit the agent, it is in its 
rational interests to decide to act in this particular way. Such a decision 
will increase the likelihood that it will achieve its goals. 
In these circumstances, this kind of decision-making strategy will 
always produce the best possible outcomes for the agent, no matter what 
particular outcome actually arises. 
How can this kind of reasoning be applied to the foundations of 
science? As we shall see, it is applicable because science is faced with 
radical uncertainty. We will begin our analysis by considering an agent 
that fully accepts Hume's argument. As such, when the agent makes 
decisions about how it might act in order to advance its future interests, 
it knows that it faces radical uncertainty. It accepts that it is faced with 
an infinite number of possible outcomes in the next instant. It has no 
rational basis whatsoever to assign different possibilities to any of these 
possible outcomes. What outputs from science, if any, should the agent 
use in making its decisions? How should it act to achieve its goals 
optimally? 
In answering these key questions, it is useful to begin by 
considering the possible outcomes for an agent if it makes its decisions 
on the basis of hypotheses that conflict with those established by 
science. In other words, it makes its decisions using the predictions of 
any of the infinite number of hypotheses that are inconsistent with the 
laws and other regularities that have been established by science. 
The key point is this: Even if the predictions turn out to be 
correct, the agent may not benefit at all. This is because, if the universe 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
316 
 
suddenly begins to behave in a way that is inconsistent with the way it 
has in the past, life in the changed universe may no longer be possible. 
An agent who is extremely lucky to choose the correct one of an infinite 
number of possibilities may not survive the experience. 
As I have mentioned, there is a lot of evidence that the laws and 
initial conditions of our universe appear to be fine-tuned in ways that 
enable life to arise and persist. If the regularities that underpin these laws 
were suddenly to cease to exist, the universe may cease to be life-
friendly. Furthermore, evolution has taken advantage of these laws and 
regularities to build the processes that enable living processes to 
function effectively. Consequently, the continued functioning of our 
nervous, physiological, metabolic, cellular, and other processes depends 
on the continued existence of these regularities. If these past regularities 
were suddenly to cease to exist, so too would our lives. 
Our science is not sufficiently advanced to identify in detail 
which of these past laws, regularities, and other patterns are essential to 
our continued existence. But the complex interrelationships of the 
constituents of our bodies and those between our bodies and our 
environment suggest that even slight changes to past patterns may be 
fatal, instantaneously. 
Given these considerations, if a living agent bases its decisions 
on hypotheses that are inconsistent with past patterns, and if the 
predictions of these hypotheses suddenly emerge, the agent is unlikely to 
survive to appreciate any benefits from getting it right. 
There is only one decision-making strategy that an agent can 
adopt that will ensure that it will benefit at least in some cases, no matter 
what hypotheses prove to be accurate. This strategy is to base its 
decisions on the meta-hypothesis that regularities that appear to have 
prevailed in the past will generally continue. Of course, a community of 
rational agents will hedge its bets somewhat by including research 
programs that test the boundaries of this hypothesis through time. 
These considerations suggest that the rational reason why we 
should base our decisions broadly on the predictions of established 
science is not because they are more likely to be correct.  Rather, it is 
because even if hypotheses that conflict with past patterns prove to make 

 
The Meaning and Purpose of Life and Suffering 
 
 
317 
 
accurate predictions about the future, relying on these hypotheses will 
not get us anywhere. If they are correct, it is likely that we will not be 
around to enjoy any benefits that might flow from our accurate 
predictions. 
This is not the place to develop in detail all the consequences and 
nuances of this proposed approach to the philosophy and epistemology 
of science. Suffice it to say that the arguments I have sketched justify 
scientific methodologies that are broadly similar to those practiced by 
the scientific community. There are important differences in detail, but it 
is beyond the scope of this book to consider these in greater depth. 
Largely, science has been doing it right, but for entirely the 
wrong reasons. 
These insights point the way toward the development of a 
rational approach to making decisions that applies equally to the 
methodology of science as well as to fundamental existential issues. 
However, the specific approach I have taken to making decisions that 
rely on scientific methodologies cannot be applied to decisions about 
events that occur after the agent has died. The methods that are specific 
to science cannot be applied in circumstances where the testing of 
hypotheses is not possible. 
However, at a higher level of abstraction, the same kind of 
reasoning that was used in relation to science is equally applicable to 
decision-making about consequences that are not experienced until after 
the agent dies. Both cases deal with how an agent can make decisions 
rationally, even in the face of radical uncertainty about the future 
consequences of decisions. 
Any conclusions reached by this reasoning in either domain will 
have equal validity. Conclusions reached about how an agent should act 
now in the face of post-death possibilities are no more nor less justified 
than science-based conclusions about how to act in relation to pre-death 
events. At a higher level of generality, this approach unifies science with 
existential reasoning. In neither case does it generate certain knowledge 
about future events. However, in both cases, it identifies how an 
intelligent and rational being should reason in order to undertake 
decision-making in the face of radical uncertainty. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
318 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 3: How to Scaffold Metasystemic 
Cognition and Beyond 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
321 
 
23. 
 
 
 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic 
Cognition 
 
In the final two chapters of the book, I detail how an individual's 
capacity for metasystemic cognition can be scaffolded, including how to 
self-scaffold such an ability. 
These chapters draw together the various threads introduced in 
earlier chapters about how higher cognition can be developed. 
As I outlined in the Introduction, my strategy to this point in the 
book has been to embed information about cognitive development in a 
narrative about my own developmental odyssey. This strategy has 
multiple purposes. 
First and foremost, the strategy was designed to overcome a 
fundamental difficulty confronting attempts to convey to others what 
they can do to achieve metasystemic cognition. The difficulty is that the 
practices and methods needed to develop metasystemic cognition can 
only be understood fully by individuals who are already equipped with 
it. This is because the processes involved in acquiring and implementing 
metasystemic cognition are highly complex. They can only be 
understood by an individual who can build mental models of highly 
dynamic, complex systems. 
The Catch-22 is that in order to construct and operate these 
complex models, you need a capacity for metasystemic cognition. 
Understanding how metasystemic cognition can be developed requires 
building complex mental models of cognitive processes. But this 
obviously requires metasystemic cognition. 
When individuals at the analytical/rational level are provided 
with insights that were generated by metasystemic thinking, they will 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
322 
 
often fail to understand the basis of those insights. This is because the 
metasystemic insights will have been derived from an understanding of 
factors and processes that are not included in the mental models of 
analytical/rational thinkers. The insights will not make sense. To 
analytical/rational thinkers, the conclusions reached by a metasystemic 
thinker will not seem to be justified. Broadly, this is how behaviour 
generated at a higher level of cognition will look to intelligence at a 
lower level. 
This posed a fundamental challenge for this book: How can it 
overcome the Catch-22? How can it convey to readers an understanding 
of metasystemic cognition that is sufficient to enable them to scaffold it? 
In particular, how can it achieve this given that a full understanding 
requires metasystemic cognition, and very few readers will already have 
this capacity? 
This challenge is compounded by the fact that much of the 
knowledge needed to develop a capacity for metasystemic cognition 
cannot be conveyed by declarative propositions and explanations alone. 
In part, this is because much of it is procedural knowledge. It is in the 
form of skills and practices that cannot be described or conveyed in 
detail in words. 
Furthermore, there are no words available to describe many of 
the experiences and states that individuals need to recognise if they are 
to understand what is being conveyed. This limitation cannot be 
overcome easily. Creating a new word for a particular experience will 
not convey any meaning to individuals who have not had that 
experience. When the word is used, they will not understand from their 
own experience what it is referring to. 
The strategy I adopted to answer this challenge, at least in part, 
was to provide a structured narrative about how one particular individual 
(myself) developed from analytical/rational thinking to metasystemic 
cognition over the course of his life. This narrative provides 
analytical/rational thinkers with an outline of the key steps that they 
need to take to develop metasystemic cognition. 
Importantly, it provides this information in a graduated fashion. 
This enables new concepts and understandings to be introduced in as 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
323 
 
simple a form as possible, and then elaborated in greater depth and 
complexity as the narrative proceeds. The structured narrative will tend 
to mirror how individuals are likely to need to develop their 
understandings and concepts as they progress. 
Overall, the narrative is structured as a spiral in which a 
particular issue is developed to a degree before the narrative moves on to 
other issues. Later in the narrative, the issue is then revisited in greater 
depth, and so on. Such a structure avoids providing all the information 
relevant to a particular issue at once, in a fully-developed form. The 
analytical/rational thinker would be unable to grasp such complex 
material until they have made some progress towards metasystemic 
cognition. Furthermore, this approach encourages the reader to think 
ahead of the text, and to begin to develop their own mental models of 
how their thinking and feeling might need to develop. 
A further benefit of the narrative approach is that it enables some 
non-declarative forms of knowledge to be transmitted. To an extent, it 
evokes the capacity of the reader to identify with the protagonist and feel 
empathy for him. This enables the reader to feel their way into the 
experiences of the protagonist. Even when the reader finds the behaviour 
of the protagonist unattractive and uninspiring, this might prompt the 
reader to think and feel in depth about the relevant issues. 
The use of metaphor and analogy further enhances this process in 
which mirror neurons are engaged and embodied experience is evoked 
vicariously. These devices may also help the reader to identify relevant 
states and feelings that they may have experienced in other contexts. 
These may be similar to the states that the narrator is attempting to point 
to. This can enable the reader to, for example, understand particular 
states even when they have not had the specific experiences referred to 
by the narrator. 
These approaches can also help to engage emotions that provide 
the reader with the motivation to undertake the sustained work on 
themselves required to develop higher cognition. 
Of course, a disadvantage of adopting such a structure for the 
book is that these final two chapters will unavoidably repeat some of the 
ideas that were first introduced in the narrative chapters of the book. But 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
324 
 
I have minimized repetition as much as possible, and have written these 
final chapters on the assumption that readers have read and assimilated 
earlier chapters, at least to some extent. Overall, for readers who have 
the potential to develop higher cognition, I think the benefits of my 
approach will significantly outweigh the disadvantages. 
For these reasons, I recommend that you do not skip the narrative 
chapters of the book and begin your reading here. If your cognitive 
'center of gravity' is currently at the analytical/rational level, what 
follows is unlikely to make sense to you, unless you have first read and 
absorbed the earlier material. 
I will begin by providing a broad overview of what you will need 
to do to scaffold metasystemic cognition. After this overview, I will 
consider in detail each of the specific steps that you will need to take. 
Metasystemic cognition is the capacity to construct mental 
models of dynamic, complex phenomena. Examples include models of 
evolving economic systems, political systems, cognitive systems, other 
psychological systems, physiological systems, organisms, and 
ecosystems. 
An individual who is equipped only with analytical/rational 
thinking will not be able to construct such models. Such an individual 
will be capable of constructing and utilizing mental models that can 
adequately represent only phenomena that are mechanistic and that can 
be analysed. Broadly, these are the phenomena that can be understood 
by modern science. Unfortunately, however, most of reality cannot be 
modelled effectively using such models. 
As discussed earlier in the book, the development and spread of 
metasystemic cognition is essential if humanity is to survive the 
existential threats that we face currently. The drivers of environmental 
destruction, including global warming and the threat of nuclear war, are 
all dynamic, complex phenomena. They cannot be fully understood with 
analytical/rational thinking alone. Without metasystemic cognition, 
humanity will also be unable to identify and develop the complex 
interventions that are required in our political, economic, and 
environmental systems if we are to mitigate these existential threats. 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
325 
 
More broadly, humanity must advance beyond analytical/rational 
thinking if we are to be capable of developing a comprehensive 
evolutionary worldview and using it to guide our future evolution. Such 
a worldview is essential if humanity and life on this planet are to survive 
and thrive indefinitely into the future. 
As discussed earlier, developmental psychologist Robert Kegan 
has identified in broad terms what individuals must achieve if they are to 
advance from one developmental level to another. The critically 
important step is that processes that were part of the subject at one level 
must become object to a new subject at a higher level. This enables them 
to be manipulated and optimised consciously by the higher level. 
We can apply this general insight to the development of 
metasystemic cognition from analytical/rational thinking: an 
analytical/rational thinker is psychologically embedded in their 
analytical/rational thinking. It is part of their subject. Processes that are 
part of an individual's subject are unconscious. The subject cannot see 
and modify them or watch them in real-time. They are not object to the 
subject. 
As such, the analytical/rational thinker has no psychological 
distance from their thought processes. Consequently, they cannot see the 
limitations of their thinking. As a further consequence, they tend to 
believe that analytical/rational thinking can solve any problem that has 
the potential to be solved. Unable to perceive their thinking from the 
outside, they cannot see that analytical/rational thinking can only solve a 
very small proportion of the challenges we face in life, individually or 
collectively. 
Nor can they consciously control their analytical/rational 
thinking or modify it. Their thinking has them, they do not have it. It is 
not a tool that they can freely choose to use or not to use, depending on 
the circumstances. Instead, they are slaves to analytical/rational thinking. 
This all suggests that to develop higher-level cognition, 
individuals first need to dis-embed from analytical/rational thinking and 
constitute a new, higher-level subject. Their analytical/rational thinking 
will be object to this new subject. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
326 
 
Initially, this new, higher-level subject will largely be a 'silent 
witness' of analytical/rational thought processes. But in order for the 
individual to develop metasystemic cognition, this higher subject/self 
will then need to be equipped with new thought processes. Appropriate 
new thought processes will enable the higher subject/self to build mental 
models of complex phenomena. 
As I have outlined earlier, the acquisition of these new thought 
processes can be assisted significantly by the thought forms that have 
been identified and developed by Otto Laske. Appropriate use of these 
thought forms can greatly facilitate the scaffolding of the knowledge and 
skills needed to equip the new subject/self with metasystemic cognition. 
Of course, Laske describes these thought forms using declarative 
knowledge. Consequently, it will be necessary for the individual to 
convert them into procedural skills by practicing their use. This is 
largely because many aspects of complex phenomena that need to be 
represented in mental models cannot be represented declaratively. For 
example, they include processes and patterns for which words do not 
exist. 
Eventually, with sufficient practice, you will be able to use the 
thought forms fluidly and largely unconsciously, like other procedural 
skills, once they are learned sufficiently. This will enable you to use the 
thought forms to construct and manipulate mental models of complex 
phenomena. 
In the next chapter, I will deal in detail with practices that you 
can use to develop the procedural knowledge needed to apply the 
thought forms to build complex models and embody metasystemic 
cognition. 
Developing a new, higher-level self that is dis-embedded from 
thought and feeling is a critically important step towards acquiring 
metasystemic cognition. 
First, it enables analytical/rational thinking to be seen as object. 
This will enable the new self to see the limitations of this thinking, and 
to see what needs to be included in its cognitive processes in order to 
overcome those limitations. 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
327 
 
Second, by dis-embedding from thought processes, the new 
subject can intervene in them and modify them. This will enable it to 
improve them in whatever ways are needed to build new thought 
processes that are better at constructing metasystemic models. 
Ultimately, this capacity will enable individuals to develop new and 
modified cognitive processes that overcome the limitations of their 
analytical/rational thinking. 
Third, by dis-embedding from thought and feeling, the new self 
can access right-brain capacities such as pattern recognition and 
intuition. Access to these important enabling capacities would otherwise 
be blocked by absorption in thought and feeling. This is because 
embeddedness in thought and feeling exhausts the limited bandwidth of 
consciousness, preventing conscious access to other capacities. Access 
to these capacities is essential if the new self is to have the ability to 
include representations in its models of aspects of complex phenomena 
that are too fluid and ill-defined to be captured in words and 
propositions. 
Fourth, the ability of the new self to dis-embed from emotions 
and feelings will enable individuals to free themselves from the dictates 
of their evolutionary past and conditioning. When they choose to do so, 
they will be able to move at right angles to their biological, cultural, and 
social predispositions and conditioning. This capacity is critically 
important for enabling individuals to implement the superior strategies 
identified by their higher cognition. 
Whenever an individual's pre-existing desires, emotional 
predispositions, or motivations conflict with the best strategy, the 
individual will be able to escape those conflicts and act optimally. As 
has been discussed earlier, the full development and elaboration of such 
a capacity enables an individual to become what I have referred to as a 
self-evolving being. 
This brings us to a key challenge for the development of 
metasystemic cognition: How can an individual actually dis-embed from 
analytical/rational cognition and from emotions and other feelings, and 
see them as object? How can an individual develop a new, higher-level 
subject? 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
328 
 
Following this overview, I will deal in detail with practices and 
approaches that will enable you to build these capacities. However, it is 
important to emphasise that developing these abilities cannot be 
achieved using the intellect alone. By itself, the acquisition of 
declarative knowledge will not install the capacities in you. Their 
achievement necessitates the acquisition of experiential and procedural 
knowledge and skills. Like skills in general, these can be acquired only 
through appropriate practices and training. 
In summary, two key capacities need to be scaffolded to enable 
metasystemic cognition. The first is to develop a new, higher-level 
subject to which thinking and feeling are object. The second is to install 
a capacity for metasystemic cognition in this new subject. 
I will now deal in detail with how you can scaffold these 
capacities. The remainder of the book will outline the key practices and 
knowledge you need. 
I will begin with the practices and knowledge required to dis-
embed from one's existing thinking and feeling. The goal is to develop a 
new, higher-level subject/self that is not controlled by thinking and 
feeling, and that can therefore modify existing thought processes in 
order to correct their limitations and deficiencies. Building such a new 
self provides important enabling skills for the development of 
metasystemic cognition. 
Up until recently, the main source of these kinds of practices has 
been the religious and spiritual traditions. Over thousands of years, the 
traditions have developed and spread various forms of meditation 
practice that can scaffold some of the key elements of the enabling 
capacities that we have identified. 
The reason why the traditions developed these practices is not 
because they wanted to scaffold higher cognition in their followers. 
Rather, it is primarily because the practices are capable of producing 
altered states of consciousness. These altered states tend to be able to be 
used to reinforce the belief systems that are fundamental to the 
traditions. 
The altered states are often experienced as 'profound' and as 
evidencing a reality different from what is experienced in ordinary life. 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
329 
 
This provides fertile ground for generating and reinforcing beliefs 
involving gods, spirits, and other supernatural phenomena. 
However, we now understand that these altered states are a 
product of the way in which human psychology is organised, rather than 
a reflection of a different reality. We can explain the states and their 
effects using a science-based understanding of human psychological 
functioning. 
For example, most practices developed by the traditions produce 
altered states by training the capacity to dis-embed from thought and 
feeling. Prior to the development of such a capacity, individuals are 
embedded in their thoughts, emotions, and other feelings. Generally, as 
you can confirm in your own experience, when an individual is 
embedded in a sequence of thoughts, their awareness is fully absorbed in 
their thinking. There is no conscious awareness left over that enables 
them to simultaneously maintain awareness of things outside their 
thinking—e.g., awareness of their environment. Consequently, if you 
engage in serious thinking while you go for a walk in a park, the park 
disappears from your conscious awareness while you are thinking. 
The reason why we get embedded in thoughts or feelings is that 
our consciousness has a very narrow bandwidth. As many experiments 
have demonstrated, conscious processing is serial and slow. So, when 
we are thinking, our train of thought completely fills the narrow 
bandwidth of consciousness. Consequently, we experience our 
awareness as contracting down and being filled by our thinking. 
For similar reasons, embeddedness in thought blocks other 
information from consciousness, even though this information might be 
highly relevant to our thinking. For example, if we are heavily involved 
in thought, access to emotional information and other right-brain 
capacities tends to be blocked. 
This experimentally-confirmed understanding25 of the limited 
bandwidth of consciousness seems to conflict with the belief of the 
religious and spiritual traditions that consciousness is 'infinite' and 
'unbounded'. However, this apparent disagreement exists only on the 
 
25 For details, see Stewart (2007) 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
330 
 
surface. Experientially, we cannot detect the boundaries of our conscious 
awareness. We are unable to perceive a horizon at which consciousness 
ends. This is the sense in which it is 'infinite'. But these experiences do 
not contradict the fact that humans are able to give full conscious 
attention to only limited areas of their external or internal environment at 
any time. 
Currently, human beings spend their lives embedded in their 
thinking and feeling. They live almost entirely in contracted awareness. 
Only rarely do circumstances arise that produce dis-embeddedness and 
enable them to experience uncontracted awareness. 
When consciousness is uncontracted, very little of the narrow 
bandwidth of consciousness is taken up. Consciousness is not absorbed 
in thinking and feeling. Consciousness is now able to experience 
thoughts and feelings as objects that arise along with other objects in 
awareness. The individual is no longer embedded in their thoughts or 
feelings any more than they are usually embedded in perceptions of 
physical objects that arise in awareness. 
These observations provide an experiential understanding of 
what happens when perceptions shift from being part of the subject to 
now becoming object. Currently, most individuals experience much of 
their external environment as object. Generally, their attention is not 
automatically absorbed in perceptions of physical objects. They are 
capable of giving attention to an external object, or freely taking 
attention away from it. Objects in their environment do not have them, 
they have the objects. 
When individuals develop the capacity to see thoughts and 
feelings as object, they will experience them in much the same way as 
they do physical objects. Their attention will no longer be automatically 
absorbed by the thoughts and feelings. They will be capable of choosing 
to give attention to thinking or choosing to take attention away from it. 
Thought and feeling will no longer have them. Instead, thinking and 
feelings will become tools that they can choose to use or not, depending 
on the needs of the circumstances they encounter. 
For these reasons, when an individual dis-embeds from thought 
and feeling, they will experience themselves as 'being in the present' 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
331 
 
and as 'abiding in spacious awareness'. They will experience their 
external environment as being more vivid. Dis-embedded individuals 
experience themselves and the world very differently from the way they 
did when they were 'normal'. 
Importantly, this is an extremely pleasant and peaceful 
experience. Most of our disagreeable psychological experiences occur as 
a result of our thinking, negative emotions, or other feelings. Once we 
dis-embed from them, and accept them as objects that arise in awareness 
and then dissipate, life is largely enjoyable. As Shakespeare put it: 
"There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so." 
Sustained dis-embedding from thinking, emotions, and other 
feelings will produce 'the peace that passes all understanding'. 
As I have mentioned previously, the traditions often describe the 
state produced by dis-embedding as awakening. This is because it is 
experientially analogous to awakening from dreaming sleep. In the 
dream state, awareness is embedded in the dream and its 'logic'. There 
is no wider, surplus awareness that enables the individual to evaluate 
their behaviour in the dream in the light of wider perspectives from 
outside the dream. The dreamer does not have access to a broader 
context. Typically, the dreamer acts in ways that would be seen as 
absurd when seen from such a wider context. But the dreamer is 
embedded in and absorbed by the dream. The dreamer believes the 
dream is real and that their dream behaviour makes sense. 
However, when dreamers awaken from a dream, they dis-embed 
from it, and can see their dream behaviour from a wider context. They 
can reflect on it, evaluate it, and take into account wider knowledge and 
perspectives. The awakened dreamer soon sees that their dream was not 
real. In several respects, it was absurd and did not make sense. 
When typical individuals develop the capacity to dis-embed from 
thinking and feeling, they are now able to see their previously embedded 
behaviour from a wider perspective. They realize that many of their 
earlier actions fail to make sense. Often, their former behaviour seems 
appropriate only from the limited perspective of the embedded state. 
From the wider, dis-embedded perspective that they can now inhabit, 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
332 
 
their previous behaviour will often seem absurd. It will be as if they 
have awakened from a dream. 
Of course, very few human beings ever awaken from the dream 
of normal existence to any extent. They spend their entire life absorbed 
in and being jerked around by thoughts, emotions, and other feelings. 
Consequently, they never experience the fact that their normal existence 
is as absurd as their dreaming state appears once they awaken from 
sleep. You can experience what it is like to awaken only by doing the 
necessary work to develop the ability to awaken and sustain the 
awakening. 
The religious and spiritual traditions founded their worldviews 
on the existence of these impactful states. Typically, each tradition 
suggested to its adherents that the profound experiences associated with 
the states demonstrated the validity of the tradition's belief system. Each 
tradition claimed that the profundity of the experiences provided strong 
evidence that their particular supernatural beliefs were correct, whatever 
they were. 
But in order to be taken seriously, the traditions had to go beyond 
merely talking about these states and experiences. They had to develop 
practices enabling their followers to experience the states. Not only did 
they have to tell possible followers about the significance of these states, 
they had to enable them to access them. 
Appropriate rituals, praying, collective hymn singing, 
worshipping in grand cathedrals, drugs, and other methods could all, at 
least momentarily, quieten the thinking mind and provide a taste of the 
altered state that arises when an individual is not embedded in thinking 
and feeling. But by far, the most successful forms of psycho-technology 
that have been developed by the traditions to produce awakening are 
meditation-like practices. 
Religious and spiritual traditions have had to develop and teach 
appropriate meditation-like practices in order to deliver on their 
promises to provide adherents with transcendent experiences during 
their lives. 
Christianity appears to be an exception. However, during its 
early development, it relied heavily on experiential practices, and several 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
333 
 
of the statements attributed to Jesus Christ by the Bible can be readily 
interpreted as referring to the kind of states I am pointing to. For 
example: "Be still and know that I am God,"; "The kingdom of God is 
within you,"; "Unless you change and become like little children, you 
will never enter the kingdom of heaven,"; and so on. 
But in its violent attempts to exterminate Gnosticism in the third 
century AD, Christianity gave itself a spiritual lobotomy. It destroyed 
the esoteric elements in Christianity that had focused on practices that 
produced awakening in this life, here on Earth. Consequently, without 
practices that could produce awakening, Christianity had no alternative 
but to focus on promising its followers access to transcendence after 
they died. So far, they have gotten away with it, to some extent. 
At their core, the meditation-like practices developed by the 
traditions contain a common element. This core element can be 
combined with other processes to produce a set of practices that can 
potentiate the scaffolding of metasystemic cognition. 
This core element requires the individual to practice disengaging 
repeatedly from thought and feeling. The practice begins with the 
individual resting attention on sensations that are 'inert' in the sense that 
they do not tend to generate thinking or feeling. The sensations of the 
breath are a common example. Resting conscious attention on inert 
sensations tends to fill the limited bandwidth of consciousness with bare 
sensations, thereby helping to exclude thoughts and feelings. 
When individuals find that they have again become embedded in 
thought or feeling, they gently and non-judgementally disengage from it 
and move their attention back to the inert sensations. This process of 
disengagement is repeated whenever meditators find that they have 
again become embedded in thought or feeling. 
Initially, this practice is made easier by undertaking it in an 
environment that is free from distractions. The meditator can also reduce 
the potential for distractions by relaxing and dropping all intentions at 
the beginning of the meditation and during it. 
As the meditation proceeds, repetition of this process tends to 
still the meditator's mind, making it easier to remain dis-embedded and 
experience the altered states that this produces. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
334 
 
Regular daily practice strengthens the meditator's ability to dis-
embed and remain dis-embedded. 
The traditions developed very effective practices for producing 
the transcendent states associated with dis-embedding. However, they 
did not develop additional practices for producing higher cognition and 
enhanced agency. As I have previously discussed, the traditions pursued 
the right-hand path. Its goal is absorption in the absolute, and its maxim 
is "thy will be done". In general, they were not interested in producing 
self-mastery and enhancing agency in this world. 
The traditions had no interest in scaffolding higher cognition in 
order to enable adherents to act more strategically and intelligently in the 
real world. Their belief systems were focused on transcendence. In 
particular, the form of awakening they pursued was passive and 
surrendered. It was not active. They were happy for the higher-level 
subject to remain a surrendered, silent witness, rather than to equip it 
with higher cognition. 
As such, the meditation-like processes developed by the 
traditions need to be further modified and extended if they are to be 
capable of scaffolding self-mastery and higher cognition. 
Before we explore how this can be done, it is worth mentioning 
that the explanations given by the traditions for why their practices work 
cannot be relied upon. Every tradition provides such explanations. But 
across traditions, the explanations are often inconsistent and mutually 
contradictory. Furthermore, the explanations often rely on supernatural 
phenomena. In addition, each tradition relies on the particular 
supernatural phenomena that are peculiar to its worldview, contributing 
further to the contradictions between traditions. 
The core practice developed by many traditions is effective. But 
in order to understand why and how it functions, it is necessary to take a 
science-based approach, and to strip from the core practice the 
supernatural explanations given by the various traditions. 
It is then necessary to extend the core practice in several ways if 
it is to be capable of scaffolding enhanced agency and higher cognitive 
capacities. 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
335 
 
These extensions include modifying the practice so that it can be 
used 'off the meditation cushion', in the midst of ordinary life. First and 
foremost, this requires the practitioner to learn how to use a source of 
'insert' sensations that are 'portable'—i.e., that can be used effectively 
while the practitioner is engaged in everyday experiences, not just when 
sitting on a meditation cushion in a quiet room. 
Many find that resting attention on the sensations of the breath 
does not work very well for this purpose. This is because these 
sensations are changing continually, and thus can generate distractions. 
As I have mentioned earlier, I also found that resting dis-embedded 
attention on the external environment was ineffective for maintaining 
dis-embeddedness for extended periods—the external environment also 
provides many distractions. Collective practices undertaken in a quiet 
environment also have limitations—they do not translate easily to 
situations where you are on your own in the midst of ordinary life. 
This inert source of sensations will need to be suitable for 
'anchoring' the individual in the dis-embedded state. By this I mean that 
when the individual is in a dis-embedded state in the midst of ordinary 
life, they will need to be able to keep part of their attention resting on the 
source of inert sensations in their body. Doing so will help to ensure that 
this part of their attention remains shielded from potential distractions, 
unlike the remainder of their attention which is out in their external 
environment. Achieving this will tend to anchor the individual in the 
awakened state, and help to prevent them from re-embedding in thought 
and feeling. 
A further way in which the core practice needs to be extended is 
to use it in the service of agentic goals. At first, this may seem 
paradoxical because part of the core practice is surrendering and letting 
go of goals and motivations. However, once this part of the practice has 
contributed sufficiently to achieving dis-embedding, the individual can 
reintroduce goals and agency, but not in a way that engenders re-
embedding. The witness will continue to be silent, but it will now be 
goal-oriented. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
336 
 
This is a very important modification of the core practice, given 
that the overarching goal of the modified practice is to enhance agency 
and intelligence. 
What kinds of practices can assist the development of such a 
capacity for dis-embedded agency? 
Individuals can use dis-embedding consciously and intentionally 
to disengage from strong negative emotions that are maladaptive. They 
can train themselves to come into the present whenever they encounter 
emotionally-challenging circumstances and to watch without re-
embedding as their emotions emerge in real-time and dissipate. This 
creates a 'window of opportunity' in which they can choose to act in 
more adaptive ways. It gives them the capacity to move at right angles to 
their emotional predispositions. 
A similar practice can be used in circumstances that produce 
maladaptive thinking in the form of unproductive worry and 
catastrophizing. 
Like all practices that are repeated often enough, these kinds of 
responses to challenges will eventually become automatic and will not 
require conscious attention. Whenever the individual encounters 
circumstances that previously triggered negative emotions or thinking, 
the circumstances will now evoke a learned response to dis-embed and 
remain dis-embedded.  
In some cases, thoughts and emotions produced by particular 
challenges might be overwhelming. These challenges might contract 
awareness and defeat attempts to dis-embed and to remain present. In 
these cases, instead of trying to use the practice when the challenges 
actually arise in real life, individuals can undertake the practice in their 
imagination. 
The individual can use visualization and related techniques to 
imagine encountering these kinds of challenges, and can undertake the 
practice in these imagined circumstances where the thoughts and 
emotions are not so overwhelming. A possibility that is becoming 
increasingly available is to begin by undertaking the practice in an 
appropriate virtual environment. 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
337 
 
An important goal of these practices is to be able to become and 
remain dis-embedded in the face of higher levels of distraction. To 
develop this capacity, the individual can begin by practicing in a quiet 
environment, 'on the meditation cushion'. Then, they can set out 
intentionally to use the practice in circumstances that are progressively 
more distracting. The ultimate goal is to train the ability to become dis-
embedded and to remain so in any circumstances, no matter how 
triggering or challenging those circumstances may have been previously. 
The achievement of this goal has been referred to as 'subject 
permanence'. When this has been attained, the individual is continually 
awake. Gurdjieff describes it as the emergence of 'permanent I'. It is 
what I am referring to here as the emergence of a permanently dis-
embedded, higher-level subject or self that can consciously and 
intentionally manage the pre-existing psychological processes of the 
individual into a coherent and agentic whole. 
In his characteristically provocative fashion, Gurdjieff suggested 
that until individuals develop such an 'I' that continues to be dis-
embedded in the face of distractions, the individual does not possess any 
'I' that is psychologically enduring. Their 'I' winks in and out of 
existence as they dis-embed and then re-embed. They do not have 
anything permanent that has the potential to continue in existence 
indefinitely. 
Gurdjieff went on to draw the conclusion that humans are not 
born with a soul. A soul is something that humans have to build and 
develop intentionally during their lives through intense work on 
themselves. At present, almost no humans do so. 
It is also worth noting here that when this higher-level subject 
emerges, it tends to experience itself as standing outside time. This is 
because it is not embedded in the perceptions, thoughts, and emotions 
that deal with events in time and mark time's passage by changing 
continually. Instead, it stands outside and is unaffected by these events. 
The higher self experiences itself as awareness, the ground of all 
perceptions, and this awareness never changes. As the Bhagavad Gita 
states, it experiences itself as having never been born and never dying. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
338 
 
Consequently, the new subject can experience itself as existing 
outside time, in eternity. When resting in this new self, individuals can 
experience themselves as having eternal life. Arguably, this is the eternal 
life promised by the Christian Bible. Of course, it is not the same as 
actually achieving immortality. 
Of course, these kinds of metaphorical descriptions will often be 
misinterpreted by those who have never had the experiences that these 
metaphors are pointing to. Taking the metaphors literally can never 
produce an accurate understanding of what they are attempting to 
describe. If an individual has not had the relevant experiences, no words 
exist that can produce those experiences in the individual. Words or 
symbols alone are incapable of enabling them to experience what is 
being pointed to. 
Reading books about what sugar tastes like will not enable an 
individual to experience the taste of sugar. Nor will scientific 
explanations about how our taste buds function. The only way we can 
ever experience what sugar tastes like is to actually taste the sugar. 
It is for these reasons that the original teachings of the founders 
of the great spiritual and religious traditions are often misunderstood by 
their followers in subsequent generations. Rarely do the founders 
themselves actually write anything about their teachings. What they 
offer is not words. Instead, they offer access to impactful experiences 
and altered states. 
The founders of the traditions seem to understand that these 
experiences cannot be conveyed in words to those who have never had 
the experiences. Some actually predict that their teachings will be 
misunderstood, except by the tiny minority who work intensely on 
themselves with the relevant practices. Their teachings can only be 
understood properly by those who actually taste the sugar. 
As I have mentioned, it is possible to extend meditation-like 
practices in ways that improve their potential to enhance agency. The 
extended practices that are most relevant for the purposes of this book 
are those that can be used to scaffold higher cognition. In these 
practices, the individual intentionally and consciously uses dis-
embedding as a tool for building enhanced cognition. 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
339 
 
An important example is the use of dis-embedding to access 
what I have referred to somewhat metaphorically as 'right-brain 
capacities'. We have discussed how these resources are essential for 
embodying metasystemic cognition. Foremost amongst these are 
capacities that enable us to recognise and use patterns and processes that 
cannot be represented adequately with words. In order to build mental 
models of complex phenomena, an individual must be able to represent 
processes and patterns in their model building.26 
Complex dynamic processes and patterns are unanalysable, so 
they cannot be adequately represented in analytical/rational models. 
Analytical/rational thinking is highly reliant on declarative, left-brain 
resources. 
In significant part, the development of metasystemic cognition 
necessitates the integration of right and left-brain capacities. The 
construction of mental models of complex, dynamic phenomena requires 
both capacities. Speaking somewhat metaphorically, metasystemic 
cognition requires the synthesis of right and left-brain processes, the 
integration of head and heart; the marriage of the bride and the groom; 
the integration of feeling and thinking; and so on. 
This integration can be facilitated intentionally by making use of 
the fact that dis-embedding from thinking is capable of 'unblocking' 
access to right-brain resources. When individuals are embedded in their 
thoughts, the narrow bandwidth of consciousness is fully loaded with 
thinking. This blocks the conscious mind from recruiting relevant 
resources from the unconscious mind and right-brain processes. Dis-
embedding unloads consciousness, and enables these resources to 
emerge into conscious awareness as, for example, intuition or insight. 
The potential of circumstances that produce dis-embedding to 
enhance cognition functions such as problem-solving has long been 
recognised. However, their ability to do so has not generally been 
 
26 For comprehensive details about right and left-brain capacities, see 
McGilchrist (2009, 2021). However, McGilchrist's books do not contain detailed 
practices and other technologies that enable individuals to integrate these disparate 
capacities, including in the service of higher cognition. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
340 
 
explained in these terms. Taking a shower, walking in a natural 
environment, having a nap, or listening to certain kinds of music, can all 
quieten the mind and reduce the ability of thinking to dominate 
consciousness. 
However, meditation-like dis-embedding practices are far more 
effective and convenient. They enable an individual to dis-embed at any 
time and in any circumstance. Most importantly, they enable the 
individual to intersperse thinking with unloaded, uncontracted 
awareness. Eventually, continued use of the practice will facilitate the 
fluid and effortless integration of conscious thinking with uncontracted 
awareness, enabling access to unconscious processing whenever it is 
useful. 
A very effective method for enhancing the agentic and cognitive 
capacities of the new self is to use them to build mental models of 
complex phenomena. Building your own mental models and recursively 
improving them exercises the capacity to see your thought processes as 
object, to evaluate them, and to manipulate them consciously. 
Individuals who want to enhance their capacity to dis-embed 
intentionally and to install their higher-level self with metasystemic 
cognition will actively look for opportunities to build mental models of 
complex phenomena from first principles and to improve them 
recursively. Such a practice is central to the development of 
metasystemic cognition. In the next chapter, I will deal in detail with 
these kinds of self-scaffolding practices. 
The more skills are practiced, the more their use will become 
automatic, and the less that they will absorb consciousness and contract 
awareness. It is like learning to drive a car. Initially, it requires focused 
attention. However, individuals will eventually be able to drive the car 
largely automatically, with conscious attention directed elsewhere, 
unless circumstances arise that cannot be dealt with effectively by their 
learned, automatic behaviours. 
As I have outlined, the original core practices developed by the 
religious and spiritual traditions can be enhanced and modified to 
produce new forms of practice that are purpose-built to enhance agency 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
341 
 
and cognitive capacity. What would these new practices look like in 
detail? 
I will now set out to provide a general guide to the central 
elements of extended dis-embedding practices. 
Of course, this guide should be used in the same way that a 
manual that attempts to teach a better tennis serve should be used. 
Reading and fully understanding everything in the manual will not by 
itself enable you to perform the enhanced service action described in the 
manual. Nor will achieving one hundred percent on an examination 
about the manual's contents. 
Instead, in order to use the tennis-serving manual effectively, you 
will need to try out the particular movements that the manual is 
attempting to describe. This will involve experimentation and trial-and-
error. This is because the words in the manual cannot specify precisely 
how you should perform each movement. This problem is exacerbated 
by the fact that everyone is different, so the precise movements that are 
optimal for one individual are unlikely to be optimal for another. The 
manual cannot specify particular movements that will work for 
everyone. 
Initially, your attempts will probably not get you far. They could 
make your overall serve worse. You will have begun by experimenting 
with different movements, but need some way to evaluate whether you 
are headed in the right direction. The key step that you will need to take 
to get past this point is to have some way to judge whether the new 
movements that you are trying out are, in fact, the 'correct' movements. 
If you are to make progress, you will need some method of 
assessing whether your attempts to implement the required movements 
are successful or not. You will have begun by experimenting with 
alternatives using trial-and-error, but then you will need to be guided by 
a feedback mechanism. This feedback will need to inform you when 
trial-and-error has produced the actual kind of movement that is 
intended by the manual, and that works for you. 
An effective manual will help you to develop and utilize such a 
feedback mechanism. The manual will assist you to recognise a feeling 
in your body or some 'shape' to your movements that will reliably 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
342 
 
indicate that you are perfecting the movement. This will enable you to 
keep trying out different approaches until you achieve the outcome 
identified by the manual. The manual will provide you with practical 
indicators that enable you to judge whether you are performing a 
movement in the way that it is attempting to teach. You will learn from 
the consequences of your trial-and-error explorations. 
This process will be more effective if the manual provides an 
indicator of success for each specific movement involved in producing 
an effective serve. This will be far more useful than if the only indicator 
it provides is for the serve in its entirety. 
Ideally, indicators should be provided for each key movement in 
the serve, then for each relevant combination of these movements, and 
so on, producing a hierarchy of indicators. 
In summary, when attempting to use the practices I will now 
outline, remember that you will not 'get them right' easily. You will 
need to be extremely persistent, explore with trial-and-error, and 
continually evaluate your attempts by testing them against their intended 
effects. If you find that the practices that I outline do not seem to be 
working for you, the answer will rarely be found in the guide I am 
outlining. Rather, it will be found by experimenting and closely 
watching the consequences. 
There are many, many particular ways to undertake the core 
disengaging practice that the religious and spiritual traditions have 
developed. Thousands of guided meditations are available on YouTube. 
These can be useful to begin with. However, the key goal is to transition 
as quickly as possible to put yourself in the driver's seat in relation to 
your practices. This does not conflict with the need to surrender and 
drop all intentions at particular points in your practices. Surrendering 
can be a means for achieving an end that is being pursued intentionally. 
Most examples of the core practice begin with the practitioner 
sitting comfortably and upright on a chair in a quiet room with minimal 
distractions. Environments that produce external distractions are avoided 
because they tend to produce re-embeddedness in thoughts and feelings. 
But keep in mind that the ultimate goal of the practitioner who is 
attempting to enhance agency is to develop the capacity to dis-embed 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
343 
 
and remain dis-embedded in a highly distracting environment, including 
in the midst of all the kinds of distractions that arise in ordinary life. 
Achieving dis-embeddedness can be further facilitated by 
preliminary practices and postures that quieten the mind. This reduces 
internal distractions. These preliminary practices can include, for 
example, giving attention to a variety of inert sensations for a short 
period. 
This can include moving attention around a number of sources of 
sensation and pausing to rest attention on each in turn. For example, 
attention can be given to the feeling of air on your skin, the sensations 
where your body touches the surfaces that you are sitting on, the 
sensations arising from the soles of your feet on the floor, noises arising 
in your environment, and so on. As you rest attention on such 
sensations, you can relax further, noticing that this often makes 
sensations easier to detect. 
If you find yourself re-embedded in thought or feeling at any 
time, you gently and non-judgementally move your attention back to the 
sensations. As we have discussed, repeated disengagement and return to 
inert sensations are central to the dis-embedding practice. 
It is important to accept that continually finding yourself re-
embedded in thought and feeling is not a failure of your meditation. In 
fact, it indicates that you are not wasting your time. The purpose of the 
practice is to strengthen your ability to disengage from thought and 
feeling and to remain disengaged. This strengthening occurs by 
repeatedly practicing dis-embedding. 
The reason why you are doing the practice is to disengage 
repeatedly. If you do not find that you are re-embedding regularly and 
that you need to disengage, you are not practicing. You are not building 
up your capacity to disengage and to remain disengaged. 
If you find that you have begun to think about these issues during 
the practice and are mulling over whether you are doing it right or 
wasting your time, you have re-embedded in thought or feeling. 
Whenever you notice this occurring, you use the practice: you disengage 
your attention from the thinking and move back to sensations, gently and 
non-judgementally. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
344 
 
The test of whether you have been doing these preliminary 
practices effectively is whether your mind is quieting to some extent, 
and you are relaxing and surrendering. 
After these preliminary preparations have achieved this outcome, 
the next step is to begin the main part of the core practice. This involves 
concentrating attention for a prolonged period on a source of inert 
sensations within your body. 
Perhaps the source most used by the traditions is the sensations 
associated with the breath. But in principle, any source of inert 
sensations will suffice that persist over the course of the meditation 
practice. These include sensations within parts of the body, including, 
for example, in the feet, arms, or fingers. Or sensations in the head. This 
works whether the sensations are real or imagined or a combination. 
However, given that your ultimate goal is to use the practice to 
dis-embed and awaken in the midst of ordinary life, you need a source of 
sensations that you can use to anchor yourself successfully as you 
function in daily activities. In particular, you need a source of internal 
sensations that can be the focus of part of your attention while you are 
out and about in the world. As I have mentioned, giving attention to 
sensations associated with the breath does not achieve this effectively 
for me. The continual changes in these sensations as I breathe in and out 
and as breathing changes in different circumstances give rise to 
distractions. 
The source of sensations that work well for me on both the 
meditation cushion and in daily life are sensations in my forehead, just 
above or below the level of my eyes. 
Initially during the practice, I focus my attention on these 
sensations. This is a form of concentration meditation, that contrasts 
with a mindfulness approach. Mindfulness is generally associated with 
attention that is less concentrated and more open-focused. As a person 
who tends to live in my head, thinking continually, I found that the 
concentration approach was more effective. It could quickly and 
powerfully quieten my mind to a level where the disengaging practice 
was easier to perform. 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
345 
 
To recap, the core of the practice is to concentrate attention on 
the source of sensations; to further relax the body and to sink into the 
feelings of relaxation; to disengage attention whenever you find that you 
are re-embedded; to then move attention back to the source of 
sensations; and to do so repeatedly. You should apply the same 
processes if you find yourself embedded in meta-thinking about whether 
the practice is working, and so on. 
When I started this practice over thirty years ago, it would 
progressively quieten my mind. Then, after about twenty minutes, I 
would experience a significant state change in my awareness. 
Before I had started the practice, I had come across a simple 
attempt to describe the experience that arises when one undergoes this 
kind of state transition. The description tallied with my experience of the 
transition, and reassured me that I was on the right track. It gave me a 
useful indicator of when my practice was 'working'. The observation 
that provided this indicator was that when the transition occurs, the 
experience is always surprising and unmistakable. 
It was, and it still is after all this time. It is as if all disturbances 
within awareness that are typically caused by thought or feeling are 
quelled. Conscious awareness becomes a solid block. As I have 
mentioned, a friend describes the transition aptly as "the lake freezing 
over". The transition is accompanied by calmness and peace. As I have 
recounted earlier, I now finally know what the Bible points to when it 
refers to "the peace that passes all understanding." 
Because the state tends not to contain significant internal 
disturbances, it is relatively easy to maintain without re-embedding in 
thought and feeling. But it is far from permanent. Re-embedding will 
still occur regularly, particularly as you move out into the world. 
Continued daily practice (preferably morning and evening) will 
shorten the time that it takes for this transition to occur within any 
particular meditation session. 
Given that your goal is to transfer these capacities to ordinary 
life, it is useful at the end of each meditation session to experiment with 
attempting to maintain the state when you open your eyes. It is also 
useful to experiment with performing the practice from the outset with 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
346 
 
eyes wide open. You will find that it is still possible to concentrate part 
of your attention on sensations in your head, even if you have your eyes 
open. 
Furthermore, once the lake freezes over after a period of 
concentration meditation, it is possible to begin to practice expanding 
your awareness while you continue with the meditation. When you start 
this additional practice, your 'frozen' attention is concentrated on a 
localized area in your head. Then, you can practice expanding your 
attention outwards to encompass the inside of your head as a whole. As 
your practice develops, it will prove useful to experience this as giving 
attention to attention and to develop the ability to access the experience 
at will. To achieve this, you will need to practice resting indefinitely in 
this experience of giving attention to the source of your attention. 
As a further preparation for awakening in ordinary life, you can 
then practice expanding this attention to encompass the remainder of 
your body. It is worth emphasising here that when attention is expanded, 
its focus is not shifted from one location to another. Instead, it is 
expanded from where it was originally localized in order to encompass 
the new location(s) as well. Because it is expanded, not shifted, it retains 
awareness of its original location. 
The final transition that you will need to practice is to expand 
your awareness further so that it now encompasses your environment in 
addition to your head and body. In this state of uncontracted, dis-
embedded awareness, you will be able to see your internal thoughts and 
feelings as well as your external environment as object. It is extremely 
useful for enabling self-observation of yourself and your reactions to 
events, as well as for monitoring and evaluating your thought processes. 
Once you have practiced and entrenched the ability to do this, 
you can then begin to use it to further extend the awakened state beyond 
the end of the formal, sitting meditation. As a first step, when you open 
your eyes, you can practice continuing to be aware of your head and 
body, but not of the environment. You will find this easier to maintain 
than expanding your awareness immediately to include your 
environment. The environment will tend to be a source of distractions. 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
347 
 
As you apply and experiment with these practices, you will 
increasingly learn to be in the world with your eyes open in spacious 
awareness that accepts and surrenders to whatever arises in your 
environment. However, retaining part of your attention anchored in your 
body on your attention is critically important for maintaining such a 
state. 
As you practice your way through these phases, you will likely 
encounter several difficulties and challenges. As very much a head-
orientated person, I found it relatively easy to rest attention on attention 
in my head, and then to expand this into spacious awareness of my head 
and my environment. I also had little difficulty expanding awareness to 
encompass the space within my body. But this awareness of my body 
tended to be empty of feelings and emotions. Even in the midst of 
ordinary life, internal bodily feelings and sensations did not figure much 
in my awareness. 
However, my bout of general anxiety disorder and the anxiety-
like symptoms that I experienced when withdrawing from mood 
stabilizers helped change this. It propelled me to give far greater 
attention to what was happening in my body than I had ever done before. 
The need to deal with these extremely negative experiences drove me to 
develop the capacity to give full attention to my emotional system and 
other internal bodily processes, and to radically accept and surrender to 
whatever arose. 
The resources that helped me most to achieve these goals were 
Judith Blackstone's book 'Trauma and the Unbound Body'27 and her 
guided meditations, which are available on YouTube. Broadly, her 
practices involve using surrendered attention to identify and inhabit any 
areas of the body in which relevant emotions and related feelings cannot 
be observed, experienced, and radically accepted. The practices help to 
surface these blockages and deal with them, eventually enabling 
expanded awareness to fully inhabit the body and the processes that arise 
within it. 
 
27 Blackstone (2018) - see References 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
348 
 
As Judith Blackstone points out, we might learn to cope with 
childhood trauma by suppressing awareness of the painful emotions that 
the trauma triggers within our bodies. One method that we might use to 
achieve this is to fill the limited bandwidth of consciousness with 
incessant thinking. Fully embedded in thought, we no longer feel the 
painful emotions. Problem solved! This would work fine if emotions did 
not provide us with an important source of information that helps us to 
adapt effectively, particularly in social situations. 
Learning to remove these kinds of blockages is very important 
for enhancing agency in the world. As a teenager, I was intrigued by the 
Gurdjieffian idea that a key goal in working on oneself should be to have 
all the psychological centers that comprise a human being working 
together. The three main centers he refers to are the intellectual center, 
which is experienced predominantly in the head; the emotional center, 
which is experienced predominantly in the heart; and the physical center, 
which is experienced primarily in the abdomen. 
Gurdjieff argued that it is only when these three centers work 
together that individuals maximize their potential to adapt effectively to 
challenges. Only then can they access all the relevant resources of the 
three centers. If their response is to be optimal, it needs to be able to call 
on whatever combination of head, heart, and physical resources is 
optimal. 
However, Gurdjieff's writing did not outline in detail any 
practices that could be used to develop this capacity. 
I realized after I began to use Judith Blackstone's practices that 
they provide a royal road to achieving the mode of functioning that 
Gurdjieff was pointing to. Before long, in the midst of ordinary life, I 
could rest in spacious, dis-embedded awareness that encompassed my 
head and body. In this state, I could experience the openness and 
sensitivity of each of the three centers—intellectual, emotional, and 
physical. In particular, as Judith Blackstone promises, by inhabiting my 
heart and chest, I could now experience deeper, more fluid emotional 
responsiveness to my environment, including to people I interacted with. 
Previously, I could enter and rest in spacious, dis-embedded 
awareness at will. But to a large extent, this awareness encompassed 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
349 
 
only my mind and environment. Once I had dis-embedded from 
thinking, I was in spacious, peaceful awareness. I interpreted this 
experience as being fully in the present and awakened. But it was not 
until I had to deal with anxiety and came across Judith Blackstone's 
practices that I discovered that much more was required. In addition to 
being present and dis-embedded, it is also necessary to have full access 
to all the resources of intellect, emotion, and the body. Awareness must 
encompass all three centers, simultaneously. 
The development of this capacity significantly improved my 
agency and effectiveness in the world. In this state, I could draw on 
whatever intellectual, emotional, and physical resources I possessed that 
were relevant to the challenges I encountered. I was not just present 
passively. Instead, I could now access a state of dis-embedded presence 
in which I was silently and peacefully poised to respond optimally to 
whatever challenges arose. 
Many individuals have internal blockages that impede the free 
expansion and movement of awareness around their body and mind. 
However, childhood traumas or other causes of blockages are likely to 
vary among individuals. Furthermore, the individual is probably 
unaware of the specific parental behaviour or other events that produced 
them. 
However, as Blackstone suggests, if you give the blockages dis-
embedded attention, they and their underlying causes will tend to surface 
into conscious awareness. Then, when the effects of past trauma surface, 
you can continue to accept whatever arises and witness it fully in dis-
embedded awareness. This will tend to extinguish any maladaptive 
learning, conditioning, and suppression that was produced by the 
trauma. 
This process can be accelerated by using imagination and 
visualization to intensify the re-experiencing. Used in conjunction with 
dis-embedded awareness, this enables trauma to be re-experienced and 
discharged in relative safety and calm. 
Once these kinds of blockages have been removed, the next step 
is to practice dis-embedding and coming into the present in the midst of 
daily life, and maintaining that awakening. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
350 
 
There are several approaches that you can experiment with and 
practice. One is to begin by focusing at least part of your attention on the 
sources of inert sensations that you use during meditation. This is 
followed by expanding your awareness to also encompass the body, 
sensing the three centers. Finally, you expand awareness further to 
include the environment as a whole (it is worth emphasising here that 
this expanded awareness is not focused on particular objects or events in 
the environment. Instead, awareness is spacious and dis-embedded). If 
your meditation and other practices that train the elements of this 
approach have been effective, you will be able to do this quickly and 
safely, even while operating heavy machinery. 
Another approach is to begin by dis-embedding attention from 
specific events, and then expanding it to encompass your environment as 
a whole, as well as your body. When I do this, my awareness tends to be 
associated with the space in which objects and events arise, not with 
objects and events themselves. As such, it tends not to be distracted by 
events. 
A practice that can potentiate this experience and also anchor 
you in an awakened state is to continually maintain some attention on 
the space behind and above yourself. This can be done while walking 
around in a park or on city streets. Such a practice will tend to reduce 
distractions, and enable you to abide in spacious, dis-embedded 
awareness. 
In this awakened state, the world will tend to look vibrant and 
almost alive. As I have mentioned, it is what Federico Fellini was 
referring to when he said that if you see with innocent eyes, everything 
is divine. 'Innocent eyes' refers to the fact that in this awakened state, 
the conscious mind is not thinking about events or objects, nor 
interpreting or judging them. 
This is a very pleasant and enjoyable state, but it is not your end 
goal if you want to work on yourself in order to enhance agency and 
cognition. You can enter this peaceful state and maintain it simply by 
surrendering intentionality and accepting whatever arises. But if you 
want to retain and enhance agency, you will need to maintain 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
351 
 
intentionality even though you continue to be dis-embedded and in 
presence. 
Gurdjieff's state of 'self-remembering' becomes highly relevant 
here. This is a state of awakening in which you experience yourself as an 
agent who is poised and ready to act in the world as necessary to achieve 
your goals and intentions. In this state, you are not surrendering agency 
and passively accepting whatever arises. Intentionality has re-entered the 
picture. 
It is important to avoid the trap of valuing presence and 
awakening simply because it produces happiness and ease. Instead, you 
should value it because it constitutes a poised state in which you have 
access to all intellectual, emotional, and physical resources that might be 
useful for achieving your goals in whatever circumstances you 
encounter. 
The first step towards experiencing self-remembering is to dis-
embed and to focus your awareness on the source of awareness in your 
head. Then, you expand this awareness to include the space within your 
entire body, including all three centers—intellectual, emotional, and 
physical. This will enable you to sense each of these in the space of 
awareness within your body. Then, you expand your awareness to also 
include the space that encompasses your external environment. 
The most important step follows this: you focus part of your dis-
embedded attention specifically on your body, and simultaneously 
experience yourself as an embodied being that exists within a spacious 
environment. Done correctly, this will produce a direct and immediate 
experiential realization that you are an intentional being within an 
expansive environment, and that you are poised to act as you choose. 
This experience can be accentuated by simultaneously feeling in your 
three centers that "I am". 
You can further potentiate this experience by breathing deeply 
into the awareness of your body at the same time that you move focused 
attention to it. This will heighten your awareness of your body and your 
mind, and further enliven the experience of "I am". The image that 
comes to my mind when I attempt to describe this is when we blow on 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
352 
 
dying embers in a fire in order to re-kindle them—our breath causes the 
embers to light up and come alive.  
Performed effectively, this practice will produce a sudden and 
profound experience of 'being-in-the-world'. Suddenly, you will feel 
that you exist, that you have agency and intentions, that you are capable 
and effective, and that you are poised in stillness, ready to do whatever 
you need to in the world. 
This realization contrasts with the experience of normal human 
beings who are continually lost in embeddedness in one event after 
another. When embedded, you forget yourself and your larger intentions. 
Hence Gurdjieff's term 'self-remembering'. 
You will probably need to play around with these practices and 
experiment with them before you experience self-remembering. Initially, 
you will probably find it useful to practice resting attention on just the 
source of attention in your head, or on your emotional center, or on your 
physical center, or on your spacious environment as a whole, or on 
various combinations of these. Once you master these elements, you can 
attempt to put them together in the way I have described. 
But you will know when you succeed in experiencing self-
remembering. It is a powerful and unmistakable experience. It seems to 
be similar to the experience that a toddler has when it stands in front of a 
mirror and suddenly realizes that it is looking at itself. 
With practice, you will be able to enter this state at any time 
during the day, in whatever circumstances arise. It is the most 
resourceful state you can enter for meeting whatever challenges you 
encounter. While you remember yourself, you will not get lost in 
external events or internal thoughts or feelings. Instead, because part of 
your attention will rest continually on yourself, you will be anchored in 
awareness of your own being. 
In order to escape re-embedding, it is useful to maintain 
awareness of your goals and intentions. You need to be constantly aware 
that you are an agent in the world with your own agenda and strategies. 
This will enable you to continually experience a more or less permanent 
'I' or self that exists and is running the show. 

 
How to Develop Skills that Enable Metasystemic Cognition 
 
 
353 
 
It is worth emphasising here that the state of self-remembering is 
not the same as the non-dual state (also referred to as the enlightened 
state or unity consciousness or the oneness state, and so on). It is not a 
state that is pursued by, understood, or revered by the religious and 
spiritual traditions and by the right-hand path. It is not the state that I fell 
into in 2008 and soon abandoned. 
In the non-dual state, there is no experience of being a self that is 
separate from an external world. All is experienced as one. The non-dual 
state is not a state that enhances agency or cognition. 
In fact, in its most highly developed and permanent condition, it 
manifests as dysfunctionality in the world. A striking example is the 
Indian non-dual sage, Ramana Maharshi. He was so surrendered and 
absorbed that when he was sitting in his traditional, cross-legged pose, 
he would defecate on his legs whenever his body was moved to do so. 
Fortunately, he had disciples who would clean him up. But this did not 
concern him—in the non-dual state, everything seems perfect just the 
way it is, and Ramana abided in surrendered bliss. 
Developing a capacity to remember yourself in the midst of 
ordinary life will turbocharge the efficacy of all the practices I have 
outlined that use dis-embedding to enhance agency and cognition. 
First and foremost, you will be able to use self-remembering to 
enhance the effectiveness of practices that help scaffold a capacity to be 
self-evolving. As we have seen, the goal of these practices is to free 
yourself from the dictates of your evolutionary past and conditioning. 
The ability to self-remember can also be used to enhance dis-
embedding practices that, for example, enable you to stay present in 
meetings and during other interactions with people, including when 
playing sports (it will enable you to be much more aware of what is 
going on and how others are reacting in real-time); to access pattern 
recognition, intuitional, and other resources to enhance higher cognition; 
to see your thought processes as object, to identify where they are 
limited and to use your emerging higher self to correct these 
deficiencies; to enhance the ability of the new self to construct mental 
models of complex phenomena and to use the models to identify 
strategies that will enable you to achieve your goals; and to develop 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
354 
 
whatever additional skills are necessary to equip your new higher self 
with a comprehensive capacity for metasystemic cognition. 
Ultimately, if you learn how to integrate self-remembering with 
metasystemic cognition and the evolutionary worldview, you will be 
able to experience 'evolutionary self-remembering'. This entails 
experiencing yourself as an evolutionary agent embedded in an 
evolutionary environment in which you are poised to intervene. Your 
perceptions of this environment will be shaped by your mental models of 
the large-scale evolutionary processes that operate on Earth and in the 
cosmos more widely. In a state of evolutionary self-remembering, you 
can scan this spacious evolutionary environment and identify how you 
might act to support the successful evolution of life in the universe. 
However, developing and entrenching a capacity for self-
remembering is not easy. It will require intense and prolonged work on 
yourself. As I have mentioned, Gurdjieff said that you will have to work 
on yourself so hard that the soles of your feet will sweat. This was an 
understatement. I have spent a lifetime trying to understand and develop 
these capacities and am still very much a work in progress. 
However, as humanity begins to transition to metasystemic 
cognition, developing these capacities will require less effort. As we 
enter a Second Enlightenment, new practices and other supports will 
emerge to scaffold these higher abilities. 
In the meantime, it will continue to be extremely challenging.  
In the next chapter, I will outline in detail practices and 
approaches that can be used to scaffold metasystemic cognition. 
However, the fact that I have dealt first with dis-embedding capacities is 
not meant to imply that they need to be acquired before attempts are 
made to develop metasystemic cognition. If this were the case, very few 
would ever get to work on developing metasystemic cognition, and most 
of these would reach old age before they began. 
The practices and efforts that are needed to develop both dis-
embedding capacities and metasystemic cognition are often mutually 
reinforcing and synergistic. Consequently, it is more productive to work 
on the development of both capacities together.

 
 
 
355 
 
24. 
 
 
 
Scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
What practices and knowledge can scaffold metasystemic cognition in 
ourselves and others? In the previous chapter, I identified how to 
scaffold skills that help enable the development of metasystemic 
cognition. These included the ability to dis-embed from existing thought 
processes, enabling you to see them as object. This, in turn, enables you 
to evaluate your thinking, identify any deficiencies and limitations, and 
intervene in your thinking to overcome any limitations. 
Ultimately, the goal is to develop a new higher-level self that 
stands outside and manages your thinking and emotions, and that can 
develop metasystemic cognition. 
But as I emphasised at the end of the previous chapter, it is not 
necessary to develop the enabling capacities in full before you begin to 
work in earnest on acquiring metasystemic cognition. In fact, working 
on both at the same time can be optimal. This is because the learning 
processes can reinforce each other synergistically. 
As you will discover, practicing the building of metasystemic 
models requires you to attempt to see your thinking as object. Doing so 
will also exercise and strengthen your ability to build metasystemic 
models. Furthermore, progress in developing either set of skills is likely 
to increase your motivation to work on the other—it will enable you to 
experience more clearly the benefits of developing the other skill set. 
How can metasystemic cognition itself be scaffolded? First, we 
need to have a clear understanding of what metasystemic cognition 
entails. Broadly, it is the ability to build mental models of complex 
phenomena. Often, this will entail putting together mental 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
356 
 
representations of complex systems as they interact, develop, and evolve 
over time. 
Once we build these mental models, we can use them to simulate 
possible interventions, and to use the simulations to predict their 
consequences. This enables us to develop interventions and strategies 
that can be used to achieve particular goals. 
For example, the systems and processes that are currently 
producing environmental destruction on a global level are too complex 
to be modelled by analytical/rational thinking. The same applies to the 
complex interventions that are needed to modify these systems in order 
to stop their destructive impacts. However, metasystemic mental models 
of the relevant dynamical systems will enable alternative strategies and 
interventions to be simulated and tested, facilitating the identification of 
the most effective interventions. 
The first major step in scaffolding metasystemic cognition is to 
see the limitations of your current level of cognition. 
Until you take this step, you are likely to continue to believe that 
your current thinking is potentially capable of solving all problems that 
are capable of being solved by thought. You are unlikely to see that your 
thinking fails to take into account phenomena that are nonetheless highly 
relevant to many of the problems that are important to you.  
You will fail to see what is absent from your thinking because it 
is absent from your thinking. You cannot see and consider what is 
missing from your thought processes. 
Realizing that your current thinking has significant limitations 
may seriously disturb you. Until now, you have used your 
analytical/rational cognition to navigate your way through the world. 
You have generally assumed that your thinking has served you well. 
Now you are beginning to discover that it is seriously deficient and not 
fit for purpose. 
However, without this kind of deep and continuing shock to your 
psychology, you are highly unlikely to be motivated sufficiently to make 
the substantial efforts that are essential if you are to develop a higher 
level of cognition. For this, you have to lose faith in your existing 
thinking. 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
357 
 
In general, vertical development occurs only when the individual 
begins to encounter contradictions between their current beliefs and 
reality. Often this involves existential crises and breakdowns that occur 
due to the inability of the individual's existing cognitive and 
social/emotional capacities to cope with challenges they encounter. 
How can the ability to see the limitations of analytical/rational 
thinking be scaffolded? We will begin by identifying how 
analytical/rational thinking functions. Our focus will be on what it can 
do effectively and what it tends to leave out in its attempts to model 
reality. 
This understanding of analytical/rational thinking will help you 
see your thinking as object. These pointers will assist you to see the 
functioning of your own analytical/rational thinking and to see its 
limitations. 
Ultimately, this will enable you to take the second major step in 
the development of metasystemic cognition. This second step is to 
identify what new representations you need to include in your thinking if 
you are to succeed in building mental models of complex phenomena. 
Once you see what your current mental models are leaving out, you will 
be able to move your attention to these absences and begin to represent 
them in your mental models. 
As we have seen, analytical/rational thinking is the level of 
cognition that powered the emergence of science, industrialization, and 
technological development. As such, it works very effectively for 
developing the kinds of mechanistic models that underpin First 
Enlightenment science and for designing and building machine-based 
technologies. 
However, as discussed earlier, analytical/rational thinking has 
failed miserably in developing the sciences of complex dynamic 
phenomena. In particular, mainstream science heavily critiques the 
efforts of the humanities to develop rigorous models of complex social 
systems. However, mainstream science itself has failed to develop 
models and approaches that are able to overcome the deficiencies that its 
critiques have identified. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
358 
 
These difficulties all have their origins in the limitations of 
analytical/rational thinking. Broadly, analytical/rational thinking is 
restricted to modelling only those parts of reality that are analysable. 
In order for a phenomenon to be analysable, it must meet a 
number of criteria: the phenomenon must be able to be broken down into 
identifiable components; these components must be able to be precisely 
defined; they must interact together according to clearly defined laws or 
rules; the components must generally be unchanged by the interactions, 
or where they are changed, this occurs in ways that are clearly definable; 
the components can be concrete aspects of reality, or in more advanced 
forms of analytical/rational thinking, they can be abstractions; and the 
rules that specify the outcome of causal interactions may also be abstract 
rather than concrete. 
Analytical/rational thinkers are able to construct models that 
adequately represent these mechanistic, analysable parts of reality. They 
can use these models to predict how these parts of reality will unfold 
through time, and how they will react to possible interventions. The 
models are fundamentally reductionist and mechanistic. Their 
consequences can be predicted by deducing the outcomes of the clearly-
defined rules that govern interactions. Provided there are not too many 
components to keep track of, the consequences of the models can be 
'thought through' mentally, step by step by step. 
Of course, unless the characteristics of the components are 
defined clearly and unambiguously, such models cannot be thought 
through and their consequences cannot be deduced. The same applies to 
the rules and laws that govern the interactions between components. 
This is why analytical/rational thinkers typically want to start any debate 
by first defining all the relevant components of the applicable mental 
models in detail. We will see that this insistence tends to 'freeze' or to 
'reify' the components of the models, and thereby limits their ability to 
adequately model parts of reality that are constituted by complex 
phenomena that are ceaselessly changing. 
Analytical/rational models work extremely well for 
understanding and manipulating parts of reality that can be 
approximated by models that are mechanistic and analysable. Science 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
359 
 
has progressed successfully since the First Enlightenment by searching 
for and analysing those limited parts of reality that can be approximated 
by such models. 
Whenever intelligent organisms emerge on a planet, we can 
expect that their science will initially make discoveries and build models 
that can be successfully applied to analysable parts of reality. However, 
the organisms' cognitive capacity will have to develop to the 
metasystemic level before they can develop a science of their social and 
political systems and other complex phenomena. 
As I have mentioned previously, a further understanding of the 
inability of analytical/rational thinking to build models of complex 
reality can be had by comparing the world built by analytical/rational 
thinking with the 'natural' world. Currently, we are surrounded by 
objects that have been designed and built by analytical/rational thinking. 
In the main, these objects are utterly different from the objects and 
systems we find in the natural world. 
For example, we live and work in buildings with box-like 
structures. The rooms in these buildings are characterised by flat 
surfaces that meet at right angles. We drive along streets that travel in 
straight or curved lines. In our daily life, we use various kinds of 
machines to achieve our goals. These typically include motor vehicles, 
dishwashers, vacuum cleaners, personal computers, and so on. 
These are the kinds of things that analytical/rational thinking can 
conceive of and construct. Our machines and our built environment are 
generally built from simpler components that interact in pre-determined 
ways. The components are largely unchanged by these interactions, at 
least until they wear out or break. As such, they are analysable by 
analytical/rational thinking, and their design and functioning can be 
thought through. 
This is the built environment you see when you walk around the 
center of a large city. Compare it with what you see when you walk 
through a natural ecosystem, such as a rainforest. You are not 
surrounded by box-like structures characterised by flat surfaces and right 
angles. Analysable mechanisms and machines are largely non-existent. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
360 
 
Instead, you find yourself embedded in what analytical/rational 
thinking tends to perceive as an unintelligible and buzzing confusion, 
characterised at all levels by ceaseless change. Organisms are not 
mechanistic or analysable, nor are their complex interactions and the 
systems they constitute. 
We can compare these two contrasting environments with a third 
example that lies somewhere in between. A farming community still 
contains many organic systems and processes that are not machine-like. 
However, the use of analytical/rational thinking to design and construct 
the farms is evidenced by a significant reduction in the number of 
species and the division of the land into a limited variety of plots and 
fields.  
In order to construct an environment that can be managed for 
human purposes, analytical/rational thinking has to design a farm as a 
mechanism that is analysable and that can be thought through. Because 
it is unable to form mental models of complex, dynamic phenomena, it 
has to 'tame' the complex natural environment, reducing it to something 
that analytical/rational thinking can understand and manage. 
As I have mentioned earlier, attempts by mainstream science to 
develop a science of complexity have produced outcomes that are 
similar to those produced by attempts to farm ecosystems—
analytical/rational thinking has had to reduce and 'assume away' much 
of the complexity. The models produced by these efforts are incapable 
of adequately reflecting the characteristics of complex dynamical 
systems. They are largely analytical/rational reductions of complex 
phenomena. Consequently, so-called complexity science is able to 
understand complex phenomena only in the few cases in which the 
behaviour of the phenomena can be approximated by mechanistic, 
analysable models. 
But if we are to scaffold the transition from analytical/rational 
thinking to metasystemic cognition and beyond, we need to know more 
than the limitations of analytical/rational thinking. We need to 
understand what it is that analytical/rational thinking leaves out when it 
attempts to model complex phenomena, and how these absences can be 
remediated. 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
361 
 
Once we know this, we will understand what analytical/rational 
thinkers must give attention to if they are to overcome the deficiencies 
of their previous thinking. This knowledge will enable analytical/rational 
thinkers to identify those additional aspects of complex phenomena that 
must be represented in their models. It will enable them to break out of 
the mechanistic cage of analytical/rational thinking. 
As well as identifying the additional aspects of reality that they 
need to capture in their models, aspiring metasystemic thinkers will also 
need to know how to develop mental representations of these aspects. 
Not only do they need to know what is missing, but they also need to 
know how to incorporate it appropriately into their thinking and 
modelling. 
Otto Laske's Thought Form Framework is invaluable for 
assisting the aspiring metasystemic thinker to develop both of these 
capacities.28 As such, Laske's Framework makes an enormous 
contribution to the ability of individuals to develop metasystemic 
cognition in themselves and others. 
The Framework facilitates the scaffolding of a capacity to build 
mental models of complex phenomena. It identifies what is missing from 
the models of analytical/rational thinkers and what must be included to 
enable metasystemic cognition. 
In particular, the Framework identifies four categories or 
Quadrants of thought forms that tend to be missing from 
analytical/rational thinking. These are the Context, Process, 
Relationship, and 'Systems-in-Transformation' Quadrants of thought 
forms. I will deal with each of these in turn below. 
Each category contains seven thought forms, for a total of 28. 
Each thought form points to a particular kind of mental representation 
that often needs to be included in mental models of complex phenomena 
if they are to be adequately represented. 
When a thinker sets out to model a particular complex 
phenomenon, the use of the thought forms alerts the thinker to the 
possible need to represent aspects of complex phenomena that are often 
 
28 Laske (2023) - see References 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
362 
 
omitted, and suggests a way to represent those aspects in the thinker's 
mental model. 
Thought forms provide the thinker with a compendium of 
'movements in thought' that have proven useful in constructing mental 
models of the kind of complex phenomena that the metasystemic thinker 
is likely to wish to model. As such, the 28 thought forms are not meant 
to be comprehensive and exclusive of all other possibilities. Users can 
and should develop new thought forms where the need arises in relation 
to complex phenomena they are attempting to model. 
It should be remembered when using the thought forms that the 
Context, Process, and Relationship Quadrants each deal only with partial 
aspects of complex reality. They should never be used in isolation. Only 
when they are integrated together can they model complex, dynamic 
phenomena adequately. The 'Systems-in-Transformation' thought forms 
draw the attention of the thinker to the necessity of doing this, and to 
how it can be achieved. In order to model dynamical systems as they 
evolve and transform through time, all the relevant Context, Process, and 
Relationship thought forms need to be combined appropriately. 
I will discuss below in detail how the Quadrants and thought 
forms can be used to develop metasystemic cognition. This will include 
descriptions of each Quadrant and pointers to how they can be used. I 
will also discuss in some detail the use of key thought forms from each 
Quadrant. 
For a book-length treatment of the Quadrants and all 28 thought 
forms, I refer you to Otto Laske's book published by Springer: 
'Advanced System-Level Problem Solving Volume 3: Manual of 
Dialectical Thought Forms, Second Edition'29. A shorter overview is 
freely accessible online in a three-part series of articles written by Otto 
Laske and published in the Integral Leadership Review: 'Teaching the 
Dialectical Thought Form Framework'.30 Part 2 in the series includes a 
'Compact Table' of all 28 thought forms. 
 
29 Laske (2023) - see References 
30 Laske (2017) - see References 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
363 
 
I will now outline the Quadrants and the Thought Form 
Framework. Then in the second half of this chapter, I will identify how 
you can use the Quadrants and Framework in practices and exercises 
that will assist you to scaffold metasystemic cognition. 
My outline of the Quadrants and thought forms focuses on how 
they can answer key questions that face individuals who want to self-
scaffold metasystemic cognition: What specifically tends to be left out 
of the mechanistic models produced by analytical/rational thinking? 
How might the processes that tend to be left out be instead represented 
and incorporated into their models? 
We will begin with the Context Quadrant and thought forms. 
This Quadrant draws the attention of the thinker to the inability of 
analytical/rational thinking to model and take into account appropriately 
the Context in which phenomena are embedded. It alerts the thinker to 
the need to include in their models appropriate representations of 
Context. The Context thought forms assist this by identifying patterns 
and structures that often need to be included in models if they are to 
represent the impact of context adequately. 
This limitation of analytical/rational thinking stems in large part 
from the fact that mechanistic, reductionist thinking is quickly 
overwhelmed as the number of components that have a causative impact 
on phenomena increases. The greater the number of components, the 
more difficult it is to produce an analysable model that can be thought 
through. Due to combinatorial explosion, this problem tends to increase 
exponentially as the number of components increase. 
Consequently, analytical/rational thinking tends to focus on 
phenomena that can be understood successfully when they are 
considered in isolation from the rest of reality, i.e., by ignoring the 
circumstances in which they are embedded. Doing so enables a major 
source of unanalysable complexity to be excluded from its models. 
However, the downside is that this produces a major limitation in 
the ability of analytical/rational thinking to model phenomena 
effectively in circumstances where context does matter. It means that 
analytical/rational thinking can only deal effectively with phenomena 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
364 
 
that are not influenced significantly by the complex phenomena in which 
all parts of reality are embedded. 
In other words, analytical/rational thinking can understand only 
phenomena that are largely uninfluenced by the context or bigger picture 
in which they are entrenched. It is no accident that the great successes of 
First Enlightenment science came from the discovery of physical laws 
that seemed to hold true irrespective of the context. For example, the 
laws of gravitation appear to apply anywhere in the universe, even 
though the context in which relevant events occur might differ 
significantly—the laws operate the same on the surface of the Earth as 
they do in space. 
Furthermore, the machines produced by First Enlightenment 
science and technology tend to be designed to operate context-
independently—they function the same irrespective of the context in 
which the machines are embedded. 
Finally, analytical/rational thinking and the science it underpins 
have had little success in developing a science of phenomena that cannot 
be properly understood without considering their context. For example, 
in the case of the phenomena studied by the humanities, the impact of 
the context in which individuals and groups develop cannot generally be 
ignored. This has contributed to the failure of science to make much 
headway in the humanities. 
Much of physics' failure to understand quantum phenomena 
arises where context matters: For example, whether an electron acts like 
a particle or a wave depends on the context. Furthermore, the 
'measurement problem' arises from the fact that measurements are 
typically produced by a larger-scale device that imposes a change in 
context. The fact that context makes a significant difference to 
phenomena seems weird and surprising only to analytical/rational 
science. 
If analytical/rational thinkers are to overcome this limitation, 
they will need to shift their attention to what is largely ignored in their 
thinking. They will have to give attention to the context in which 
phenomena are embedded and develop the ability to model its impact on 
the phenomena that they are investigating. The Context Quadrant alerts 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
365 
 
the thinker to the need to find ways to represent Context appropriately in 
their models. 
However, when analytical/rational thinkers begin to give 
attention to modelling the relevant Context, their attempts will often fail. 
This is because they will tend to use only analytical/rational thinking to 
develop their extended models. If the context is complex and dynamic, 
as it often is, they will not be able to model its impact on the phenomena 
in question using only analytical/rational thinking. They will need to 
incorporate into their models mental representations of complex 
processes and relationships that cannot be defined in words and 
propositions. This is why the previous chapter emphasised the need to 
access 'right-brain' resources if the thinker is to model complexity 
effectively. 
The Context Quadrant and associated thought forms assist the 
developing metasystemic thinker to include Context appropriately in 
their models. The thought forms achieve this by identifying particular 
patterns that are often found to be operative when Context is important 
in shaping complex phenomena. As such, the various thought forms 
draw the attention of the thinker to recurring forms of Context that are 
useful in understanding its causal impacts, and that will often need to be 
incorporated into their models. 
In particular, the Context Quadrant draws the attention of the 
thinker to the fact that much of reality is structured in the form of a 
multi-level hierarchy. Reality tends to be stratified, with higher levels in 
the hierarchy forming the context for lower levels. There is always a 
bigger picture. 
The context tends to constrain and control lower levels. As such, 
many complex phenomena cannot be understood and modelled 
effectively unless the impacts of relevant contextual layers are 
considered. 
The Context Quadrant also reflects the fact that most organised 
wholes are comprised of multiple levels that constrain the behaviour of 
lower levels, and that are themselves embedded in larger systems and 
contexts. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
366 
 
A deceptively simple example is provided by a gorilla that lives 
within the context provided by its natural forest environment. It is likely 
to behave very differently from an identical gorilla that lives in the 
context provided by a zoo. A model of gorilla behaviour that ignores 
context and focuses only on the gorilla itself and the internal 
determinants of its behaviour will fail to account for these differences. 
Models that attempt to reduce organisms to the behaviour of their parts 
and that ignore external contexts will often fail to explain their 
behaviour. 
I will now consider the use of two of the most significant thought 
forms that fall within Otto Laske's Context category. These are TF#8, 
which recognises that many complex phenomena are contextualised by a 
larger whole (in particular, this thought form focuses more on the impact 
of context on parts); and TF#9, which recognises that in these 
architectures, the whole often subordinates the parts in order to maintain 
the whole (this thought form focuses more on the functioning and 
persistence of wholes). 
These two thought forms identify phenomena where ignoring the 
context will produce inadequate models that fail to predict how the 
phenomena unfold over time. This enables the thought forms to be used 
by a thinker to assist in identifying when and how the context in which 
phenomena unfold needs to be represented in their models. 
Consideration of these thought forms can alert the thinker to the 
need to move attention out of embeddedness in analytical/rational 
thinking that is blind to context. 
More specifically, TF#8 alerts thinkers to the fact that the 
behaviour of many entities/parts cannot be understood and modelled 
properly without considering the context in which they are embedded. 
This is particularly the case when the entities and the context that 
influences them constitute a whole that continues to exist as an ongoing 
system. 
Of course, such 'wholes' will also be embedded in a broader 
context/environment, and their behaviour can be influenced by this 
context. The behaviour of systems, particularly complex adaptive 
systems, cannot be accounted for by considering only the behaviour and 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
367 
 
interactions between the entities/parts that constitute them. 
Analytical/rational thinking and the mainstream science that it underpins 
tend to fail in these circumstances. 
Numerous examples can be given of where TF#8 is relevant, and 
where it needs to be utilized if complex phenomena are to be modelled 
adequately. These include: genetically-identical twins can exhibit 
significantly different personality traits if they are brought up in 
different families; they will also tend to differ if brought up in different 
cultures (if an individual brought up as a born-again Christian in the 
United states was instead raised in a Hindu family within an Indian 
Hindu culture, it would be extremely unlikely that the individual would 
choose to embrace fundamentalist Christianity); if you were raised in a 
sufficiently different family or cultural context, the person who you 
currently experience yourself to be would not exist; the environment in 
which individuals develop can provide them with traumas and 
contradictions that propel further adaptation and development; the 
decisions and conscious choices that individuals make will be influenced 
by the stratified hierarchy of social systems in which they are embedded 
(e.g., family, local community, school, local government, city, region, 
nation-state, and so on); a full understanding of why humans and other 
organisms have the characteristics they do must take into account the 
environment/context that has shaped their adaptation/evolution (again, it 
is often the case that the stratified nature of the environment which 
comprises a hierarchy of constraints, will need to be taken into account); 
as I have discussed earlier in the book is some detail, the behaviour of 
individuals and groups is highly dependent on the nature of any 
management/governance that constitutes the context that influences 
them—change the management and you change the behaviour of the 
entities that are governed by the management (Evolutionary 
Management Theory provides common examples of circumstances in 
which TF#8 plays a significant role and cannot be ignored). 
TF#8 alerts the aspiring metasystemic thinker to the need to take 
account of the kinds of contextual patterns embodied in these examples, 
where this is useful and necessary to model particular complex 
phenomena.  

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
368 
 
TF#9 focuses on the fact that within complex wholes, 
particularly within living systems at all levels, the context provided by 
the whole for its parts often must be taken into account—the context can 
play a significant role in maintaining and perpetuating the system as a 
whole, and adapting it through time. If thinkers ignore this, they will fail 
to be able to account for the behaviour of the system as an entirety. As 
such, in comparison with TF#8, TF#9 focuses more on the role of 
context within wholes and its function in shaping and maintaining the 
behaviour of the whole. In contrast, TF#8 focuses more on the impact of 
context on the behaviour of entities/parts. 
Evolutionary Management Theory provides many examples of 
circumstances in which a thinker must give attention to TF#9 if their 
models are to represent common complex phenomena adequately. As 
discussed in detail earlier in the book, management/context can 
intervene in a group/society/system in ways that ensure that it functions 
effectively as a coordinated and coherent whole. Management/context 
can reward cooperation that enhances the functionality of the 
society/system, punish free-riders that undermine it, align the interests of 
the parts with those of the whole, ensure that parts adapt in ways that 
contribute to the effective adaptation of the society/system (including by 
implementing cybernetic feedback loops and control systems), and so 
on. 
As we have seen, powerful contexts can also exploit groups and 
societies, rather than organise them into cooperative, evolvable wholes. 
In this common pattern, unconstrained management tends to organise a 
group or society so that it serves the interests of power, not those of the 
group as a whole. 
TF#9 alerts thinkers to the need to consider the inclusion of 
Context in the forms identified by Evolutionary Management Theory in 
their models of complex reality. This is particularly the case where the 
focus is on the role of Context in organising a functional whole.  
It is worth noting here that the Context Quadrant of thought 
forms focuses on the importance of 'vertical relationships' within 
complex phenomena. Vertical relationships include relationships 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
369 
 
between parts and wholes and between wholes and their wider 
environment. 
Often, these vertical relationships involve instances in which 
higher levels have the capacity to constrain parts at lower levels. The 
ability to constrain is the ability to influence without being influenced in 
return. This is the essence of power. 
As discussed previously, the long evolution of life on Earth 
provides many examples of management using its power to organise 
lower-level entities into larger-scale cooperative organisations. This 
potentiality has been very significant in shaping living processes. It is 
responsible for the emergence of human societies, including kin groups, 
tribal societies, kingdoms, and now human organisations that span the 
globe. 
We will see below that horizontal relationships (as opposed to 
the vertical relationships that are considered in the Context Quadrant) 
have also been significant in the evolution of life. They are considered in 
the Relationship Quadrant. 
A further example of the importance of TF#9 arises in 
psychological development, including cognitive development. Vertical 
psychological development provides a paradigmatic example of the 
emergence of a new, higher-level subject that organises lower-level 
processes into a new, functioning whole. The new, higher-level subject 
constitutes a powerful context that is capable of managing the lower, 
pre-existing levels. 
Robert Kegan's apt description of how vertical development 
arises captures the essence of this kind of emergence: as we have seen, 
he suggests that vertical development occurs when what was part of the 
subject at one level becomes object to a new, higher-level subject. These 
kinds of vertical, psychological transitions occur repeatedly throughout 
the development of individuals and the evolution of humanity. 
The inability of analytical/rational science to represent Context 
adequately in its models has largely restricted its discoveries to 
circumstances in which Context does not make a significant difference 
and can be ignored. Unfortunately, most of reality cannot be modelled 
successfully if Context is ignored. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
370 
 
Where complex context matters, mainstream science is relegated 
to the role of an impotent bystander. This is the case for most of the 
phenomena studied by the humanities. It is also the case even in the 
'hard' sciences when science is forced to grapple with Context head-on. 
For example, in quantum mechanics where context (measurement) 
seems to collapse the wave function, physics has failed to make much 
progress. 
Overall, the limitations of analytical/rational thinking have meant 
that science has so far been able to develop useful models of only a 
small proportion of reality—i.e., of the low-hanging fruit. Fortunately, 
with the emergence of metasystemic cognition, much more can be 
achieved. 
The second category of phenomena that is largely left out of 
models by analytical/rational thinking is covered by the Process 
Quadrant. Analytical/rational thinking tends to omit adequate 
representations of Process because it is largely limited to building 
mental models that are analysable and that can be thought through, step 
by logical step. 
In order for a model or a phenomenon to be analysable, it has to 
be constituted by elements/entities/parts that are defined clearly and 
unambiguously, that continue to fit the relevant definitions through time, 
and that have attributes that do not change significantly. In particular, 
analytical/rational thinking has great difficulty dealing with entities that 
are actually processes that are continually changing. Processes of this 
kind will eventually change so much that they will no longer fit the 
original definition that applied to them, and so on, ceaselessly. 
An exception exists to the lack of ability of analytical/rational 
thinking to represent processes in its models. The exception arises when 
a process can be defined clearly and when any changes that the process 
undergoes can also be defined precisely. When this is the case, 
analytical/rational thinking is able to represent the clearly-defined 
processes in analysable models. 
The Process Quadrant draws the attention of the thinker to the 
fact that their analytical/rational models will tend to be unable to 
understand much of reality because it is changing ceaselessly and 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
371 
 
incessantly. The overwhelming majority of reality is unanalysable. The 
Process Quadrant alerts the thinker to the need to find ways to represent 
these kinds of processes in their models. If they fail to do so, their 
models will be unable to model successfully much of dynamic, complex 
reality. 
In order to overcome these limitations of analytical/rational 
thinking, the task of the thinker is to identify patterns in the incessantly-
changing processes that constitute complex phenomena. The thinker 
must then be able to include these patterns and processes in their models 
wherever they have a causative impact that is relevant to the purpose of 
the model. 
As we have seen, these patterns and processes will not be able to 
be defined precisely and expressed as declarative knowledge. They will 
not be able to be described adequately in words, and therefore cannot be 
included in models as propositions. Mathematization and formalization, 
the holy grails of analytical/rational thinking, will be ineffective. 
However, humans have cognitive and social/emotional capacities 
that can recognise and utilize patterns in complex phenomena. The 
details of how these capacities undertake these functions are generally 
outside conscious awareness. But the fact that they can do this is 
unmistakable and beyond question. 
For example, we can recognise a friend's face in a crowd of a 
hundred other people we have never met before. And when we enter a 
social environment, our emotional system can quickly and consciously 
appraise the nature of any intense interactions that are taking place. We 
pick up 'the vibe' almost instantaneously. We do not have to think about 
it or to analyse the situation. In fact, if we do attempt to use our 
conscious thinking mind to figure out what is going on, doing so can 
exclude from our awareness important information provided by our 
emotional system. 
I have referred to these capacities previously somewhat 
metaphorically as 'right-brain' resources, and the previous chapter dealt 
in detail with how they can be accessed. They are particularly important 
for enabling a thinker to give attention to the Process Quadrant and to 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
372 
 
find ways to identify and incorporate relevant patterns and processes 
into their models. 
The Process thought forms help scaffold this capacity in the 
thinker. They draw the thinker's attention to the need to consider Process 
aspects of complex phenomena that cannot be adequately represented by 
analytical/rational thinking. 
But more importantly, they identify particular patterns that often 
need to be taken into account if processes are to be modelled effectively. 
These are patterns that have been found to be prominent in many 
complex phenomena, and that often need to be represented in thinking if 
the phenomena are to be understood and manipulated successfully. 
I will consider here the use of the three most significant and 
commonly-used Process thought forms: TF#1, TF#2 and TF#6. 
TF#1 reminds the thinker that reality is characterised by 
unceasing movement. From this broader perspective, there is no such 
thing as an object that retains its identity indefinitely. Even a mountain 
range is not an object or thing. It is a process that comes into existence, 
undergoes constant modification, and eventually disappears.  
Nor is a human a being that possesses fixed characteristics that 
are unchanging. Rather, a human is a process that is continually and 
incessantly changing and adapting. 
Process TF#1 also alerts the thinker to the need to include in 
their models the features that propel this unceasing movement. It 
reminds the thinker that there is often 'an absence' in a process or 
system that drives this incessant change. 
For example, cognitive development in humans is a process that 
tends to proceed throughout the life of individuals. As I have outlined in 
this book, it moves through a sequence of stages, potentially without 
end. At every step, this developmental process is propelled upwards by 
the existence of deficiencies (absences) in the cognitive capacity that 
operates at that level. Whatever the level, challenges are encountered 
that are unable to be resolved by existing cognitive capacities. To some 
extent, these absences will be overcome by the next step in the 
developmental process. However, some absences will still remain, and 
they will drive the developmental process onwards and upwards.  

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
373 
 
A further example of the important role of absences in driving 
change is in economic markets. The absence of products that meet a 
particular consumer demand will incentivize the development of new 
products that do so. In a sense, the absence will 'call them into 
existence'. 
Process TF#2 identifies a very common pattern that drives 
ceaseless change in many processes and systems. It alerts the thinker to 
the need to look for this pattern when attempting to build models of 
complex phenomena and to incorporate the pattern into their models as 
appropriate. 
This pattern was one of the first to be explicated in detail by 
earlier dialectical thinkers such as the German philosopher Hegel. It is 
based on the observation that, for example, when considering historical 
change within a society, changes will often emerge that are amplified 
because they meet the needs of some particular interests within the 
society. This is referred to as a 'thesis' in Hegelian dialectics. Very 
often, this emergence will evoke a counter-movement, the 'antithesis'. 
The counter-movement will often be driven by the fact that the initial 
movement acts against the interests of others in the society. 
The conflict that results between the thesis and the antithesis will 
often be resolved by the emergence of a 'synthesis'. Within societies, 
this will often be produced by a governmental/management intervention 
that settles the conflict. 
However, this process of change will not end there. The 
synthesis will never resolve all the relevant issues, and certainly not to 
the satisfaction of all members of society as circumstances continue to 
change. The synthesis will likely become a new thesis that evokes a 
further antithesis, and so on, producing the ceaseless change identified 
by the Process Quadrant. 
Once a thinker amends their thinking strategies to include TF#2, 
they will start to see examples of this pattern everywhere. We have 
already discussed how psychological development tends to be propelled 
by absences in capacities that manifest in one form or another at every 
level. As well as exemplifying TF#1 and the power of absences, these 
developmental processes also provide clear examples of the dialectical 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
374 
 
process of change identified by TF#2: the inability to deal with a 
challenge at a particular level tends to evoke further attempts to do so. If 
these are unsuccessful, a higher-level self may be evoked to provide a 
synthesis. And so on. This book provides many examples from my life 
where the operation of dialectical dynamics has propelled my 
psychological development in this way. 
Political events in human societies and throughout human history 
provide abundant examples of this dynamic pattern. 
Management/governance often provides the synthesis in specific 
instances. Economic phenomena and the functioning of corporations 
offer many more instances of this pattern. 
The evolution of life on Earth also provides numerous examples. 
These include the emergence and operation of hierarchies of 
physiological and other regulatory systems within organisms; the 
emergence of new levels of management that suppress competition and 
increase integration by providing a new, higher-level 'synthesis'; and so 
on. As was the case with the Context Quadrant, Evolutionary 
Management Theory exemplifies the use of this and other Process 
thought forms. 
Process TF#6 draws the thinker's attention to specific ways in 
which analytical/rational thinking fails to adequately represent processes 
that are ceaselessly changing. In particular, it critiques the propensity of 
analytical/rational thinking to reify phenomena that are, in fact, 
processes. Reification is the act of thinking of a form that is constantly 
changing as a thing or object that has fixed attributes. It fails to 
recognise that whatever exists is not a thing, it is a form that is 
characterised by unceasing change.  
Using this thought form scaffolds the analytical/rational thinker 
to critique their own thinking and to see where it is limited and unable to 
adequately model complex dynamic reality. It alerts the thinker to the 
need to search for and practice the use of thought forms that are not 
handicapped by these limitations. 
The third category of phenomena that tends to be left out of the 
models of analytical/rational thinkers is the Relationship Quadrant. In 
contrast to the Context Quadrant which deals with vertical relationships 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
375 
 
between entities and the context in which they are embedded, the 
Relationship Quadrant draws the attention of the thinker to horizontal 
relationships. 
In particular, this Quadrant alerts the thinker to the need to 
recognize that the behaviour of entities/parts within a system cannot be 
understood without taking into account their relationships with other 
parts of the system. The Quadrant reminds the thinker that reductionism 
that treats differentiated parts in isolation from other parts will tend to 
fail to understand the system of relationships that constitute the whole. 
For example, it is impossible to understand the functioning of the 
liver within our bodies without taking into account its relationship with 
other organs and processes, and without understanding how these 
relationships combine to constitute our body as an organised system that 
functions coherently. 
Analytical/rational thinking is unable to represent these kinds of 
phenomena effectively in its models for several reasons. First, the 
entities that are involved in the relationships are, in fact, processes. They 
are ceaselessly changing. Consequently, they cannot be defined 
precisely, and any definition that might apply at a particular point in 
time will not continue to apply as the entities change incessantly. 
Furthermore, the potential to represent these relationships in 
analysable models is impeded by their quantity and complexity.  In any 
complex system, the number and diversity of evolving relationships that 
need to be included in a model are too numerous to be thought through 
in a step-by-step fashion. 
Just as it did in relation to Context, analytical/rational thinking 
tries to cope with this unanalysable complexity by ignoring it. It tends to 
treat entities/processes in isolation, leaving out both the vertical and 
horizontal relationships in which they participate. But this works only 
for those limited parts of reality that can be approximated by 
analytical/rational models that ignore these relationships. 
Analysability is further impeded by the fact that sequences of 
relationships within systems often feed back upon themselves, 
constituting circular causality that cannot be thought through. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
376 
 
But an even more significant limitation arises because 
relationships, including collective relationships, often coevolve. Within 
a typical complex system, processes/entities that participate in 
relationships tend to adapt to the behaviour of other processes/entities, 
and these adapt to those changes, and so on, endlessly. These coevolving 
processes/entities cannot be effectively represented by mechanistic, 
reductionist models constituted by linear chains of causality that can be 
analysed and thought through. 
Within this context, Relationship TF#15 alerts the thinker to the 
need to consider whether the processes that are being investigated are 
part of an encompassing whole. Where they are, the thought form draws 
attention to what is lost if the processes are treated as isolated entities, 
ignoring their participation in relationships that help to constitute the 
whole. 
This thought form is a useful guide for the thinker who is 
attempting to understand and model differentiated, coevolving processes 
that constitute larger systems. These include processes within societies, 
economic systems, political systems, governmental and managed 
systems, corporations, organisms, animal societies, ecosystems, and so 
on. 
TF#15 draws the attention of the thinker to the fact that the 
relationships between the processes/entities that constitute a complex 
system have co-evolved in order to serve the functionality of the system 
as a whole. The nature of the entities and their behaviour can only be 
understood properly in the context of these co-evolved relationships and 
the larger functions that they serve. 
TF#21 draws the attention of thinkers to the frequent need to 
include in their mental models the patterns of interaction between 
entities that constitute relationships. Of particular importance for this 
thought form is the identification of reciprocal interactions and how 
these patterns of interaction may change over time. However, it focuses 
more on the external interactions between processes/entities, rather than 
on how patterns of interaction may change the entities themselves as 
they co-evolve. 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
377 
 
The nature of the patterns of interaction between the components 
of a complex, dynamical system is critically important for understanding 
its functioning as a whole. We have discussed earlier how the Context 
provided by the system for its constituents can manage/govern/constrain 
these patterns of interaction in ways that serve the system's functioning. 
However, the significance of this thought form is not just for 
building models of systems that are organised into complex, functioning 
wholes by management/governance. It is also important for building 
models of simpler, unmanaged systems that nonetheless have the 
capacity to be self-producing. 
Unmanaged systems can be self-producing where they are 
constituted by mutually-reinforcing relationships. 
We discussed earlier in the book the example of collectively-
autocatalytic sets of molecules. The ability of such a set to reproduce 
itself collectively though time results from the fact that the formation of 
every member of the set is catalysed by at least one other member of the 
set. 
Reciprocal altruism is an example at the human level: alliances 
are maintained and reproduced because actions that help other members 
of the alliance tend to be reciprocated. A further example is the systems 
of exchange relations that produce and reproduce economic markets. 
The same kinds of reciprocal relationships can also produce and 
reproduce organisations of corporations and organisations of Nations. 
Whenever a new level of organisation has begun to emerge 
during the evolution of life on earth, it has commenced with the 
emergence of these kinds of unmanaged, self-producing systems. They 
are characterised by mutually-reinforcing, non-hierarchical relationships 
between the processes/entities that constitute them. Of course, as we 
have seen, the emergence of management (a new form of context) can 
greatly expand the evolvability of these previously unmanaged 
organisations, enabling them to evolve interrelationships that are far 
more complex in their service of the interests of the whole. 
The fourth and final category of phenomena that cannot be 
effectively modelled by analytical/rational cognition is the 'Systems-in-
Transformation' Quadrant. Broadly, this Quadrant integrates the 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
378 
 
Context, Process, and Relationship Quadrants to model complex 
phenomena as they evolve and transform over time. 
For each of the other Quadrants, we have described the particular 
aspects of complex phenomena that they point to. The Quadrants 
identify what the analytical/rational thinker must move their attention to 
if they are to build useful models. We have shown how the thought 
forms for each Quadrant alert the thinker to what is left out by 
analytical/rational thinking and what must now be included. We will 
now do the same for the Systems-in-Transformation Quadrant. 
As emphasised earlier, each of the first three Quadrants is partial. 
Each covers only particular aspects of evolving complex phenomena. By 
themselves, they do not identify what needs to be encompassed by 
metasystemic cognition. Only when they are all considered together can 
they fully describe what must be represented in your models if they are 
to represent complex reality. This integration is not simple: the 
Quadrants must be combined dynamically. 
The Systems-in-Transformation Quadrant moves the attention of 
the thinker to the whole. The other Quadrants refer only to aspects of 
these wholes. 
Successful use of this Quadrant is critically important when 
thinkers are using their models to develop strategies designed to 
intervene in and manipulate complex reality in pursuit of human goals. 
If intelligent individuals want to strategize about how to achieve their 
goals, they must be informed by models that capture all relevant 
dynamics, including those that arise from human agency. Their models 
must include all relevant aspects of metasystemic reality as it evolves 
through time. The thinker must put together a multi-level, dynamically-
evolving 'big picture'. 
An example that is critical to human survival is the pressing need 
to develop effective strategies for overcoming human-induced climate 
change. For this, it is essential that we can build dynamic, multi-level, 
global models that capture all causally-relevant processes and systems, 
including possible human actions and their consequences. 
The Systems-in-Transformation Quadrant and its thought forms 
are essential for scaffolding the kinds of thinking that can model human 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
379 
 
agency in the world and identify how it can be enhanced to achieve 
particular goals. 
We will consider two important thought forms in the Systems-in-
Transformation Quadrant. The first is TF#23. It draws attention to a 
dynamic pattern that often needs to be included in models of complex 
phenomena if those models are to be effective and useful. This dynamic 
pattern points to the role of conflict in driving and resolving beneficial 
evolutionary and developmental change at the metasystemic level. 
This book provides many examples of how this pattern operates 
in the development of individuals and in the evolution of life more 
generally. As is particularly clear in retrospect, the narrative of my own 
cognitive development identifies many instances in which my 
developmental progress would have stalled if it were not for traumas, 
setbacks, and conflicts. 
My life is not unusual in this respect. This pattern is widely 
recognised in general theories of human development. 
A further example is the competition and conflict that produce 
the natural selection that drives the continual transformation and 
evolution of living systems. Somewhat paradoxically, it is competition 
that propels the evolutionary trajectory toward increasing cooperation 
and evolvability. Effective cooperation is favoured by natural selection 
because it out-competes systems that are not cooperative. Without 
competition, the trend toward increasing integration and cooperation 
would not exist. Anything and everything would survive. 
It is important to recognise that TF#23 is the equivalent at the 
metasystemic level of Process TF#2. TF#2 draws attention to the thesis-
antithesis-synthesis pattern that is common at the process level. At the 
systems level, conflict between systems is often resolved by the 
emergence of a new level of management/governance/constraint that 
integrates the systems, producing the synthesis. 
A current example is the conflict between nation-states that is 
driving environmental degradation and the possibility of nuclear 
annihilation. TF#23 draws the attention of the thinker to the tendency of 
this conflict to 'call forth' a synthesis that will resolve it. As was 
previously the case for conflicts at lower levels, this synthesis is likely to 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
380 
 
entail the emergence of a new level of governance, but this time at the 
global level. 
TF#25 draws the attention of the thinker to the usefulness of 
being able to compare models of different dynamical, transforming 
systems. The use of this thought form requires the thinker to hold the 
systems side-by-side in mental space, enabling the systems to be 
compared and evaluated. This evaluation enables the thinker to compare, 
for example, the effectiveness of the systems, their usefulness, their 
stability, and their adaptability. 
This thought form is particularly relevant when a thinker is 
attempting to model the evolution of complex living systems. For 
example, the thinker might be attempting to predict which forms of 
cooperative organisation will be competitively superior. A thinker who 
is able to use this thought form will be able to evaluate, for example, the 
extent to which particular managed organisations will outcompete 
unmanaged organisations, and to identify which particular management 
architectures are likely to be favoured by evolutionary competition. 
TF#25 is also highly relevant in the design of human 
organisations of all kinds, from businesses, to corporations, to 
educational institutions, to governments, to societies, to nation-states, 
and eventually, to the building of a unified, cooperative, and highly-
evolvable global entity. The ability to hold alternative systems side-by-
side in mental space is essential for identifying the forms of organisation 
that will be most effective at achieving particular goals. 
*    *    * 
Of course, reading and understanding these descriptions of the 
Quadrants and thought forms will not itself enable you to be a 
metasystemic thinker. Nor will studying and understanding Otto Laske's 
Manual of Dialectical Thought Forms. 
This is because the development of a capacity to actually build 
models requires the acquisition of particular mental skills. The 
Quadrants and thought forms help to identify these skills. But 
declarative knowledge alone about them will not install the relevant 
mental skills in you. This is the case with all procedural skills, like a golf 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
381 
 
swing, riding a bicycle, driving a car, and so on (not to mention a tennis 
serve, again). 
Furthermore, it is not sufficient to understand in depth the 
limitations of analytical/rational thinking. It is relatively easy to 
understand the Thought Form Framework as a strong critique of 
mainstream science and of the linear, logical thinking that underpins it. 
But it is not enough.  
This is demonstrated by postmodernism's failures. It is extremely 
effective at critiquing analytical/rational thinking and its products. But it 
has failed almost completely to develop a new, higher level of cognition 
that can succeed where analytical/rational thinking falls short. 
Postmodernism (and the Green level in the framework of Spiral 
Dynamics) has not produced effective models of complex reality. It has 
not generated a new kind of science. Yes, it has developed an antithesis 
to analytical/rational thinking. However, it has not provided a new 
synthesis. Postmodernism has not generated a new level of cognition 
that is capable of understanding dynamic, complex phenomena. 
Until you have developed a capacity to model complex reality, 
you have not achieved the higher levels of cognition that are the central 
focus of this book. 
This is where the really hard work begins. The only way to 
develop the model-building skills identified by the Quadrants and 
thought forms is to practice them in building models. You will need to 
do so persistently and indefatigably until the soles of your feet and your 
fingernails all sweat. 
Furthermore, the fact that the skills can never be specified 
precisely in words or in other forms of declarative knowledge, creates 
additional challenges. As is the case with building dis-embedding skills, 
overcoming these challenges demands serious experimentation and play 
using the thought forms. 
This experimentation is essential. You will not know in detail 
beforehand the specific nature of the skills that you need to acquire. But 
if you are able to identify the particular outcome that each skill is 
intended to achieve, you will be able to develop it eventually, even if 
your experimentation relies mainly on trial-and-error. The feedback you 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
382 
 
obtain from this experimentation will guide your development of the 
requisite skills. Eventually, you will be able to develop a set of skills that 
enable effective mental modelling of complexity. 
Fortunately, it is easier to test whether your experimentation with 
the use of thought forms is proceeding successfully than it is for the 
development of dis-embedding and associated skills. Whether particular 
model-building skills are effective can be evaluated by assessing 
whether they are able to build models that can make accurate 
predictions. 
Although studying the Quadrants and thought forms will not, by 
itself, produce metasystemic cognition, the development of the Thought 
Form Framework was a major step forward in humanity's development 
of metasystemic cognition. Knowledge about the thought forms will not 
install the thought processes that produce metasystemic cognition. 
However, it will prove invaluable in helping individuals identify what 
they need to include in their mental models if they are to represent 
complex phenomena adequately. This guidance will then enable them to 
practice the mental skills that are necessary if they are to include what 
the Quadrants and thought forms are pointing to. 
Using the Thought Form Framework will enable you to scaffold 
mental processes that overcome the limitations of analytical/rational 
thinking and to build mental models of dynamic, complex phenomena. 
The persistent practice of using the Quadrants and thought forms, aided 
by the dis-embedding practices, will eventually enable you to develop 
metasystemic cognition. 
Broadly, the steps that you need to take to develop metasystemic 
cognition are: use the Quadrants and thought forms to guide your 
building of specific models; test your models against their ability to 
predict how particular complex phenomena unfold; identify where the 
predictions of your initial models failed; draw on the Thought Form 
Framework to identify why they failed; correct your models; draw again 
on the Thought Form Framework as necessary to identify where the 
meta-models that you used to generate your original models failed; 
amend your meta-models appropriately; test the amended models and 
meta-models; do this repeatedly and recursively, and so on, and so on. 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
383 
 
The first step in this developmental process is to choose a 
complex phenomenon that you are highly motivated to explore. Ideally, 
this will involve complex systems in which you are embedded that are 
currently not producing the outcomes that you desire. These 
circumstances will incentivize you to build models that help you achieve 
outcomes that are more aligned with your goals. 
This complex challenge may, for example, involve issues arising 
in your family or other close relationships; or in the organisation in 
which you work; or in the complex, evolving environments in which 
your work organisation is embedded; or in political systems in which 
you are involved; or in a complex sport that you play or that interests 
you, or in your hobbies; etc. 
The next step in this scaffolding process is to refrain from 
researching the models, knowledge, and thinking that experts and others 
have used to strategize about similar complex challenges. Such research 
might assist you in developing effective models rapidly. But it will not 
assist you to develop metasystemic cognition. To do so, you need to 
practice using the Quadrants and thought forms to build your own 
models. Short-circuiting this process by adapting the models of others, 
in whole or in part, will impede your development of metasystemic 
cognition. 
Instead, you should build your own models of the relevant 
complex phenomena from first principles, from the ground up, without 
reference to any existing body of knowledge. 
It is critically important to be aware of the thought processes that 
you use as you construct your models. This is essential because later in 
the process, you will need to be able to remember the thought processes 
that you used, examine them and their effects, identify those that were 
sub-optimal and that led to failures in the model you developed, modify 
them as necessary, and thereby produce improved models and meta-
models. 
Consequently, you should embark on the model-building process 
consciously and deliberately. Ensure that you are as aware as possible of 
each step you take in your thinking. At first, this may prove to be 
extremely challenging. Initially, you may find it difficult to build the 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
384 
 
model consciously. You may have a very limited ability to be aware of 
each step that you take and to remember it. But as you practice building 
models from first principles, and as your dis-embedding practice helps to 
enhance your capacity to see your thinking as object, it will become 
easier and more fluid. 
You should draw on the Quadrants and thought forms as you 
build your models from first principles. You may find it useful to begin 
by using the Quadrants to undertake an initial, broad assessment of what 
you need to give attention to in order to overcome the deficiencies in 
analytical/rational thinking. 
At first, as you begin to familiarize yourself with the thought 
forms, you might find that you need to use them a bit like a look-up 
table. But as you practice and persevere with model building, you will 
find that your need to consult written materials about the thought forms 
will diminish. The need for detailed scaffolding will tend to fall away. 
It is worth emphasising here that not all thought forms need to be 
used to build a mental model of a particular, complex phenomenon. This 
is because the purpose of model building is not to build a model that 
accurately reflects everything about a phenomenon as it unfolds through 
time. The only model that can include everything that comprises some 
part of reality is that part of reality itself. Such a complete model will not 
help you to understand that part of reality if you cannot understand it 
already. A useful map never describes everything in the territory it 
attempts to represent. 
As mentioned earlier, the purpose of model building is to 
develop a model that is as simple as possible to achieve the goals of the 
modelling project. But not more simple. A model should therefore only 
use those thought forms that are necessary to enable it to predict 
accurately those things about a phenomenon that are of interest to the 
modeller. 
Often, this means that particular thought forms are not relevant. 
This is obviously the case, for example, when the phenomena in 
question can be modelled adequately for the purposes of the modeller by 
a mechanistic, reductionist, analytical/rational model. Where it is useful, 
a simple analytical/rational model is sufficient. It is not valid to criticize 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
385 
 
a particular model just because it is an analytical/rational model and 
therefore leaves out much of the phenomena in question. 
You can develop the skills needed to apply the thought forms by 
undertaking practices that accelerate the internalization of the thought 
forms and that train the mental skills that they point to. 
The most significant of these practices requires you to visualize 
the patterns that each Quadrant and Thought Form identifies and that 
you may need to include in the models you are constructing. In 
particular, you should develop mental images that represent each of the 
patterns that are referred to by each Quadrant and Thought Form. Often, 
these visualizations will need to be dynamic, capturing the fact that most 
of the thought forms are pointing to patterns that are changing 
continuously. 
Once you develop an appropriate dynamic image(s) that reflects 
a particular thought form, you should then practice identifying this 
image in complex phenomena that you encounter regularly in the world 
around you. 
If you do this persistently and successfully, you will soon find 
that many of the thought forms point to patterns that are extremely 
common. You may find this surprising because you have never noticed 
them before. In large part, this is because many of the thought forms 
point to dynamic patterns that are not concrete. Largely, they are 
abstractions from concrete reality. Consequently, they are not directly 
observable in the world.  
For example, the common thesis-antithesis-synthesis pattern 
cannot be directly observed in concrete reality. In order to 'see' this 
pattern, you need to be able to imagine the processes and relationships 
that produce the relevant concrete aspects of reality that you can observe 
directly. 
You can understand and 'see' the reality and significance of 
these patterns only once you have developed mental models that include 
them. Visualizing the relevant dynamical patterns and actively seeking 
to observe them in real-world phenomena assists significantly in 
developing this capacity. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
386 
 
This visualization of the Quadrants and thought forms can also 
assist you to avoid a common trap encountered by analytical/rational 
thinkers when they attempt to build models of complex phenomena. 
When they use the Quadrants and thought forms to identify what is left 
out by their current thinking, and when they give attention to including 
representations of this in their models, they have a strong propensity to 
use analytical/rational thinking to do so. 
Consequently, when they attempt to represent aspects of Context, 
Process, and Relationship in their models, they will build 
analytical/rational representations of them. They will tend to attempt to 
construct reductionist, mechanistic, and analysable representations of 
these aspects. They will re-embed in analytical/rational thinking. 
This will not produce useful models of complex dynamical 
systems as they evolve and transform through time. To develop such 
models, the thinker needs to maintain dis-embeddedness from 
analytical/rational thinking as they go about building their metasystemic 
models. 
This does not mean that you should refrain from using 
analytical/rational thinking at all. As for all vertical development, 
metasystemic cognition transcends lower levels of cognition, but also 
includes them. Metasystemic thinkers continue to use analytical/rational 
thinking, but only by choice, where it is effective. They always use it 
within the wider context of metasystemic cognition. Their higher 
cognition manages the lower levels of thinking and integrates them into 
metasystemic cognition. 
Furthermore, the mental skills associated with analytical/rational 
cognition must first be mastered before they can be transcended and 
included in the development of metasystemic cognition. 
This is a particular difficulty for many individuals who are at the 
Postmodern or Green stage. I am referring here to individuals who have 
embraced a strong critique of analytical/rational thinking without having 
first mastered analytical/rational thinking. They tend to be cognitive-
light, right-brain dominant rather than left-brain. Under the Myers-
Briggs classification system, they tend to be 'feeling' rather than 
'thinking' orientated. They will not be able to develop metasystemic 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
387 
 
cognition without first having gone back to master analytical/rational 
cognition. 
Visualizing the dynamic patterns identified by the Quadrants and 
thought forms will assist the developing thinker to avoid the trap of 
falling back into analytical/rational thinking. By focusing on patterns 
rather than on analytical representations, this approach tends to engage 
right-brain resources. Visualization and pattern recognition are 
predominantly right-brain capacities. Accessing these right-brain 
resources will assist you to dis-embed from the dominance of analytical, 
left-brain thinking, and help maintain this dis-embeddedness. 
This will be further assisted by the practice of searching 
systematically for instances of particular thought forms in the complex 
circumstances and challenges that you encounter. As well as entrenching 
the visualized patterns in your mind, this practice will change and adapt 
the visualizations, and make them more useful to you. If done 
persistently, this practice will significantly enhance your development of 
metasystemic cognition. 
When practicing the use of the Quadrants and thought forms in 
model building, it is also useful to remember that no list of thought 
forms, including the list in Otto Laske's Manual of Thought Forms, 
covers all useful possibilities. When attempting to build models of 
complex phenomena, always be on the lookout for dynamical patterns 
that can be included usefully in the models, but that are not covered by 
the existing lists of thought forms. 
I have found that scientific approaches to understanding complex 
phenomena have identified some useful patterns that are not included in 
the Manual of Thought Forms. These include patterns identified by 
fields such as cybernetics, general systems theory, and the science of 
complex adaptive systems. 
This is understandable, given that existing attempts to identify 
relevant thought forms have all originated in the humanities. The need 
for metasystemic cognition has been greatest in fields covered by the 
humanities. The humanities were unable to follow the lead of 
mainstream science and avoid complexity. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
388 
 
Although mainstream science has had little success in developing 
a science of evolving complexity, research at the fringes of science has 
made some limited progress. I incorporated some of the key patterns 
identified by this research in my discussion of the Quadrants and thought 
forms earlier in this chapter. 
In summary, existing attempts to identify relevant thought forms 
should not be taken as complete. As you practice the development of 
metasystemic cognition, always be on the lookout for new patterns that 
can be usefully included in your model building. This is particularly the 
case if your interest is in modelling complex phenomena that are 
different from those investigated by the originators of particular 
formulations of the Quadrants and thought forms. 
It is also important to keep in mind that the goal of these 
practices for developing metasystemic cognition is to become self-
scaffolding. This necessitates becoming less and less reliant on external 
scaffolds such as declarative descriptions of the Quadrants and thought 
forms. Your objective should be to develop whatever capacities and 
knowledge you need to become self-scaffolding. 
The conscious pursuit of this goal is particularly necessary if you 
are being assisted in your development of metasystemic cognition by a 
cognitive coach. Initially, the coach will help to scaffold your cognitive 
development by drawing your attention to what is missing from your 
current thinking and model building. The coach will go on to draw your 
attention to the thought forms that identify what you will need to include 
in your model building in order to correct the absences and deficiencies. 
A good coach will use what Otto Laske refers to as 'mind 
openers' to move your attention to what is missing and what needs to be 
included. Laske emphasises that the Quadrants and thought forms are 
powerful tools for challenging and opening minds. When particular 
thought forms are missing from a thinker's model building, coaches can 
use their knowledge of the thought forms to generate questions for the 
thinker that will move their attention to what is absent and should be 
included. These questions are 'mind openers'. 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
389 
 
We will consider examples of mind openers for several of the 
thought forms I discussed earlier. I will consider one from each 
Quadrant: 
For Context TF#8, a mind-opening question for a thinker might 
be: "To what extent might changing the context/'bigger picture' in 
which the individual in question is embedded change the individual's 
behaviour? What kind of changes in the context might produce the 
behavioural changes that you are pursuing?" 
An example for Process TF#2 that might be relevant to a 
particular thinker is: "Is there a countertendency that is arising in 
relation to the emerging tendency that you have referred to? What kinds 
of processes may emerge that might resolve these conflicting 
tendencies?" 
For Relationship TF#15, an example might be: "What will you 
miss if you consider each of these processes/entities in isolation? What 
new insights might you have if you begin to see the relationships 
between them and the coevolution of these relationships? To what extent 
is the nature of these relationships understandable when you consider the 
possibility that the processes/entities are embedded in a larger whole?" 
For Systems-in-Transformation TF#23, a mind-opening question 
asked of a thinker might be: "Could this conflict that you are 
experiencing eventually have positive impacts? What processes might 
produce this?" 
The effective use of mind-opening questions will scaffold the 
thinker to identify and examine instances in which their thinking has 
failed to include dynamic patterns identified by the thought forms. The 
coach can further scaffold the ability of thinkers to include these patterns 
in their model building by leading the thinker to use the kinds of 
practices I have identified earlier. These include visualizing the thought 
forms as dynamic patterns, and actively looking for instances of the 
existence of these patterns in complex phenomena that they encounter. 
However, if you are being coached, it is important to keep 
foremost in mind that your goal is to develop the capacities needed for 
self-scaffolding as soon as possible. This will help put you firmly on the 
path to recursively self-improving your own cognition indefinitely. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
390 
 
In an important sense, this involves internalising in your own 
mind the coaching process that I have outlined. Rather than the coach 
examining your existing thought processes from the outside and 
identifying their limitations, you should work on developing the capacity 
to do this yourself. This will entail replacing external scaffolding with 
internal scaffolding. 
As I emphasised earlier, to achieve this capacity in full, you will 
need to develop the ability to see your own thinking and feeling as 
object. This will scaffold the emergence of a higher self that then needs 
to be equipped with the ability to scaffold its own cognitive capacities.  
As I have outlined, this scaffolding of higher cognition can be 
facilitated by a number of practices. These include: The conscious and 
deliberate building of complex models from first principles; the use of 
the Quadrants and thought forms to assist this; visualizing the dynamic 
patterns that they identify; entrenching and habitualising their use; 
employing mind openers to move your own attention to where it is 
needed; and using the additional practices that I will identify next. 
Broadly, the goal should be analogous to what should be the 
ultimate goal of extended psychotherapy: to enable the subject of the 
therapy to apply to themselves the therapeutical tools used by the 
therapist. Achieved successfully, this will enable the subject to self-
scaffold their own therapeutic interventions indefinitely, as needed. 
Ideally, the goal of both the cognitive coach and the psycho-therapist 
should be to make themselves redundant as soon as possible. The subject 
should make every effort to assist them in achieving this goal. 
However, your first attempts to develop models of complex 
phenomena from first principles will likely be riddled with failures. 
Initially, you are also likely to find it challenging to build your models 
consciously and be aware of the thought processes you use to construct 
them. This is why effortful work on yourself is essential. 
But these challenges and failures will provide you with a good 
starting point for the next step in your recursive development of 
metasystemic cognition and beyond. 
Once you have done your best to develop a model from first 
principles, it is time to test your model against some of the existing 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
391 
 
knowledge about the phenomena in question. However, you will need to 
refrain from testing it against all existing relevant knowledge. 
The purpose of doing this is to begin to identify where your 
model is deficient. What does it leave out that needs to be included? 
What does it contain that should be included, but is inadequately 
represented? 
Using the Quadrants and thought forms as necessary, you will 
need to identify where your model is deficient. You need to assess how 
it should be amended in order to ensure that its predictions are now 
consistent with the elements of existing knowledge that you have tested 
it against. 
Of course, if you have done really well, you may find that your 
model makes some predictions that conflict with existing knowledge, 
but that this is not because your model is flawed. It is because your 
model is superior. For example, it may be evident that your model 
includes relevant elements that are missing from the models used to 
generate existing knowledge. As you develop your capacity for 
metasystemic modelling, this will occur with increasing frequency. 
But this step of testing your model against some existing 
knowledge and amending it as necessary is not the most important step 
in this process of self-scaffolding. 
You need to amend and modify not only the model you are 
developing. You also need to examine and amend your meta-models 
consciously. These are the models that you use to generate your models 
of complex dynamic phenomena. 
The importance of this step in the self-scaffolding process is that 
it enables you to develop not just a better model, but better cognitive 
strategies and skills for developing models of other complex 
phenomena. It enhances your capacity to build complex models in 
general, not just for the specific phenomenon that you are investigating 
as part of this practice. This is obviously of critical importance for your 
development of metasystemic cognition and beyond. 
The key meta mind-opening questions to ask yourself are: Why, 
in each specific instance in which the model failed, did your meta-
models fail to develop an effective model? How can your meta-models 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
392 
 
and associated meta-strategies be amended so that they will no longer 
make such a mistake? 
Again, you will need to draw on the Quadrants and thought 
forms in order to identify where your meta-strategies were deficient, and 
how they need to be amended. This may involve changing the 
visualizations that you use to envisage, detect, and represent particular 
dynamical patterns identified by the Quadrants and thought forms. 
Furthermore, as I have mentioned, from time to time it may be necessary 
to invent a new thought form that is better at capturing some aspect of a 
particular complex phenomenon you are attempting to model. 
It is important that you examine and evaluate the thought 
processes embodied in your meta-models consciously and deliberately. 
This is essential if you are to develop the capacity to see your meta-
thought processes as object, enabling you to evaluate them and amend 
them consciously. 
Eventually, once you have repeated this practice sufficiently, 
your construction of models and your implementation of them will occur 
in a flash, with very little conscious awareness of the relevant mental 
processes. This is the same with all skills, no matter how complex—
once they are fully learned and practiced, they tend to operate 
unconsciously with no need for deliberate, conscious involvement. 
Learning to drive a car is an example familiar to most—initially, full 
attention is needed, but eventually, a practiced driver can operate the 
vehicle effectively despite giving most of their attention to a 
conversation with a passenger. 
However, this does not mean that the significance of the phase in 
which meta-models are constructed and amended should be downplayed. 
This phase is of critical importance to the successful self-scaffolding of 
higher cognition. Provided that you have built, adjusted, and applied 
your meta-models consciously in the way I have suggested, you will 
have the capacity to resurface them into conscious awareness whenever 
the need arises. This will enable you to evaluate and amend them 
consciously. 
For example, when you find that a model of some complex 
phenomenon that you have developed fails in some respect, you will be 

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
393 
 
able to bring back into conscious awareness the thought processes that 
you used to generate the model. This will enable you to identify where 
the thought processes failed and how they need to be changed to 
overcome the deficiency. 
This will then enable you to give attention to a further important 
step. You will be able to identify whether any changes in your meta-
models necessitate changes in other models that were generated using 
the meta-models. Making any necessary amendments to these will 
provide you with practice in the use of the improved meta-models. This 
will help to entrench them. Before long, they will be able to function 
fluidly and largely automatically, with little conscious involvement. 
Once you have tested your models and meta-models against 
some of the relevant body of existing knowledge and amended them as 
necessary, you should repeat this process using more of the existing 
body of knowledge. This may include discussing your model and its 
implications with relevant friends, colleagues, and collaborators. 
When this further testing identifies an additional deficiency in 
your model, you will need to repeat the process of amending and 
refining both your model and meta-models, including using the meta-
models to identify the need to amend other models and the meta-models 
themselves. 
Then, you will need to repeat the process, again and again, until 
the model passes all tests that you can reasonably make. But, over the 
years, you will continually be open to finding incompatibilities between 
the model and any new evidence about the relevant complex 
phenomenon. 
You will actively look for any opportunity to test your models 
and meta-models and to obtain feedback about their effectiveness. As 
well as testing them against new evidence, you will take up any 
opportunity to discuss your meta-models and associated strategies with 
others who are attempting to consciously and recursively enhance their 
own cognitive development. Furthermore, you will read any book and 
consider any other resource that attempts to identify strategies for 
recursive self-improvement. 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
394 
 
You will celebrate whenever you discover that your model is 
deficient in its ability to predict how the relevant complex phenomenon 
will unfold. This is because you will have encountered a new 
opportunity to improve not just this model, but also the whole hierarchy 
of meta-models that were used to generate it. The discovery of 
deficiencies will enable you to take further steps upward in your 
cognitive development. 
As you improve your modelling capacity recursively in this way, 
you will find that you will be able to explain events that, from the 
perspective of analytical/rational thinking, appear to be entirely 
unrelated and separate. Increasingly, you will have the intellectually 
exhilarating experience of dots being joined, things falling into place, 
and events suddenly making sense in a much bigger scheme of things. 
*    *    * 
As humanity begins to transition to metasystemic cognition, 
more and more resources and external scaffolds will become available. 
These will assist individuals to become self-scaffolding and will support 
their acquisition of higher cognition. As I have mentioned earlier, this 
will generate a Second Enlightenment and a new kind of science. 
Our economic systems will turbocharge the spread of 
metasystemic cognition. Any corporations whose senior executives 
develop metasystemic cognition will have a major competitive 
advantage over corporations whose executives are at the 
analytical/rational level.  
A corporation powered by metasystemic cognition will be able to 
strategize more effectively when dealing with the complex, ever-
evolving systems in which it is embedded. It will be far superior at 
predicting and anticipating changes in its economic, political, customer, 
and competitive environments. It will see and adapt successfully to 
challenges that analytical/rational corporations are blind to. 
The ability of metasystemic cognition to produce overwhelming 
competitive advantages in economic markets will massively incentivize 
its acquisition and spread.  

 
How to Scaffold Metasystemic Cognition and Beyond 
 
 
395 
 
If you build a better mousetrap, the world will beat a path to your 
door. With little effort on the part of the inventor, the mousetrap will 
become widely available. Market forces will incentivize its production. 
However, if you develop methods to produce a higher level of 
cognition that enables the building of not just a better mousetrap but all 
kinds of new complex inventions, the world will beat your door down. 
Once the benefits of higher cognition become evident, a massive new 
industry directed at developing and spreading metasystemic cognition 
will emerge overnight. 
Of course, the spread of metasystemic cognition will inevitably 
subvert and irrevocably change the way capitalism operates currently. 
Increasingly, humanity will see that our societies and systems of 
governance will need to be reorganised. This is necessary to ensure that 
our economic, political, and other systems no longer self-organise 
environmental degradation and the threat of nuclear annihilation. 
The new system of global governance that emerges will 
fundamentally change the behaviour of corporations and other 
businesses: It will align their interests with those of humanity as a 
whole. Corporations and individuals may still be motivated by self-
interest, but the only way they will be able to satisfy their interests will 
be by benefitting humanity and the planet. 
However, long before the spread of metasystemic cognition 
reaches the critical mass needed to change society, it will begin to 
subvert our current dysfunctional economic and political systems. When 
senior executives in corporations and governments develop 
metasystemic cognition, their belief in the value of their work will be 
seriously undermined. Increasingly, they will see their work and their 
life in the context of a much larger picture. Eventually, they will 
understand and embrace the biggest picture of all, the evolutionary 
worldview. 
Within this bigger picture, their previous work and career will 
seem meaningless and trivial. They will see that, for example, becoming 
the CEO of an international corporation that makes and sells sugary 
drinks, is not a successful life in a wider evolutionary context. Nor is 
spending the money they earn from their work, no matter how much 

HUMAN SUPERINTELLIGENCE 
 
396 
 
they make. Such an existence amounts to little more than spending their 
life masturbating Stone Age desires. 
Those who develop metasystemic cognition will no longer 
believe in current life. They will dis-embed from the collective trance 
that dominates early 21st-century human existence. Although they may 
continue in their positions as senior executives of major corporations 
and pretend to pursue company goals, they will instead march to the beat 
of a different drummer—an evolutionary one. Propelled by their 
metasystemic awareness, they will become evolutionary activists. Their 
over-arching goal will be to do what they can to advance the 
evolutionary process on Earth. 
Of course, as an evolutionary activist myself, the purpose of this 
book is to advance evolution on Earth. The book is my conscious and 
intentional attempt to contribute to the actualization of the major 
evolutionary transitions that humanity must negotiate successfully if life 
on earth is to contribute positively to the future evolution of life in the 
Universe. 
Among these transitions, the priority is to develop metasystemic 
cognition and become self-evolving. Both of these are critically 
important enabling capacities. They will enable humanity to identify and 
implement pro-evolutionary strategies. At this perilous phase in our 
evolution, foremost amongst these is the imperative to establish a 
unified, cooperative, and highly-evolvable global entity.

 
 
 
397 
 
References 
Bejleri, E., Berberi, A., & Memaj, G., (2022). Decision Making in 
uncertainty and risky environment, Journal of Management 
Information and Decision Sciences, 25, 1-11. 
Blackstone, J., (2018). Trauma and the Unbound Body: The healing 
power of fundamental consciousness. Sounds True: Boulder, CO. 
Bostrom, N., (2003). Are you living in a computer simulation? 
Philosophical Quarterly 57, 243-255. 
--------- (2014). Superintelligence: Paths, dangers, strategies. Oxford 
University Press, Oxford. 
Kegan, R., (1982). The evolving self: problems and process in human 
development. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA. 
--------- (1994). In over our heads: The mental demands of modern life. 
Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA. 
Laske, Otto, (2017). A New Approach to Dialog: Teaching the 
Dialectical Thought Form Framework, Integral Leadership 
Review. 
--------- (2023). Advanced Systems-Level Problem Solving, Volume 3 - 
Manual of Dialectical Thought Forms, 2nd Edition. Springer 
Nature, Switzerland. 
McGilchrist, I., (2009). The Master and his Emissary: the divided brain 
and the making of the Western world. Yale University Press, 
New Haven and London. 
--------- (2021). The Matter with Things. Perspectiva Press. 
Metzinger, T., (2003) Being no one: the self-model theory of 
subjectivity. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA. 
Ouspensky, P. D., (1949). In Search of the Miraculous - Fragments of 
an Unknown Teaching. Harcourt Brace, New York. 
Roddam, M., (2014), The Program - The Development of Meta-
Systemic Cognition, Integral Leadership Review. 
Ross, S., (2009). Step into the Service and Challenge of Dialectical 
Thinking: A Brief Review of Otto Laske's Manual of Dialectical 
Thought Forms, Integral Leadership Review. 

References 
 
398 
 
Ruse, M., (1996). Monad to man - the concept of progress in 
evolutionary biology, Harvard University Press, Cambridge, 
MA. 
Stewart, John. E., (1993). The maintenance of sex, Evolutionary 
Theory, 10, 195-202. 
--------- (1995). Metaevolution, Journal of Social and Evolutionary 
Systems, 18, 113-114. 
--------- (1997a). The evolution of genetic cognition, Journal of Social 
and Evolutionary Systems, 20, 53-73. 
--------- (1997b). Evolutionary transitions and artificial life, Artificial 
Life 3, 101-120. 
--------- (1997c). Evolutionary Progress, Journal of Social and 
Evolutionary Systems, 20, 335-62. 
--------- (2000). Evolution's Arrow: the direction of evolution and the 
future of humanity. Chapman Press, Canberra. 
--------- (2001). Future psychological evolution, Journal of Dynamical 
Psychology. 
--------- (2007). The future evolution of consciousness, Journal of 
Consciousness Studies, 14, 58-92. 
--------- (2010). The meaning of life in a developing universe, 
Foundations of Science, 15, 395-409. 
-------- (2014). The direction of evolution: The rise of cooperative 
organisation, BioSystems, 123: 27-36. 
--------- (2016). Review of Dialectical Thinking for Integral Leaders: A 
Primer, by Otto Laske. Integral Leadership Review. 
--------- (2017). Enlightenment and the Evolution of the Material World. 
Spanda Journal, Vol VII, 1, 107-114. 
--------- (2018). Evolutionary Possibilities: Can a society be constrained 
so that 'The Good' self-organizes? World Futures 74, 1-35. 
--------- (2019a). The Origins of Life: The Managed-Metabolism 
Hypothesis, Foundations of Science, 24, 171-195. 
--------- (2019b). The Trajectory of Evolution and Its Implications for 
Humanity, Journal of Big History 3, 141 - 155. 
--------- (2020), Towards a general theory of the major cooperative 
evolutionary transitions, BioSystems, 198: 104237. 

 
References 
 
 
399 
 
--------- (2022). The Evolution and Development of Consciousness: The 
Subject-Object Emergence Hypothesis, Biosystems, 217: 
104687.

 
 
 
400 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
401 
 
Index 
A 
Adorno, Theodor, 220 
Advaita Vedanta, 190 
Allegory of the cave, 176 
Alzheimer's gene, 280 
Analytical/rational thinking 
limitations, 3, 24, 66, 215-20, 357-63 
slavery to, 25, 78, 325 
undermines religion, 260 
Anti-authority, 49-54, 68, 69 
need for control, 49 
Autistic tendencies, 72 
cognitive development, 286-90 
mates, 268 
Awakening, 26-28, 179-81 
from dreaming, 25, 331-32 
in ordinary life, 118, 183-92, 202, 331-
32 
Ormos practices, 201-4 
practices, 183-92, 326-54, See also 
Scaffolding Program 
B 
Barlow, Connie, 193 
Basseches, Michael, 220 
Bateson, Gregory, 94 
Beer, Stafford, 94, 254 
Bejleri, Emirjeta, 306, 397 
Blackstone, Judith, 347, 348, 349, 397 
Blavatsky, Helena, 53, 94 
Bostrom, Nick, 15, 303 
book, 397 
Bureaucratic organisation 
failings, 98 
general theory, 99 
Peter Principle, 99 
C 
Cairns Library, 57 
Causation, problem of, 312-17 
Cognition 
vertical differences, 244-46 
Complexity science, 76, 218, 219, 360 
Concrete mental modelling, 111 
Concrete operations thinking, 21-25, 22, 
23, 24, 25, 224, 225, 259 
slavery to, 23 
Conscious evolution, 7, 168, 172, 175, 252, 
256, 261, 264 
Consciousness, 158 
explanation, 238 
future evolution, 199 
Cooperation, evolution of 
advantages of cooperation, 108 
consequence capture, 244 
group selectionism, 129-39, 237 
how evolves, 128-34, See also 
Evolutionary Management Theory 
the cooperation barrier, 107-9 
D 
Darwin, Charles, 259 
Dawkins, Richard, 75, 92, 107 
de Chardin, Teilhard, 53, 92, 108, 128 
Declarative knowledge, 28, 213 
autism, 286-90 
Dis-embedding from thoughts and 
feelings, 2, 3, 27 
accessing intuition, 81, 183, 200, 327 
practices, 328-54 
Dowd, Michael, 193 

INDEX 
 
402 
 
E 
Emotional and behavioural predispositions 
freedom from, 3-5, 26, 88-91, 170, 
266, 327, See also  Scaffolding 
Program 
practices, 89-91, 328-54 
Entification, 250, 251-56 
Epiphany 
emotional, 151 
evolutionary, 197 
intellectual, 127 
Ethics and morals 
made redundant, 166-76 
Evolution 
a unified theory, 61, 92 
emergence of global entity, 6, 251-56 
evolvability increases, 6, 155-60 
integration and cooperation increases, 
6 
of sexual reproduction, 153 
trajectory, 5, 92, 237, 248-57 
trajectory, other planets, 256-64 
Evolution, Complexity and Cognition 
Research Group, 183 
Evolution's Arrow, 31, 165, 177, 181, 182, 
193, 194, 196, 197, 398 
Evolutionary Enlightenment, 265 
Evolutionary Management Theory, 127-
51, 237, See also Global Governance 
consequence capture, 129, 244 
external management, 134 
group selectionism, 237 
internal management (DLLM), 146 
power, 142 
Evolutionary Manifesto, 198 
Evolutionary Salon, 194, 196 
Evolutionary self-remembering, 354 
Evolutionary worldview, 8, 247-66, 395 
Evolvability, evolution of, 155-60, 170 
major transition, 171 
Existential questions, 57, 93, 166, 292 
answers, 293-311 
rational strategies, 294-95 
Existential threats, 173, 214 
F 
Fellini, Federico, 179, 350 
First Enlightenment thinking. See 
Analytical/rational thinking 
Fishing lure, 110 
Formal operations, 259 
G 
Gebser, Jean, 210 
Genetic, cultural and conditioned 
predispositions 
freedom from, 5, 8, 26, 73, 173, 230, 
264 
Global entity/society, 6-8, 197, See also 
Global Governance 
emergence, 251-56 
the role of higher cognition, 8 
the role of humanity, 7 
Global Governance, 240, 251-56 
need for constraints, 240-46 
Greer, Germaine, 60 
Group selection, 129-39 
Gurdjieff, George, 5, 38, 81, 114, 180, 209, 
274, 337, 348, 351 
H 
Hegel, Georg, 373 
Heidegger, Martin, 53, 94 
Heylighen, Francis, 182 
Hume, David, 312, 313, 314, 315 
I 
Induction, problem of, 312-17 
Intelligence 
meaning, 15 
Intentional evolution. See Conscious 
evolution 

INDEX 
 
403 
 
International Women's Year Secretariat, 
60 
Invisible hand, 244 
J 
Joyce, James, 42, 288, 289 
K 
Kegan, Robert, 4, 325, 369 
book, 397 
Ketogenic diet, 280 
Kierkegaard, Soren, 301 
Kilmer, Joyce, 179 
L 
Laske, Otto, 2, 326, 361 
Manual of Dialectical Thought Forms, 2, 
214, 361-80, 362, 397 
Left and right brain integration, 28, 339 
Left-hand path, 115, 210 
M 
Maharshi, Ramana, 353 
Major evolutionary transitions, 129, 138, 
257, See Evolutionary Management 
Theory 
Management/governance. See 
Evolutionary Management Theory 
Marx, Karl, 198 
Mathematical modelling, 65 
limitations, 63 
Maya, 176 
McGilchrist, Iain, 339, 397 
McKenna, Terrence, 275 
McLuhan, Marshall, 175 
Meditation, 114, 117 
concentration, 117 
how works, 200 
lake freezing over, 117, 345 
mindfullness, 117 
practices, 328-54 
Metasystemic cognition, 29 
autism, 288 
evolutionary significance, 29, 260, 264 
intentional spread, 222-26 
intuitive development, 78-81 
overview of scaffloding, 324-28 
practices. See also  Scaffolding Program 
role of emotions, 191 
scaffolding, 213-24 
scaffolding thinking, 356-94 
Meta-thinking, 1, 2, 42, 45, 345 
Metzinger, Thomas, 205, 206, 397 
Modern Evolutionary Synthesis, 63 
exclusion of directionality, 63-66 
Monk, unflinching, 211, 309 
Morris, Desmond, 58 
Movements in thought, 2-3, 215, See also 
Thought forms 
N 
Naturalistic fallacy, 173-75 
Nietzsche, Friedrich, 94, 172 
Noah's Ark, 209 
Non-dual awakening, 204-12 
O 
Origins of life, 140-44, 237, 256 
Ormos, Kleo, 201 
Ostrom, Elinor, 106-7 
Ouspensky, Pyotr, 5, 189, 397 
P 
Pascal, Blaise, 309 
Phenomenal Model of the Intentionality 
Relation, 205 
Phenomenal Model of the Self, 205 
Philosophy of Science, 312-17 
Piaget, Jean, 301 
Plato, 176 
Polanyi, Michael, 28 

INDEX 
 
404 
 
Popper, Karl, 53, 54, 175, 313, 314 
Possert, Bernhard, 235 
Practices 
anxiety, 271 
building higher self, 326-54 
depression, 281 
dis-embedding, 328-54 
drug withdrawal, 271 
maladaptive behaviours, 89-91 
meditation, 114, 328-54 
scaffolding Metasystemic Cognition, 
356-94 
Scaffolding Program, 229-36 
self-evolving beings, 328-54 
self-remembering, 351-54 
smoking addiction, 89-91 
Principia Cybernetica Project, 182 
Priorities Review Staff, 60 
Procedural knowledge, 28, 213 
Procedural to declarative redescription, 
221 
Psychedelics, 273 
heroic dose, 275 
Psycho-Cybernetics, 38, 39, 52, 90 
algorithms for problem-solving, 39 
Psycho-technologies, 95, 116, 184, 187, 
200 
R 
Radical acceptance, 204, 272 
Radical uncertainty 
decision making, 294-95 
decision theory, 305 
meaning, 294 
Recursive self-improvement, 3, 11-13, 93 
meaning, 11 
model building, 146 
of cognition, 382-94 
seeing thinking as object, 1, 4, 27, 44 
stumbling on it, 40-42 
using analytical/rational thinking, 72 
writing, 97 
Reification, 374 
Right-hand path, 115, 210, 307, 334, 353 
Roddam, Mark, 235, 397 
report on program, 235 
Ross, Sara, 213, 214, 397 
Ruse, Michael, 64, 398 
Russell, Bertrand, 58, 77 
S 
Salthe, Stanley, 142, 147 
Scaffolding Program, 229-36 
School for Self Knowledge, 184, 189, 209 
Second Enlightenment, 17, 28, 29, 66, 394 
autism, 289 
First Planning Meeting, 226-29 
science, 219 
Second Enlightenment thinking. See 
Metasystemic cognition 
Self-evolving beings, 5, 27, 88, 159, 169, 
173, 256 
practices, 187, 272, 297, 328-54, See 
also Scaffolding Program 
Self-observation, 89, 114 
Self-organisation 
of 'the good', 239 
Self-remembering, 274 
practices, 351-54 
Self-scaffolding, 2, 231, 233, 321, 363, 388 
Shakespeare, William, 176 
Simulation hypotheses, 296-311 
Slavery to visual field 
dog, 19 
toddler, 20 
Steiner, Rudolf, 94 
Stewart, John 
publications, 398 
Superintelligence 
in AI, 11 
meaning, 15, 30 
Surplus attention, 180 
Systems science, 29 

INDEX 
 
405 
 
T 
Thatcher, Maggie, 21, 22, 23, 24, 45 
Thought forms, 3, 214 
Context Quadrant, 363-70 
Laske's Framework, 361-80 
Manual, 361-80 
overview articles, 362 
Process Quadrant, 370-74 
Relationship Quadrant, 374-77 
Systems Quadrant, 377-80 
Tolstoy, Leo, 94 
Tragedy of the commons, 104, 106 
V 
Vertical development, 16 
Kegan's model, 4 
levels are equilibria, 75, 357 
the Catch-22, 31 
Vertical market, 244-46 
horizontal market, 245 
W 
Whitehead, Alfred, 53, 77 
Wilber, Ken, 94, 115, 228, 230 
Wilding, Victoria, 229 
Wilson, David Sloan, 131, 237 
Wilson, Edward O, 61 
Wollersheim, Lawrence, 226 
Working on oneself, 45, 227 
freedom from predispositions, 16, 25, 
265 
practices, 328-54 
self-mastery, 38, 116, 334 
 
 

 
 
406 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

